---

title: Methods and apparatus for use of data object popularity measurements for improved quality of service perception in wireless broadcast systems
abstract: Systems, methods, device and apparatus are provided that allocate broadcast delivery capacity based oil popularity measurements associated with broadcasted data objects. By allocating broadcast delivery capacity based on popularity measurements, Quality of Service (QoS) perception can be improved by decreasing the number of reception failures, decreasing the data object access delay and/or decreasing the consumption of wireless device resources, such as battery power and processing capabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694016&OS=08694016&RS=08694016
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08694016
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061204
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 792 036 entitled POPULARITY MEASURE FOR IMPROVED QOS PERCEPTION filed Apr. 14 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosed aspects relate to wireless broadcast systems and more particularly to systems and methods for using data object popularity measurements to improve quality of service perception in wireless broadcast systems.

Large scale deployment of mass media services media objects over wireless communication networks may utilize broadcast multicast network capabilities. Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service MBMS and Broadcast and Multicast Service BCMCS as proposed by telecommunications specifications setting projects such as the 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 as well as MediaFLO technology as developed and available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. are targeted towards enabling multimedia content transfer to handheld communication devices over the wireless channel. The MediaFLO broadcast network provides services that allow transfer of media objects such as digital movie clips sports broadcasts video clips and music files. These media objects are delivered by a content provider to the MediaFLO network where they are stored until the scheduled transmission time.

An important characteristic of broadcast services is that the radio transmission cost is independent of the number of subscribers m the cell. This provides a resource efficient way of delivering services media objects to large user groups and hence improves the scalability of the network. However resource efficient broadcast multicast communication has some potential inefficiency. For example diverse channel conditions between the sender and its many receivers make the problem of providing reliable transfer a challenging task. Forward Error Correction FEC techniques would require redundancy levels sufficient to overcome transmission losses for the receiver in the worst ease radio channel. Hence system resources such as channel data rate channel code rate transmit power arid the like are essentially a function of the worst case radio channel.

Therefore a need exists to develop a method for intelligently allocating network resources such as throughput capacity bandwidth in broadcast multicast networks. Intelligent allocation of network resources would overcome current inefficiencies in allocating resources based on a worst case user radio channel.

The disclosed apparatus and methods provide for the use of data object popularity measurements to determine the allocation of wireless broadcast system capacity.

In particular devices methods apparatus computer readable media and processors are presented that provide for data object popularity measurements to be used in determining the allocation of broadcast system capacity such as throughput bandwidth. Popularity measurements may be used in conjunction with theoretical mathematical equations such as optimization problems to calculate capacity for data objects. Alternatively the popularity measurements may be used in conjunction with heuristic simulations to determine capacity for data objects. Allocated capacity may be reflected in adjustment to the delivery rate of data objects e.g. adjusting the code rate at which a data object is sent in a given period of time or allocated capacity may be reflected in adjustment to the amount of redundant information delivered in code blocks. By allocating capacity based on popularity measurements a perceived Quality of Service QoS is realized in the form of minimization of reception failures minimization of reception errors or defects minimization of data object access delays and minimization of the use of wireless device resources such as battery power and processing capabilities.

Optimal channel capacity assignment can result in a reduction of the number of reception failures in the broadcast system versus assigning channel capacity equally to all the data objects in the broadcast system. Such a capacity assignment approach provides for improvement of the perception of the Quality of Service QoS . Improvement of the QoS is perceived through a decrease in reception failures a decrease in access delay and a decrease in wireless device power consumption.

Data object popularity may be defined in terms of the utility or importance measure of the object amongst the users. Non uniformity in Internet based data object request patterns is a well documented phenomenon. Numerous studies such as described in Analysis of Educational Media Server Workloads Almeida et al. NOSSDAV 2001 and Characterizing User Access to Videos on the World Wide Web Acharya et al. ACM SPIE Multimedia Computing and Networking January 2000 have shown a skewed popularity of both data and web objects. Analysis of data media server workloads shows a high locality of accesses 14 30 of the files accessed on the server account for 90 of the data media sessions. Thus since a large fraction of users are interested in the most popular data objects improving the delivery performance for those objects improves the overall user experience.

In one aspect a method is provided for formulating delivery of data content in wireless broadcast system is defined. The method includes receiving a popularity measurement associated with at least one data object. The method additionally includes allocating wireless broadcast system capacity for delivery of at least one data object based on the popularity measurement and formulating the delivery of at least one data object according to the allocated wireless broadcast system capacity. The method may be applied to real time and non real time delivery of data content.

In some aspects the allocating of wireless broadcast system capacity may entail calculating capacity as a function of the popularity measurement such solving an optimization problem related to a broadcast system allocation objective. Alternatively allocating wireless broadcast system capacity may entail a heuristic simulation method. Once capacity has been allocated the method may implement allocation by adjusting the delivery rate e.g. increasing decreasing delivery repetitions in a given time period or adjusting the amount of redundant information in coded blocks.

In another aspect at least one processor is defined that is configured to perform the actions of receiving a popularity measurement associated with at least one data object allocating wireless broadcast system capacity for delivery of at least one data object based on tire popularity measurement and formulating the delivery of at least one data object according to the allocated wireless broadcast system capacity.

A related aspect is defined by a machine readable medium including instructions stored thereon. The instructions include a first set of instructions for receiving a popularity measurement associated with at least one data object a second set of instructions for allocating wireless broadcast system capacity for delivery of at least one data object based on the popularity measurement and a third set of instructions for formulating the delivery of at least one data object according to the allocated wireless broadcast system capacity.

Another aspect is defined by a wireless network device for allocating broadcast delivery capacity. The network device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The network device also includes a capacity allocation module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The capacity allocation module includes capacity allocation logic operable for receiving a popularity measurement associated with at least one data object and determining allocation of wireless network broadcast capacity for delivery of at least one data object based on the popularity measurement. The network may optionally include a delivery mechanism operable for delivering at least one data object according to the allocated wireless broadcast system capacity.

Alternatively the network device for allocating broadcast delivery capacity may be defined by a means for receiving a popularity measurement associated with at least one data object and a means for allocating wireless broadcast system capacity for delivery of at least one data object based on the popularity measurement.

Yet another aspect is defined in terms of a method for receiving data content at a wireless device. The method includes providing data object usage information to a network entity and receiving one or more broadcasted data objects that are allocated wireless broadcast system capacity based on a popularity measurement associated with the usage information. The received broadcasted data items may have a delivery rate associated with the popularity measurement or may have a redundant data quantity associated with the popularity measurement. The method may provide for a decrease in the mean number of failures data object access delay and or power consumption on the wireless device as a result of receiving the one or more broadcasted data objects that are allocated wireless broadcast system capacity based on a popularity measurement associated with the usage information.

In a related aspect at least one processor is defined that is configured to perform the actions of providing data object popularity information to a network entity and receiving one or more broadcasted data objects that are allocated wireless broadcast system capacity based on a popularity measurement associated with the popularity information.

Another related aspect is defined by a machine read able medium including instructions stored thereon. The instructions include a first set of instructions for providing data object popularity information to a network entity and a second set of instructions for receiving one or more broadcasted data objects that are allocated wireless broadcast system capacity based on a popularity measurement associated with the popularity information.

In yet another aspect a wireless communication device is defined that includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The wireless device also includes a data object usage reporting module stored in the memory and executable by the processor wherein the data object usage reporting module is operable for providing data object usage information to a network entity and a communications module operable by the processor and operable for receiving one or more broadcasted data objects that are allocated wireless broadcast system capacity based on a popularity measurement associated with the popularity information.

Further an aspect is defined for a wireless communication device that includes a means for providing data object popularity information to a network entity and a means for receiving one or more broadcasted data objects that are allocated wireless broadcast system capacity based on a popularity measurement associated with the popularity information.

As such the present aspects provide for the allocation of broadcast delivery capacity based on popularity measurements associated with broadcasted data objects. By allocating broadcast delivery capacity based on popularity measurements Quality of Service QoS perception can be improved by decreasing the mean number of reception failures decreasing the data object access delay and or decreasing tire consumption of wireless device resources such as battery power and processing capabilities.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The data delivery system includes a capacity allocation module that is operable to allocate broadcast network capacity based on data object popularity measurements . The data delivery system may obtain popularity measurements otherwise referred to as popularity metrics utility measurements metrics importance measurements metrics and the like from any available source. For example popularity measurements may be obtained from subscription data polling users on a predetermined or random basis content providers or any other service or entity that has access to data object popularity data. The means by which popularity measurements are obtained and the form in which popularity measurements are presented are inconsequential to the overall inventive concepts herein disclosed. Additionally it should be noted that a popularity measurement may apply to a single data object or file or the popularity measurement may apply to a group or set of more than one data object.

The capacity allocation module may include capacity allocation logic that is operable to determine allocation of broadcast network capacity based on popularity measurements . The capacity allocation logic relies on the available delivery capacity e.g. available bandwidth and the popularity measurements to determine an optimal e.g. popularity specific capacity allocation for at least one data object or one or more sets of data objects hi one aspect the capacity allocation logic may implement theoretical equations to calculate all optimal capacity allocation for data objects based on popularity measurements . A detailed example of theoretical calculations of allocated object capacities based on popularity measurements is presented infra. In other aspects the capacity allocation logic may implement ad hoc heuristic simulations optimizations to derive an optimal capacity allocation value for each data object or each group of data objects.

The data delivery system also includes a delivery mechanism that is operable for distributing the data objects across wireless network according to the optimal capacity allocation. As previously noted the distribution mechanism may reside in the same network device as the capacity allocation module or in alternate aspects the delivery mechanism may reside in a separate network device.

The network device may include computer platform operable to transmit and receive data across wireless network and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform may include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also may include a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device.

The computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the network device as well as between the network device and a wireless network . In this regard in some aspects communications module may serve as the delivery mechanism shown in that is operable for distributing the data objects across wireless network in accordance with the optimal capacity allocation. The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection.

The memory may include one or more data objects content that have been provided to the network device by one or more content providers . The data objects may be delivered to network device by wireless or wired communication or any other feasible means of content delivery. As previously noted in alternate aspects data content may be stored in a separate network device or server distinct from but in communication with network device . The memory may also include popularity measurements that have been provided to the network device such as by one or more content providers or subscription services. Alternatively the popularity measurement may be calculated or aggregated at the network device by polling various service providers subscription services or data content users to determine the popularity or importance of a data object or group of data objects. It should be noted that any acceptable means may be used to determine the popularity measurement and as such popularity data may be included from any selected data object sources and or data object users. The popularity measurements may be delivered to network device by wireless or wired communication or any other feasible means of delivery. As previously noted in alternate aspects popularity measurements may be stored in a separate network device or server distinct from but in network communication with network device .

The memory of network device includes capacity allocation module that is operable to allocate broadcast network capacity based on data object popularity measurements . The capacity allocation module may include capacity allocation logic that is operable to determine allocation of broadcast network capacity based on popularity measurements . The capacity allocation logic relies on the available delivery capacity e.g. available bandwidth and the popularity measurements to determine an optimal e.g. popularity specific capacity allocation for at least one data object or one or more sets of data objects associated with a broadcast transmission. In one aspect the capacity allocation logic may implement theoretical equations to calculate an optimal capacity allocation for data objects in a transmission based on popularity measurements . In other aspects the capacity allocation logic may implement ad hoc heuristic simulations optimizations to derive an optimal capacity allocation value for one or more data objects or one or more groups of data objects in a transmission.

Referring to according to one aspect a block diagram represents a wireless communication device operable to receive broadcast transmissions having one or more data objects assigned allocated delivery capacity based on popularity measurements. The wireless device may include any type of computerized wireless device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The apparatus and method for receiving broadcast transmissions can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device of wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards wireless access terminals or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless device includes computer platform that can receive data transmitted across wireless network receive and execute routines and applications and optionally display data transmitted from wireless network device connected to wireless network . Computer platform includes a memory memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as broadcast multicast player module stored in the memory of the wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on wireless network . For example in one aspect the processing engine may include a power management subsystem operable for managing the power consumption of power battery module . In some aspects optimal capacity allocation may result in minimization of the data object access delay which corresponds to less power consumption at the wireless device. Access delay is defined as the amount of time a user has to wait to receive a requested data object. In other aspects the processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher physical layer link layer call processing layer main control remote procedure music audio handset diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB video services camera camcorder interface and associated display drivers multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc. along with other functionality applications. It should be noted that the subsystems could include any data or data service operable on a wireless device which embody the device s operational functionality.

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless device as well as between the wireless device and the wireless network . For example the communications module is operable to receive one or more data objects from data delivery system or network device . The communication module may include the requisite hard ware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection including wireless signal transmit receive modulation and demodulation components.

The memory may store one or more data objects received from network delivery system or network device and which have been allocated a predetermined optimal delivery capacity based on popularity measurements. In alternate aspects the wireless device may execute e.g. play data objects without storing the data object on the wireless device. The memory may also store a data media player module operable for playing the data objects that have been received from network delivery system or network device .

The memory may additionally store a data content usage reporting module operable for providing data object usage information that is communicated to a network entity associated with data delivery system . In turn the network entity uses the data object usage information to compile popularity measurements for one or more data objects. The data content usage reporting module may be configured to provide data object usage information to the network entity on a predetermined schedule or the network entity may poll the wireless device to communicate the data object usage information on an as needed basis. The data object usage information may include but is hot limited to the number of times a data object is downloaded and or accessed the time s day that a data object is downloaded and or accessed or the like.

Additionally wireless device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provides for user input to activate an application on the communication device. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. For example one or more output mechanisms may be operable to present data objects to a user of the device.

At Event popularity measurements are obtained related to the received data object s or a group of data objects. Popularity measurements may be derived from information provided by subscription services content providers or data object users. Additionally popularity measurements may be calculated or otherwise derived within the data delivery system e.g. at central distribution point operation center or popularity measurements may be derived or otherwise calculated prior to being communicated to the data delivery system such as at a subscription service or at a content provider. Popularity measurements may be updated on a predetermined scheduled or they may be continuously updated to provide for instantaneous accuracy of popularity information. In addition the popularity measurement may define the user s preference for a given data object or group of data objects or the popularity measurement may define the importance for a given data object or group of data objects.

At Event wireless broadcast system capacity is allocated to the data object or group of data objects based on the popularity measurement associated with the data object or group of data objects. In some aspects allocating broadcast system capacity may further include 1 determining a delivery capacity for a transmission 2 determining a predetermined identity and number of data objects to include in the transmission and 3 allocating the given delivery capacity among the predetermined objects based on popularity measurements.

In one aspect theoretical equations are applied to calculate a capacity value for the data object or group of data objects based on the popularity measurement. The capacity value is in relation to the available or residual capacity currently available In the broadcast network. Allocation of optimal capacity may be a result of optimizing mean reception failures mean access failures or any other broadcast objective. In alternate aspects in ad hoe heuristic simulation may be applied to derive a capacity value.

At Event the data object or group of data objects are formulated for delivery broadcasted according to tire optimal capacity allocation based on the popularity measurement. As previously noted optimal capacity allocation may result in minimization optimization of the mean number of reception failures the mean access delay time and or battery power consumption at the wireless device.

At Event the wireless device receives one or more broadcasted data objects that have been allocated wireless broadcast system capacity based on a popularity measurement that has formed based at least in part on the data object usage Information provided by the wireless device. In one aspect receiving the one or more broadcasted data objects includes receiving one or more broadcasted objects that have a delivery rate associated with the popularity measurement. In another aspect receiving the one or more broadcasted data objects includes receiving one or more broadcasted objects that a redundant data quantity associated with the popularity measurement. The received broadcasted data objects may be real time broadcasted or non real time broadcasted data objects.

At Event a wireless device user accesses or otherwise plays one of the one or more received data objects to consume the data object at the wireless device. Accessing the data object will constitute an event that may be recorded in a data content usage log which subsequently may form the data content usage information that is conveyed to the network entity.

The method described in relation to may result in a decrease in the number of perceived reception failures occurring at the wireless device and or a decrease in the access delay in receiving downloading the data object s and or a decrease in power consumption.

The following provides one hypothetical example of using theoretical equations to determine a capacity allocation value for a data object or group of data objects based on a popularity measurement metric associated with the data object s . The equations demonstrated herein are by way of example only and should not be viewed as limiting. Other theoretical equations may also be used to determine capacity allocation based on popularity measurements without departing from the aspects herein disclosed. As noted previously determining capacity allocation based on popularity measurements is not limited to use of theoretical equations. The determination of capacity allocation based on popularity measurements may also be performed by any other known method such as ad hoc heuristic simulation or the like.

In the hypothetical example herein described a broadcast system delivers data objects with differing frequencies in accordance with a predetermined transmission schedule such that the mean number of fails in the broadcast system is minimized. A predetermined transmission schedule may be defined as the number of data objects delivered in a predetermined time or bandwidth. The mean number of fails may be defined as the total number of instances in which a given object is not received by a device that is supposed to receive the transmitted object. In such a system according to the described aspects the schedule can emphasize the most popular objects and de emphasize the less popular objects. In addition to providing an improved perception of service by minimizing the number of instances an object is not reliably received at a wireless device this scheme provides a model for allocating system capacity e.g. throughput and or bandwidth and or channel capacity for an object or set of objects as a function of the object s popularity utility measure.

Thus object z is transmitted every L ECB size PLP size Cunits of time within a delivery time window. Given a fixed delivery time window of size T the number of iterations repetitions corresponding to object i can be defined as 

For the purposes of this hypothetical example assume that the transmissions of the erasure control block are independent and as such erasures introduced by the communication channel are not correlated across erasure control blocks. Thus given the number of iterations mfor object i of length L the probability that object i is not successfully received at a wireless device is given as 

Additionally for the purpose of this hypothetical the broadcast system includes N number of data objects whose transmission windows overlap in time R is the total number of broadcast system users and pis the object access probability e.g. an estimate of the fraction of users receiving object i . Given the object access probability p the capacity allocation module can determine the optimal fraction of bandwidth that should be allocated to each object.

Hence for an optimization problem having the objective of minimizing the mean number of failures channel capacity Cto be allocated to object i can be determined by solving the following optimization problem 

C residual channel capacity dedicated for broadcast transmissions. Residual channel capacity is defined as the available capacity after considering the capacity consumption attributed to real time streaming traffic.

The optimization problem may be solved using a predetermined estimator equation. In the illustrated example the optimization problem is solved using the Lagrange multiplier method. In which the Lagrange multiplier method is below 

The optimal capacity assignment should satisfy equations 7 and 8 . Thus solving the equation for the channel capacity to be allocated to object i C results in 

Thus in the illustrated hypothetical example of capacity allocation higher capacity is reserved for data objects with higher user probability. If all of the data objects have equal length and equal access probabilities then equation 9 reduces to 

Thus optimal channel allocation according to the described aspects results in a reduction of the number of reception failures in the broadcast system versus assigning equal capacity allocation to all data objects in the system. The optimal capacity allocation based on popularity measure therefore provides a mechanism for improving perception of the quality of service QoS by scaling object specific QoS to the object popularity measurement.

In addition to minimizing the number of reception failures experienced by a broadcast system popularity measurements may be used to minimize the mean access delay. Access delay is defined as the amount of time a user has to wait to receive a data object such as a video file an audio file or the like. By minimizing access delay the time in which the wireless device is awake and listening to receive a broadcast and thus consuming power is lessened thus battery life is preserved. The following theoretical equations illustrate the concept of using popularity measurements to minimize access delay.

Assume for the purposes of this example that consecutive occurrences of a data object i are equally spaced and let sdefine the spacing for object i . Additionally assume uniform distribution of wireless device wake up or request over time thus the mean access time for object i is s 2. The popularity measure for object i is defined as wand the overall number of objects is defined as N. Thus the overall mean access time t is defined as 

If all the objects are of identical length then using the result from optimization equation 6 minimum overall mean access delay is achieved when the spacing of each segment is inversely proportional to the square root of the popularity of the data object.

If the data objects are of varying length l then generalization of Equation 15 results in the following condition on the spacing of the data objects.

As follows assume a segment length of l and define e l as the probability that the data object is received with unrecoverable losses. Thus the expected number of consecutive instances with unrecoverable losses is defined as e l 1 e l . Thus mean object access delay may be expressed as 

If C is the total capacity and Cis the capacity assigned to object i then s l C. Thus the optimization problem can be stated as 

Thus according to this example as defined by Equation 19 mean access delay is minimized when the spacing between consecutive instances of a data object is directly proportional to the square root of the length of the object and inversely proportional to the square root of the popularity measurement of the object.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed In the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally ail or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus the described aspects provide for systems methods device and apparatus that provide for the allocation of broadcast delivery capacity based on popularity measurements associated with broadcasted data objects. By allocating broadcast delivery capacity based on popularity measurements Quality of Service QoS perception can be improved by decreasing the mean number of reception failures decreasing the data object access delay and or decreasing the consumption of wireless device resources such as battery power and processing capabilities.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they axe used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

