---

title: Localizer cable fault analyzer
abstract: A Localizer cable fault analyzer that memorizes which antenna in a Localizer antenna array caused a fault. The Localizer equipment monitors the antenna transmit and monitor cables for continuity using a DC voltage. The present invention senses the voltage drop on the antenna circuit when a fault occurs and causes an indicator device to signal the presence of the fault in that particular antenna circuit. The indicator device continues to signal the presence of a fault until a reset switch is activated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07592816&OS=07592816&RS=07592816
owner: Federal Aviation Administration
number: 07592816
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060808
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 706 758 filed on Aug. 10 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention may be made or used by or for the Government of the United States without the payment of any royalties thereon.

Localizer antenna arrays are provided at the end of major runways at major airports. Their correct operation is critical to air traffic safety. The present invention relates to the detection of cable faults in the Localizer antenna array.

The Localizer is part of the Instrument Landing System ILS . The ILS is a ground based precision approach system that provides course and vertical guidance to landing aircraft. The Localizer is the component of the ILS that provides course guidance to the runway. The Localizer is located at the end of the runway. The Localizer equipment has 8 14 or 20 antenna elements wired in an array. The number of antennas in the array depends on whether the airport has close or parallel runways or if there are building obstructions near the runways. In these cases the radiated signal pattern must be narrowed. Increasing the number of antennas in the array narrows the radiated signal pattern. All the proper signals have to be radiated from all the antennas to give a pilot the correct left to right indication on his instruments. A fault in the cable feeding an antenna will cause the Localizer system to shut down and the pilot will lose the Localizer signal that could possibly result in an unsafe condition during final approach to landing.

The Localizer equipment generates a DC voltage that is present at all times in all the antenna lines in the antenna array. When the Localizer equipment is operating normally a cable fault card in the equipment generates an audio tone and sends it back to the Localizer equipment shelter. When a cable fault occurs the DC voltage on that particular antenna line goes to zero and the cable fault card has group of circuits that detect this condition. When the DC voltage goes to zero on any of the antenna lines the audio tone is inhibited and the Localizer monitor generates a cable fault alarm. However the Localizer monitor does not identify which antenna in the array caused the fault.

Troubleshooting to find the fault requires the technician to measure voltages at a test point with a voltmeter to determine which antenna or feed line is has the fault which caused the Localizer system to shut down. The problem is compounded if the fault is intermittent. An intermittent fault can take hours or even days to troubleshoot. The technician has to be on the proper test point and actually see the voltage drop with a voltmeter to identify the antenna. The technician must start at one end of the antenna array and check every connector. In a 20 element antenna array there are 80 connectors. There have been instances where an antenna array was completely recabled and upon the completion the problem was still present.

The present invention is capable of memorizing which antenna in the Localizer antenna array caused a fault. The Localizer equipment monitors the antenna transmit and monitor cables for continuity using a DC voltage. This DC voltage is present along with RF signals to and from all the antennas in the antenna array. If there is an open or short circuit condition or a faulty antenna the DC voltage goes to zero and the Localizer equipment generates a cable fault alarm. The present invention connects to the Localizer equipment before the circuitry that generates the cable fault alarm.

The present invention comprises 20 separate detection and capture circuits for monitoring up to 20 antennas in a Localizer antenna array. Each detection and capture circuit comprises a buffer circuit coupled to a digital latch circuit and an indicator device such as a light emitting diode LED light bulb breaker button etc. When connected to the Localizer equipment the present invention senses the voltage drop on the antenna circuit when a fault occurs and causes the indicator device to signal the occurrence of the fault in that particular antenna circuit. The indicator device continues to signal the occurrence of a fault until a reset switch is activated.

The present invention is a diagnostic Localizer cable fault analyzer that automatically detects and memorizes which antenna in a Localizer antenna array has caused a fault. The present invention allows troubleshooting to be focused on the particular antenna and related transmit and monitor cables causing the fault. This results in shortened outage times and allows the Localizer system to be returned to service faster.

The existing Localizer equipment in the field typically has 8 14 or 20 antennas wired in pairs. Referring to the present invention includes a separate detection and capture circuit to monitor each respective antenna in the Localizer antenna array to detect and memorize which antenna in the Localizer antenna array caused a fault. For example an 8 antenna Localizer antenna array would require 8 detection and capture circuits a 14 antenna Localizer antenna array would require 14 detection and capture circuits and a 20 antenna Localizer antenna array would require 20 detection and capture circuits. is a schematic diagram of an example embodiment of the present invention configured for use on a 20 antenna Localizer antenna array.

The example detection and capture circuit in may include a light emitting diode LED to act as an indicator device to indicate that a fault has been detected. If the LED lights during a detection and capture operation it would indicate that a fault has occurred in the antenna associated with that detection and capture circuit. Any other type of indicator such as a light bulb breaker button etc. may also be used as an indicator device.

The example detection and capture circuit depicted in uses a digital latching circuit comprising a pair of cross coupled NAND gates. One input i.e. upper to the latching circuit is coupled to the common terminal of a reset switch which can be selected to a normally open NO terminal to apply ground to reset the latch or alternatively selected to a normally closed NC terminal to apply a predetermined voltage V through a resistor to bias the latch into the select and capture mode. An opposite i.e. lower input to the latching circuit is coupled to a suitable monitoring point on the Localizer equipment. A buffer circuit is included between the input to the latching circuit and the monitoring point on the Localizer equipment. The buffer circuit prevents the present invention from causing alarms in the Localizer equipment.

In operation the Localizer equipment monitors the antenna transmit and monitor cables for continuity using a DC voltage. This DC voltage is present on the cables along with the RF signals to and from all the antennas. If there is an open or short circuit or a faulty antenna the DC voltage goes to zero and the Localizer equipment generates a cable alarm. The present invention connects to the Localizer equipment before the circuitry that generates the cable fault alarm. When the DC voltage at the monitoring point on the Localizer equipment goes to zero i.e. ground the LED instantly lights and stays lit to indicate that a fault has been detected in the antenna associate with that particular LED. The LED can be extinguished using the reset switch .

The present invention can be connected on the fly while the Localizer is transmitting without interfering with the Localizer s operation. Also the present invention may remain connected to the Localizer for extended periods and act as a long term monitor. With this long term monitoring capability the present invention will immediately detect and report an intermittent cable fault. The present invention can also be used proactively to rule out an antenna array if a cable fault occurs and no LEDs light.

As mentioned previously typical pre existing Localizers have 8 14 or 20 antennas wired in pairs. While three separate 8 14 and 20 antenna versions of the present may be constructed it is more advantages to construct a single twenty antenna version of the present invention which can be used to fault analyze any of the 8 14 or 20 antenna Localizers. is a schematic diagram for a 20 antenna version of the present invention.

When a 20 antenna version of the present invention is connected to diagnose an 8 antenna Localizer such as a Wilcox Mark 1F it is best to inhibit the LEDs of any of the extra unused circuits to prevent confusion and save battery power. shows a block diagram of an example LED inhibiting circuit where a switch can be selected to disable LEDs through when fault analyzing an 8 antenna localizer or alternatively enable LEDs through when fault analyzing a 14 or 20 antenna such as a Wilcox Thales Mark 20 20A. This example configuration is battery powered allowing portability and includes a main power switch . When the power switch is closed buffer device U and latch device U receive steady power.

The following is a parts list for construction a 20 antenna example embodiment of the present invention 

4 ea 8 pan head sheet metal screw. When completed discard the 4 screws supplied with the metal enclosure and force these into the 4 cover mounting holes.

1 ea support clamp size diameter ACE Hardware part CLC 4. Used to secure the Mark 1F harness to the case so it won t get lost.

Case layouts circuit board layouts and photographs of the example embodiment of the present invention are included. There is a manufactured circuit card See parts list above that may dictate the size of the sheet metal case and the circuit card must be mounted and connected in the case as described below to insure correct operation of this embodiment of the present invention and to prevent damage to the Localizer equipment.

Drawings of all sides of the box are included in . These figures may be scanned resized as desired and printed out. Cut around the border and tape the drawings to the metal case. Mark with a scribe then drill and de burr all holes and cut all openings in the case. The two slots on the right hand side need to be drilled first and filed to size. Suggest using a 9 pin sub D connector to check the fit to prevent filing too far. The slot for the 20 pin header also needs to be cut here.

One hard part is to cosmetically get the 20 LEDs lined up in a straight double row. One way is to mark the holes on the drawing drill a small hole and then drill a bigger hole using a 0.156 drill bit. A better method is to take a piece of breadboard wide enough to reach from the handle to the LED holes. Mount it under the handle then mark off 20 holes and use the breadboard for a drill guide for a 0.060 drill bit or smaller followed by a 0.156 bit. Install the top handle and all three switches. The RESET switch may have a plastic tab that needs to be filed off so it will sit flush. Install the sub D connector socket on the right side using two each 4 40 screws with flat split and hex nut.

The artwork for the front side of the circuit card is shown in with the IC positions resistor and all wire connection identifiers added in. Orientation is with part number 200306 SE near the bottom right. is a picture of the finished circuit card. All pin locations are marked with a white dot.

Install all 14 ICs and the resistor on the circuit card. Mount all the components of the front side of the card. There are two different types of ICs on the board ten ICs having 14 pins and four having 16 pins. The 16 pin ICs go on the outside edges next to the inputs. All of the 14 pin ICs line up in the center next to the outputs. Verify the notch at pin 1 on each IC is in accordance with . After all the components have been soldered clean the board with alcohol and set it aside.

LED test port. Mount the 20 pin header Allied part no. 512 2630 on the breadboard in the location shown in with the pins coming through the solder pad side. Solder a piece of bus wire around all 20 pins and solder to the ground lug in the position shown in . Mount the breadboard on the inside of the analyzer with the 20 pin header protruding through the slot using four each 4 40 screws with flat split and hex nut.

All input wires switch wires output LED wires pass through the backside and solder to the front side of the circuit card. When complete the circuit card is mounted in the enclosure with the component side showing and all the wires gathered and hidden behind the circuit card. as shown in .

D cell battery holder. Hold the end with the wires and using a pair of dikes snip some plastic from the slot at the end of the center separation and pass the red lead through to the negative compartment. Loosely mount the plastic case to the analyzer with four each 4 40 machine screws. Mark the case then remove it and drill a hole in the plastic in the same place as the hole in the analyzer box. Pass both black and red leads through the hole to the inside of the case. Mount the battery holder to the case with a machine screw flat washer flat split and hex nut. Place a ground lug on the inside of the analyzer case under the flat washer on one of the screws. On the reverse side slip a small one inch long piece of heat shrink over the leads and up through the hole and shrink to prevent the leads from shorting to the case. Solder the black lead to the ground lug and solder the red lead to one of the POWER switch terminals.

POWER switch. From the second terminal solder an eight inch 22 gauge stranded wire to the Vpad on the circuit card. Solder a second four inch wire from the same switch terminal to one terminal on the 14 20 antenna Mark 20 8 antenna Mark 1F switch. See 

14 20 antenna Mark 20 8 antenna Mark 1F switch. Solder an eight inch red 22 gauge stranded wire from the other terminal to the 14 20 antenna 8 antenna pad on the circuit card. Position this switch on the analyzer where the ON position is pointing to the 14 20 antenna Mark 20 position.

RESET switch. This is a momentary contact push button switch that grounds all of the input pins with the RESET function. Solder a black wire from one terminal of the switch to a ground lug. Solder a yellow eight inch 22 gauge stranded wire to the other terminal and to the RESET pad on the circuit board. See . 

Ground wire. Cut a four foot length of black 12 gauge stranded wire. Crimp and solder one end to a solder lug yellow . Mount this lug under one of the screws on the handle. Pass the other end of the wire completely through the rubber grommet and crimp remove the black plastic insulators from the clip before soldering and be sure to put one over the wire before crimping and solder the ground clip Mouser part 548 46A B to the other end. Connect an eight inch piece of 22 gauge black wire from a ground lug to the GND pad near the top left of the circuit card. See . 

Ribbon cable installation. Cut a four foot length of 20 wire flat ribbon cable. On one end separate all wires six inches back and strip from the end. Beginning with wire 1 marked with either a red or black stripe solder to the circuit board as follows. Pass the wires through the back and solder to the front of the circuit board. Notice each side uses every other wire i.e. 

Pass the other end of the ribbon cable through the rubber grommet on the right side of the analyzer box then slip a Velcro cable tie over the end of the cable. Take a black marker and mark UP on both sides of the ribbon cable pointing to wire 1 about two inches from the end. Next install a UDC connector to the end of the ribbon cable. Position the cable inside the connector and then put it in a vise and force the connector together. Fold the ribbon cable back over the connector and snap the strain relief on the connector. See . 

For the 8 antenna Mark 1E F function cut eight 22 gauge stranded cables eight inches in length. Strip and solder one end to pads on the top row on the 90 input side. Terminate each wire with a female pin and then insert into holes on the sub D connector on the right side of the analyzer. Verify that the sub D pins connect to pads on the 90 input side. See . 

Now the LED wires can be soldered. The LED black wire locations are numbered on the circuit card drawings . As shown in all LED wires pass through the backside of the circuit board and solder to the front. The output portion from the center of the circuit card is shown in . The LED red wires solder to the pads as shown.

Start with the 1 90 and solder the black 90 LED outputs first the red 90s then the red 150s and then the black 150s. After the LED leads are soldered solder the VCC GND RESET and Mark 20 14 20 antenna Mark 1F 8 antenna switch wires from the chassis then mount the circuit card into the enclosure using four 6 32 2 screws. On the back install 1 and 0.5 Teflon spacers on each screw then the circuit card and then a flat split and hex nut. See . Clean the front side of the circuit card with alcohol.

Mount the four rubber feet on the bottom of the case using four 4 40 screws with flat split and hex nut. One may put a flat washer under the screw before going through the rubber feet. Assemble the case using four 8 sheet metal screws.

8 antenna Mark 1E F cable instructions Cut eight lengths of 22 gauge stranded wire three feet long. Crimp and solder one end to a red spade terminal. Attach a wire number on each terminal. Cover each terminal with a half inch length of inch clear heat shrink to protect the number. Insert all eight wires into a 32 inch long inch heat shrink. Terminate the other end of the wires with a male end of a 9 pin sub D connector plug and insert the wires into the proper holes on the D connector. Slip a Velcro tie over harness at the spade lug end then slide to the sub D connector end. Roll up the harness and attach it to the case with a clip. See . 

Validation. Connect a 20 pin connector to the LED test port and apply power. Verify the 14 20 antenna Mark 20 8 antenna Mark 1F switch is in the 14 20 antenna Mark 20 position. This tests the IDC connector ribbon cable inner connections logic gates and LEDs. If all the LEDs light the unit is validated and ready for use.

