---

title: Method and system for providing network based transaction metrics
abstract: An approach is provided for metrics data collection for business transactions. An online activity (e.g., Application Programming Interface (API) call) associated with a business flow is identified. It is determined whether the online activity is a part of a transaction, wherein the transaction is defined according to a business rule. Status of the transaction is updated if the online activity is a part of the transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031903&OS=09031903&RS=09031903
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09031903
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060731
---
Given the volume of commerce transacted over the global Internet online service providers need to ensure that business transactions are accurately captured and reported. Traditionally metrics of an online service provider have been collected and calculated by tracking the number of clicks on certain web pages or by counting internal function calls. However for a complicated business transaction these methods lack accuracy in that not all clicks or function calls can be attributable to a true transaction. Namely the click can simply be an action that does not result in a completed transaction resulting in a false positive of a business transaction.

Therefore there is a need for an approach that can accurately determine occurrences of true business transactions.

An apparatus method and software for providing accurate metrics of transactions are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Although the various embodiments of the present invention are described with respect to Application Programming Interface API calls it is contemplated that these embodiments have applicability to other equivalent software interfaces and operations.

The metrics module generates metrics logs and places them in multiple message queues which can enable parallel processing of the logs. The queues feed the information to a data processor for messaging and or converting raw data associated with the collected metrics the resultant data is stored in a metrics database . It is contemplated that the system enables gathering of data from different sources and database tables in which the collected data is processed and stored the metrics database for presentation. In terms of history and persistence the metrics database can store current interactions as well as a predetermined duration worth of interactions e.g. 12 months .

In one embodiment the data stored within the metrics database are made available for presentation via an online portal denoted as metrics portal . Additionally a billing and reporting system can retrieve metrics information within the metrics database for generating invoices and or reports. Further a metrics log is maintained by the data processor and is accessible to readers which are coupled to the queues .

To provide network based metrics tracking the system provides the following functions business transaction logic metrics collection and processing which can be based on Application Programming Interface API calls data processing metrics storage and metrics presentation . As mentioned the business transaction logic applies a predefined set of rules or conditions e.g. business rules to determine occurrence of a transaction. The term business rule refers to defining rules according to business behavior or procedure in which the resultant data is captured in real time. For example a business rule can specify that only activities involving a certain dollar amount are tracked according to one duration and activities of a different dollar amount are tracked based on another duration.

As used herein the term online transaction is distinct from online activity. An activity in an exemplary embodiment can be an API call. A transaction can be a real business transaction made up of one of more activities e.g. one or more API calls. In an exemplary embodiment a list of pre defined transactions is maintained. These transactions can be attributed with a real business meaning and be logged for real time and future reporting. For example a business transaction can involve one or more API calls in which the transaction starts with the first API call and ends with the last API call. Additionally transactions can be related e.g. there could be a parent transaction and a child transaction.

With respect to the data processing function the specific operation of this function depends on the application and can include filtering messaging formatting retrieval and correlation with other information etc.

Thereafter the metrics process determines whether the transaction is completed step the transaction as well as the duration of the transaction are logged as in step . If the transaction is not complete then the transaction is simply logged step .

With respect to determining whether the activity is associated with a transaction as determined in step the process proceeds to log the activity as in step if the activity does not correspond to any transaction.

In certain embodiments the metrics process or transaction tracking is an asynchronous process. That is the metrics process can be a background process and is independent from the business flow i.e. a series of transactions and or activities supporting a business objective or function. Hence the business transaction need not wait for the metrics log to finish to move on to the next step thereby not impacting the execution and performance of the business flow. The metrics logs are sent to multiple message queues parallel processing then the data processor processes the message and saves them to the metrics database steps and .

In step the data within the metrics database can be retrieved by a billing and or reporting application. Alternatively the data is made accessible by the metrics portal as explained earlier.

The metrics portal can thus provide statistical information and graphical representations of a user s usage on the portal thereby permitting viewing of information gauging performance and measuring business activity. To obtain account information a customer profile database not shown can be utilized. The customer profile database can include for example a customer profile a hierarchy of subscriptions and subscribers. The customer profile database can be used to relate each transaction and activity on the portal to the user and the user s associated organization. Also a user group hierarchy provides for the ability to categorize all related transactions and activities under each level of the hierarchy.

As shown in the site map of the metrics portal provides for the following functions download metrics report view metrics by category and view total user activities . The metrics portal provides in an exemplary embodiment a graphical user interface GUI to support the above functions as next described.

With this GUI the combination of the user s login ID and a list of the user s customers provides for restricting the data made available to the user. Namely only the metrics relevant to the customers of the logged in user are presented. The users can download the metrics report in any number of formats e.g. MICROSOFT EXCEL.

Under the scenario of once the user selects the time period customer s and type of report and requests a download the metrics portal gathers and formats all the requested data. Then the metrics portal can then send the file to a pre designated server not shown which can then make the file available online and send a notification e.g. via email to the user along with a Uniform Resource Locator URL address of the file. This URL allows the user to view the downloaded file and to save it.

In addition a graph can be presented to reflect the selected report. Textbox provides for selection of the type of graph such as a bar graph pie chart etc.

Furthermore table can enumerate online billing information. In this example the online service relates to telephony services thus the table includes the following fields subscriber date Login ID Employee Type View Bill View Bill Item Detail View Bill Report View Bill Call Detail View EO Bill Bill Inquiry Lookup TN Telephone Number and Total.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the metrics portal provides a transaction view or report or an activity view. A transaction is a specific action that is characterized by a defined sequence of steps the user performs on the portal to complete the action. An activity is the set of flowthrough or legacy API calls the system generates to process the transaction the user completes on the portal . Generally the specific sequence of steps required to perform a transaction on the portal remain the same regardless of the legacy systems or geographic area the transaction involves. Conversely the set of flowthrough or legacy API calls the activity requires to execute the transaction will vary according to the legacy system and geographic area the transaction involves. Because there is a defined sequence of steps involved in each transaction in contrast to the activities that execute the transaction the transaction view or report is a more accurate measure of portal activity work functionality and productivity.

In addition to the GUIs and the metrics portal can provide a report based on a work group hierarchy whereby the workgroups can be represented in a condensed view and exploded upon selection to reveal members of the selected workgroup. All activities and or transactions corresponding to members of the selected workgroup will be provided in the report.

Furthermore the metrics portal can list predefined reports for selection by the user. These predefined reports can include reports on the active customer users and active online service provider representative users.

The processes described herein for providing metrics tracking may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to one embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the present invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the present invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that flow. The specification and the drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

