---

title: Audio and video transmission and receiving system
abstract: A system of distributing video and/or audio information employs digital signal processing to achieve high rates of data compression. The compressed and encoded audio and/or video information is sent over standard telephone, cable or satellite broadcast channels to a receiver specified by a subscriber of the service, preferably in less than real time, for later playback and optional recording on standard audio and/or video tape.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07730512&OS=07730512&RS=07730512
owner: Acacia Media Technologies Corporation
number: 07730512
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060428
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 274 242 filed Oct. 17 2002 now abandoned which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 651 115 filed Aug. 30 2000 now abandoned which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 120 452 filed Jul. 23 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 144 702 which is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 08 630 590 filed Apr. 10 1996 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 002 720 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 08 133 982 filed Oct. 8 1993 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 550 863 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 07 862 508 filed Apr. 2 1992 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 253 275 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 07 637 562 filed Jan. 7 1991 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 132 992 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in full herein.

The present invention relates generally to an audio and video transmission and receiving system and more specifically to such a system in which the user controls the access and the playback operations of selected material.

At the present time only a video cassette recorder VCR or a laser disk player LDP allow a viewer to enjoy control over selection of particular audio video material. Using either a VCR or an LDP requires the viewer to obtain a video tape either by rental or by purchase. Remote accessing of the material has not yet been integrated into an efficient system.

Several designs have been developed which provide the viewer with more convenient means of accessing material. One such design is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 506 387 issued to Walter. The Walter patent discloses a fully dedicated multi conductor optical cable system that is wired to the viewer s premises. While the system affords the viewer some control over accessing the material it requires that a location designated by the viewer be wired with a dedicated cable. The Walter system further requires the viewer be at that location for both ordering and viewing the audio video material.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 890 320 issued to Monslow describes a system which broadcasts viewer selected material to a viewer at a prescribed time. This system is limited in that it requires multiple viewers in multiple locations to view the audio video material at the time it is broadcast rather than allowing each viewer to choose his or her own viewing time. The system disclosed in Monslow also does not allow for the stop pause and multiple viewing functions of existing VCR technology.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 590 516 issued to Abraham discloses a system that uses a dedicated signal path rather than multiple common carriers to transmit audio video programming. The receiver has no storage capability. The system provides for only display functions which limits viewing to the time at which the material is ordered. Like Monslow the Abraham system does not allow for the stop pause and multiple viewing functions of existing VCR technology.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 963 995 issued to Lang discloses an audio video transceiver with the capability of editing and or copying from one video tape to another using only a single tape deck. Lang does not disclose a system with one or more libraries wherein a plurality of system subscribers may access information stored in the film and tape library or libraries and play back the selected information at a time and place selected by the subscriber.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a user with the capability of accessing audio video material by integrating both accessing and playback controls into a system that can use multiple existing communications channels.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a picture and sound transmission system which allows the user to remotely select audio video material from any location that has either telephone service or a computer.

A still further object of the present invention is to provide a picture and sound transmission system wherein the selected audio video material is sent over any one of several existing communication channels in a fraction of real time to any location chosen by the user that has a specified receiver.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a picture an sound transmission system wherein the user may play back the selected audio video material at any time selected by the user and retain a copy of the audio video material for multiple playbacks in the future.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a picture and sound transmission system wherein the information requested by the user may be sent as only audio information only video information or as a combination of audio and video information.

Additional objects and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objects and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

To achieve the objects in accordance with the purposes of the present invention as embodied and described herein the transmission and receiving system for providing information to remote locations comprises source material library means prior to identification and compression identification encoding means for retrieving the information for the items from the source material library means and for assigning a unique identification code to the retrieved information conversion means coupled to identification encoding means for placing the retrieved information into a predetermined format as formatted data ordering means coupled to the conversion means for placing the formatted data into a sequence of addressable data blocks compression means coupled to the ordering means for compressing the formatted and sequenced data compressed data storing means coupled to the compression means for storing as a file the compressed sequenced data received from the compression means with the unique identification code assigned by the identification encoding means and transmitter means coupled to the compressed data storing means for sending at least a portion of a specific file to a specific one of the remote locations.

The present invention further comprises a distribution method responsive to requests identifying information to be sent from a transmission system to a remote location the method comprising the steps of storing audio and video information in a compressed data form requesting transmission by a user of at least a part of the stored compressed information to the remote location sending at least a portion of the stored compressed information to the remote location receiving the sent information at the remote location buffering the processed information at the remote location and playing back the buffered information in real time at a time requested by the user.

Additionally the present invention comprises a receiving system responsive to a user input identifying a choice of an item stored in a source material library to be played back to the subscriber at a location remote from the source material library the item containing information to be sent from a transmitter to the receiving system and wherein the receiving system comprises transceiver means for automatically receiving the requested information from the transmitter as compressed formatted data blocks receiver format conversion means coupled to the transceiver means for converting the compressed formatted data blocks into a format suitable for storage and processing resulting in playback in real time storage means coupled to the receiver format conversion means for holding the compressed formatted data decompressing means coupled to the receiver format conversion means for decompressing the compressed formatted information and output data conversion means coupled to the decompressing means for playing back the decompressed information in real time at a time specified by the user.

As shown in the transmission and receiving system may preferably comprise a peer to peer configuration where one transmission system communicates with one reception system . As shown in the transmission and receiving system of the present invention may alternatively comprise a plurality of reception systems and which are each associated with a single transmission system .

Reception system shown in is a cable television system as shown in reception system of . In the reception system is preferably buffering which means that users may receive requested material at a delayed time. The material is buffered in intermediate storage device in reception system .

In the configuration of decompression of the requested material may preferably occur at the head end of a cable television reception system . Thus distribution may be provided to users via standard television encoding methods downstream of the head end of the cable distribution system. This method is preferred for users who only have cable television decoders and standard television receivers.

With respect to the transmission and receiving systems set forth in the requested material may be fully compressed and encoded partly decompressed at some stage in transmission system or fully decompressed prior to transmission. The reception systems may either buffer the requested material for later viewing or decompress in real time the requested material as it is distributed by transmission system . Alternatively the reception systems of the present invention may perform a combination of buffering and non buffering by buffering some of the requested material and decompressing the remainder of the requested material for immediate viewing as it is distributed by transmission system .

In direct connection configurations such as reception systems shown in and the user preferably selects the reception system to which the requested material is sent and optionally selects the time playback of the requested material as desired. Accordingly the user may remotely access the transmission system from a location different than the location of reception system where the material will be sent and or played back. Thus for example a user may preferably call transmission system from work and have a movie sent to their house to be played back after dinner or at any later time of their choosing.

In non direct connection reception systems such as shown in reception system of intermediate storage device may preferably include for example sixteen hours of random access internal audio and video storage. A reception system with such storage is capable of storing several requested items for future playback. The user could then view and or record a copy of the decompressed requested material in real time or compressed in non real time at a time of their choosing. Accordingly the user would not have to make a trip to the store to purchase or rent the requested material.

In any of the transmission and receiving systems illustrated in the requested material may be copy protected. To achieve copy protection the requested material as an item is encoded as copy protected during storage encoding in transmission system . The user may then play back the item only one time. The user may also optionally review select portions of the item prior to its automatic erasure from the memory of the reception system . In this way requested material may be distributed to view only users and also to view and copy users who wish to retain copies of the distributed items.

Copy protected programs when decompressed and played back would have a copy protection technique applied to the analog and digital output signals. The analog video output is protected from copying through the use of irregular sync signals which makes the signal viewable on a standard television but not recordable on an audio video recorder. The receiving system recognizes copy protected programs. Digital output protection is effected through copy protect bit settings in the digital output signal thus preventing a compatible digital recorder from recording the digital audio and or video signal stream. A protected item will not be passed to the compressed data port of the digital recorder for off line storage.

Transmission system of a preferred embodiment of the present invention preferably includes source material library means for temporary storage of items prior to conversion and storage in a compressed data library means. The items of information may include analog and digital audio and video information as well as physical objects such as books and records which require conversion to a compatible media type before converting compressing and storing their audio and video data in the compressed data library means.

As shown in the source material library means included in transmission system preferably includes a source material library . The source material library may include different types of materials including television programs movies audio recordings still pictures files books computer tapes computer disks documents of various sorts musical instruments and other physical objects. These materials are converted to or recorded on a media format compatible to the digital and analog inputs of the system prior to being compressed and stored in a compressed data library . The different media formats preferably include digital or analog audio and video tapes laser disks film images optical disks magnetic disks computer tapes disks and cartridges.

The source material library according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention may preferably include a single source material library or a plurality of source material libraries. If there are a plurality of source material libraries they may be geographically located close together or may be located far apart. The plurality of source material libraries may communicate using methods and channels similar to the methods and channel types which libraries may employ for communication with the receiving system of the user or the source material libraries may communicate via any available method.

Prior to being made accessible to a user of the transmission and receiving system of the present invention the item must be stored in at least one compressed data library and given a unique identification code by identification encoder . Storage encoding performed by identification encoder aside form giving the item a unique identification code optionally involves logging details about the item called program notes and assigning the item a popularity code. Storage encoding may be performed just prior to conversion of the item for transmission to reception system at any time after starting the conversion process or after storing the item in the compressed data library .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the method of encoding the information involves assigning a unique identification code and a file address to the item assigning a popularity code and inputting the program notes. This process is identical for any of the different media types stored in the source material library .

The transmission system of the present invention also preferably includes conversion means for placing the items from source material library into a predetermined format as formatted data. In the preferred embodiment after identification encoding is performed by identification encoder the retrieved information is placed into a predetermined format as formatted data by the converter . The items stored in source material library and encoded by identification encoder may be in either analog or digital form. Converter therefore includes analog input receiver and digital input receiver . If items have only one format only one type of input receiver or is necessary.

When the information from identification encoder is digital the digital signal is input to the digital input receiver where it is converted to a proper voltage. A formatter sets the correct bit rates and encodes into least significant bit lsb first pulse code modulated pcm data. Formatter includes digital audio formatter and digital video formatter . The digital audio information is input into a digital audio formatter and the digital video information if any is input into digital video formatter . Formatter outputs the data in a predetermined format.

When the retrieved information from identification encoder is analog the information is input to an analog to digital converter to convert the analog data of the retrieved information into a series of digital data bytes. Converter preferably forms the digital data bytes into the same format as the output of formatter .

Converter preferably includes an analog audio converter and an analog video converter . The analog audio converter preferably converts the retrieved audio signal into pcm data samples at a fixed sampling rate. The analog video converter preferably converts the analog video information retrieved from identification encoder into pcm data also at fixed sampling rates.

If the retrieved information being converted contains only audio information then the audio signal is fed to the appropriate digital audio input or analog audio input. When the retrieved information contains both audio and video information the audio and video signals are passed simultaneously to the audio and video converter inputs. Synchronization between the audio and video data can be maintained in this way.

If for example the retrieved information to be converted from the source material library is a motion picture film the picture frames in the film are passed through a digital telecine device to the digital input receiver . Format conversion is then preferably performed by digital video formatter . Accompanying audio information is passed through an optical or magnetic digital playback device. This device is connected to digital audio formatter

In some cases such as in inter library transfers incoming materials may be in a previously compressed form so that there is no need to perform compression by precompression processor and compressors and . In such a case retrieved items are passed directly from identification encoder to the compressed data formatter . The item database records such as the program notes that may also be input from another system to the compressed data formatting section where this data if necessary is reformatted to make it compatible with the material stored in compressed data library . Such material may be received in the form of digital tapes or via existing communication channels and may preferably input directly to a short term storage in the compressed data formatting section .

The transmission system of the present invention also preferably includes ordering means for placing the formatted information into a sequence of addressable data blocks. As shown in the ordering means in the preferred embodiment includes time encoder . After the retrieved information is converted and formatted by the converter the information may be time encoded by the time encoder . Time encoder places the blocks of converted formatted information from converter into a group of addressable blocks. The preferred addressing scheme employs time encoding. Time encoding allows realignment of the audio and video information in the compressed data formatting section after separate audio and video compression processing by precompression processor and compressor .

The converted formatted information of the requested material is then preferably in the form of a series of digital data bytes which represent frames of video data and samples of the audio data. A preferred relationship of the audio and video bytes to each other is shown in . Incoming signals are input and converted in sequence starting with the first and ending with the last frame of the video data and starting with the first and ending with the last sample of the audio data. Time encoding by time encoder is achieved by assigning relative time markers to the audio and video data as it passes from the converter through the time encoder to the precompression processor . Realignment of audio and video data system addressing of particular data byes and user addressing of particular portions of items are all made possible through time encoding.

Through the use of the address of an item and its frame number it is possible to address any particular block of audio or video data desired. From here further addressing down to the individual byte is possible. Frames and groups of frames may preferably be further broken down as necessary to the individual bytes and bits as required for certain processing within the system.

User and system addressing requirements dictate the level of granularity available to any particular section of the system. Users are able to move through data in various modes thus moving through frame addresses at various rates. For example a user may desire to listen to a particular song. They may preferably enter the song number either when requesting the item from the compressed data library and only have that song sent to their receiving system or they may preferably select that particular song from the items buffered in their receiving system . Internal to the system the song is associated with a starting frame number which was indexed by the system operator via the storage encoding process. The system item database may contain information records for individual frames or groups of frames. These can represent still frames chapters songs book pages etc. The frames are a subset of and are contained within the items stored in the compressed data library . Time encoding by time encoder makes items and subsets of items retrievable and addressable throughout the transmission system . Time encoding enables subsequent compression of the information to be improved because data reduction processes may be performed in the time dimension. This is described in greater detail below.

The transmission system of the present invention also preferably includes data compression means for compressing the formatted and sequenced data. The sequence of addressable data blocks which was time encoded and output by time encoder is preferably sent to precompression processor . The data arriving from time encoder may be at various frame rates and of various formats. Precompression processor preferably includes audio precompressor and video precompressor

Video precompression processor buffers incoming video data and converts the aspect ratio and frame rate of the data as required by compression processor . The frame buffer of video precompression processor holds all incoming data until the data is compressed by the data compressor . The incoming video data is processed for sample rate optimization aspect ratio fitting and buffered in buffer for compression processing by the video precompression processor

Video precompression processor processes the incoming video data so that it fits into the aspect ratio of the transmission and receiving system of the present invention. When incoming material with a different aspect ratio than the aspect ratio of the system is selected a chosen background is preferably placed around the inactive region of the video information. In this way no data is lost to differences in the aspect ratio between incoming material and the converted and compressed data stored in the transmission system . Images resulting from a different aspect ratio may have an inactive region where background information is contained or may be converted into a best fit arrangement. Output from the video precompression processor is stored in the frame buffer which is dual ported and is directly addressable by video compressor .

The incoming audio data is processed for sample rate and word length optimization and is then buffered in buffer for compression processing by the audio precompression processor . Audio precompression processor may preferably transcode incoming audio information as required to create the optimum sample rate and word lengths for compression processing. The output of the audio precompression processor is a constant sample rate signal of a fixed word length which is buffered in frame buffer . The frame buffer is dual ported and is directly addressable by audio compressor . Blocking the audio data into frames at audio precompression processor makes it possible to work with the audio data as addressable packets of information.

Once precompression processing is finished the frames are compressed by the data processor . Compressor preferably comprises an audio data compressor and a video data compressor . The benefits of data compression performed by data compressor are shortened transmission time faster access time greater storage capacity and smaller storage space requirements. Compression processing performed by compressors and requires multiple samples of data to perform optimum compression. Audio and video information is preferably converted into blocks of data organized in groups for compression processing by audio compressor and video compressor respectively. These blocks are organized as frames and a number of frames are contained respectively in the buffers and . By analyzing a series of frames it is possible to optimize the compression process.

Audio data is preferably compressed by audio compressor by application of an adaptive differential pulse code modulation ADPCM process to the audio data. This compression process which may be implemented by the apt x digital audio compression system is manufactured by Audio Processing Technology APT . Audio compression ratios of 8 or greater are achieved with the APT system.

Compression by compressor may be performed on a group of 24 video frames may preferably be passed in sequence to the frame buffer of the video precompression processor where they are analyzed by video compressor which performs data reduction processing on the video data. Video compression is preferably performed by video compressor . Video compression is achieved by the use of processors running algorithms designed to provide the greatest amount of data compression possible. Video data compression preferably involves applying two processes a discrete cosine transform and motion compensation. This process is described in A Chip Set Core of Image Compression by Artieri and Colavin. Multiple frames of video data may preferably be analyzed for patterns in the horizontal H vertical V diagonal zigzag and time Z axis. By finding repetition in the video data redundancy may be removed and the video data may be compressed with a minimal loss of information.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the transmission system may further comprise compressed data storing means coupled to the compression means for storing as a file the compressed sequenced data with the unique identification code received from the data compression means. After compression processing by compressor the compressed audio and video data is preferably formatted and placed into a single file by the compressed data storage means . The file may contain the compressed audio and or video data time markers and the program notes. The file is addressable through the unique identification code assigned to the data by the identification encoder .

Further according to the present invention the transmission system preferably includes compressed data library means for separately storing composite formatted data blocks for each of the files. The compressed data storage means preferably includes compressed data library as shown in . After the data is processed into a file by the compressed data storage means it is preferably stored in a compressed data library . In a preferred embodiment compressed data library is a network of mass storage devices connected together via a high speed network. Access to any of the files stored in compressed data library is available from multiple reception systems connected to the transmission and receiving system.

Stored items are preferably accessed in compressed data library through a unique address code. The unique address code is a file address for uniquely identifying the compressed data items stored in the compressed data library section of a library system. This file address combined with the frame number and the library system address allow for complete addressability of all items stored in one or more compressed data libraries . Compressed data library addresses along with receiving system addresses are used to form a completely unique address for distribution system control.

The unique address code is an address assigned to the item by the system operator during storage encoding which is preferably done prior to long term storage in the compressed data library . In a preferred embodiment the unique address code is used for requesting and accessing information and items throughout the transmission and receiving system. The unique address code makes access to the requested data possible.

The storage encoding process performed by encoder also allows entry of item notes and production credits. Production credits may include the title names of the creators of the item such as the producer director actors etc. Other details regarding the item which may be of interest and which may make the items more accessible are kept in an item database.

Item addresses are mapped to item names by identification encoder and may preferably be used as an alternative method of accessing items. The item names are easier to remember thus making user access more intuitive by using item names. The storage encoding entry process performed in identification encoder operates a program which updates a master item database containing facts regarding items in the compressed data library system. The storage encoding process may be run by the system operator whereby the system operator accesses the master item database to track and describe items stored in one or more compressed data libraries. The names and other facts in the item database may preferably be updated at any time via the storage encoding process. Changes made to the master item database may be periodically sent to the remote order processing and item database .

As described in more detail later a user may preferably access an item via its unique identification code via its title or the user may use other known facts for accessing an item. The user may access items in the compressed data library directly using the unique address code or the user may obtain access via the remote order processing and item database . Indirect access via the remote order processing and item database is possible using for example a synthesized voice system a query type of computer program interface or customer assistance operators. In addition to providing interactive access to the remote order processing and item database a catalog listing some or all available titles may also preferably be published. With a published catalog users may obtain the unique address code for an item very easily thereby allowing for retrieval from the compressed data library without any help from an interactive system.

To achieve user access via an interactive system facts about the items may be kept in files as a part of the items or the facts may be kept separately for example by systems which only inform users of the available items and take orders. For example in systems which have portions split in separate locations the facts about the items may be separated from the items themselves and stored in separate files. A system of this type can distribute user orders to other portions of the transmission and receiving system for ultimate distribution to the requesting user. Further to support a plurality of users multiple versions of the item database may preferably reside either on multiple database servers in catalogs or on other computer systems.

The item database master may reside in the system control computer which may be updated and kept current to the contents of the compressed data library . The data stored in the item database master may be accessed by users via application programs running on the system control computer and on the reception system of the user. Users may connect to the item database via any available telecommunication channels. Copies of the item database master may be updated and informed of new entries into compressed data library at periodic intervals determined by the system manager.

Other copies of the item database master may also be made available to users from the remote order processing and item database which batch processes and downloads user requests to the control computer of the compressed data library via standard telecommunications or high speed communication channels. Moreover multiple remote order processing and item database sites make it possible for more locations to process orders than there are library facilities and thus make order processing more efficient.

Preferably access of a requested item via the remote order processing and item database operates as follows. If the user does not know the title of the desired item he or she may request the item by naming other unique facts related to the item. For example a user would be able to access an item about Tibetan Medicine by asking for all items which include information about Tibet and include information about Medicine. The remote order processing and item database would then be searched for all records matching this request. If there is more than one item with a match each of the names of the matching items are preferably indicated to the user. The user then selects the item or items that he or she desires. Upon selection and confirmation by the user a request for transmission of a particular item or items is sent to the distribution manager program of the system control computer . The request contains the address of the user the address of the item and optionally includes specific frame numbers and a desired viewing time of the item.

The storage encoding process performed by identification encoder also allows entry of a popularity code. The popularity code is preferably assigned on the basis of how often the corresponding item is expected to be requested from the compressed data library . This popularity code can be used to determine the most appropriate form of media for storage of the compressed data in a mixed media system. Mixed media systems are preferably employed as more cost effective storage in very large compressed data libraries . Once assigned the popularity code may be dynamically updated by factoring item usage against system usage. Thus stored items are dynamically moved to the most appropriate media over their life in the compressed data library . If a particular item stored in compressed data library is retrieved frequently by users storage in compressed data library is preferably on higher speed more reliable and probably more expensive media. Such media includes Winchester and magneto optical disks.

If an item stored in compressed data library is retrieved less frequently it may be stored in the compressed data library on a digital cassette tape. Examples of such cassette tapes are a Honeywell RSS 600 Honeywell Inc. Minneapolis Minn. Summus JukeBoxFilm and tape library Summus Computer Systems Houston Tex. 800 255 9638 or equivalent cassette tapes. All items stored in the compressed data library are on line and are connected to the high speed network. Thus they may be readily accessed.

Instead of using a remote order processing and item database the compressed data library may include the program notes which were input by the system operator. The program notes may preferably include the title of the item stored in the compressed data library chapter or song titles running times credits the producer of the item acting and production credits etc. The program notes of an item stored in the compressed data library may be thus contained within the compressed data file formed in the compressed data formatter .

In some cases where multiple compressed data libraries are organized the popularity code may dictate distribution of a particular item to multiple distribution systems. In such cases a copy of the compressed data is sent to another library and the other library can then distribute the compressed data to users concurrently with the original compressed data library .

The compressed data library is composed of a network of storage devices connected through a High Performance Parallel Interface HPPI Super Controller available from Maximum Strategy Inc. San Jose Calif. . Therefore multiple communication controllers may preferably access the large quantity of data stored in compressed data library at very high speeds for transfer to a reception system of a user upon request. For more details on this configuration see Ohrenstein Supercomputers Seek High Throughput and Expandable Storage Computer Technology Review pp. 33 39 April 1990.

The use of an HPPI controller allows file placement onto multiple mass storage devices of the compressed data library with a minimum of overhead. Database management software controls the location and tracking of the compressed data library which can be located across multiple clusters of file servers connected together by one or more high speed networks over multiple systems.

The transmission system of the present invention may also preferably include library access interface means for receiving transmission requests to transmit items and for retrieving formatted data blocks stored in the compressed data library corresponding to the requests from users. The compressed audio and or video data blocks along with any of the information about the item stored in the compressed data library may be accessed via library access interface . The library access interface receives transmission requests either directly from the users or indirectly by remote order processing and item database . The transmission format means receives the request and retrieves the composite formatted data block of the requested item stored in compressed data library and converts the compressed formatted data block into a format suitable for transmission. The requested item is then sent to the user via the transmitter or directly via interface .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention customer access of an item stored in compressed data library via the library access interface may be performed in various ways. The methods of requesting a stored item are analogous to making an airline reservation or transferring funds between bank accounts. Just as there are different methods available for these processes it is desirable to have several ordering methods available to the users of the system of the present invention. For example telephone tone decoders and voice response hardware may be employed. Additionally operator assisted service or user terminal interfaces may be used.

Customer access via telephone tone decoders and voice response hardware is completely electronic and may preferably be performed between a system user and a computer order entry system. The user may obtain help in ordering an item from a computer synthesized voice. With such an access method the user will normally be accessing a dynamic catalog to assist them. Confirmation of selections and pricing information may preferably be given to the user prior to completion of the transaction.

This process of access performed by remote order processing and item database configuration shown in preferably includes the following steps shown in flowchart of . First the user calls the system access number step . Upon successfully dialing the system access number the user receives instructions from the system step . The instructions may preferably include steps the user must take in order to place an order. Preferably the instructions may be bypassed by the experienced user who knows how to place an order.

The user then enters a customer ID code by which the system accesses the user s account and indicates to the system that the user is a subscriber of the system step . In response to the user entering his ID code in step the system confirms whether the user is in good standing step . If the user is in good standing the system queues the user to input his request step .

The user request may preferably be made from a catalog sent to each of the subscribers of the system. The user will preferably identify his choice and enter the corresponding identification code of the item step . The system then preferably confirms the selection that the user has made and informs the user of the price of the selection step .

The user then indicates whether the confirmation performed in step is correct step . If the confirmation performed in step is correct the user so indicates and then inputs a desired delivery time and delivery location step .

If the confirmation performed in step does not result in the selection desired by the user the user re inputs the item identification code in step and the confirmation steps and are repeated. Therefore proper selection of the selected item is insured. Once there is confirmation the user enters the playback time and destination in step .

The user then preferably confirms that the order is correct step . The confirmation performed in step includes confirmation of the entire transaction including the selected item the selected time of playback and the location of playback. The transaction is then completed and the request is placed on a transmission queue at the appropriate compressed data library step .

Access by the users via operator assisted service includes telephone operators who answer calls from the users. The operators can sign up new customers take orders and help with any billing problems. The operators will preferably have computer terminals which give them access to account information and available program information. Operators can also assist a user who does not know a title by looking up information stored in files which may contain the program notes as described above. Once the chosen program is identified the operator informs the user of the price. After the user confirms the order the user indicates the desired delivery time and destination. The operator then enters the user request into the system. The request is placed in the transmission queue.

Access by a user terminal interface method provides the user with access from various terminals including personal computers and specialized interfaces built into the reception system for the user. Such access allows a user to do a search of available programs from a computer screen. This process involves the steps shown in .

To complete an order the remote order processing and item database preferably connects to the compressed data library of choice via the library access interface and communicates with the library system control computer . Preferably the user s account ID identification of the item for transmission and the chosen destination for the item are communicated. Through employment of distributed order processing systems of this type many orders may be processed with minimal library overhead.

All transmission requests from the access methods are placed into a transmission queue managed by the library system control computer . This queue is managed by a program that controls the distribution of the requested items to the reception system of the user. The queue manager program also operates in the system control computer and keeps track of the user ID the chosen program and price the user channel type the number of requests for a given program the latest delivery time and the compressed data library media type for example high speed or low speed . From this information the queue manager program makes best use of the available distribution channels and media for efficient transmission and storage of the requested items.

The queue manager program also manages the file transmission process for multiple requests for a single file stored in the compressed data library . During a given time period the queue manager program will optimize access to the compressed data library wherever possible it will place the data on multiple outputs for simultaneous transmission to more than one requesting user.

The conversion performed by transmission data converter encodes the data for the transmission channel. The transmission data converter transfers the desired segments of data from the compressed data library onto the communication channel which is used to deliver the data to the reception system .

The transmission system of the present invention preferably further includes transmitter means coupled to the compressed data library for sending at least a portion of a specific file to at least one remote location. The transmission and receiving system of the present invention preferably operates with any available communication channels. Each channel type is accessed through the use of a communications adaptor board or processor connecting the data processed in the transmission format converter to the transmission channel.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention also includes means by which to access users via common access lines. These may include standard telephone ISDN or B ISDN microwave DBS cable television systems MAN high speed modems or communication couplers. Metropolitan Area Networks MANs which are common carrier or private communication channels are designed to link sites in a region. MANs are described by Morreale and Campbell in Metropolitan area networks IEEE Spectrum May 1990 pp. 40 42 . The communication lines are used to transmit the compressed data at rates up to typically 10 Mb sec.

In order to serve a multitude of channel types a preferred embodiment of the present invention includes a multitude of output ports of each type connected to one or more computers on the transmission and receiving system. The management of transmission is then distributed. That is the computer controlling the transmission queue tells the transmission encoding computer its task and then the task is executed by the transmission encoding computer independent of the transmission queue computer. The transmission queue computer provides the data for transmission by the file server which also distributes to other transmitters located in the same or other transmission encoding computers.

After availability is confirmed in step the communications controller preferably makes the physical connection to the reception system of the user step . This is normally done by dialing the receiving device of the user. The reception system preferably answers the incoming call and confirms the connection step .

Once connected to the reception system in steps and the data stored in compressed data library is preferably transferred in data blocks from the compressed data library to the communications controller step . The data blocks are buffered by the communications controller. The buffered data is sent down the communications channel to the reception system by transmitter step .

The transmitter places the formatted data onto the communications channel. This is an electrical conversion section and the output depends upon the chosen communication path. The signal is sent to the reception system in either a two way or a one way communication process. In a standard telephone connection the transmitter is preferably a modem. When using an ISDN channel the transmitter is preferably a data coupler.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention many forms of communication channels may be employed. Distribution of information is by common carrier communication channels whenever possible. These channels include common telephone service ISDN and Broadband ISDN DBS cable television systems microwave and MAN.

In order that reception is performed efficiently the reception system confirms reception of the initial data block before receiving the remaining data blocks whenever possible step . After all data blocks have been received and reception is confirmed the communications controller breaks the physical connection to the reception system step . Then confirmation of the transmission is sent to the queue manager step . Finally the queue manager updates the list and sends the information to the billing program which updates the account of the user step .

When item distribution occurs through a broadcasting method such as a communications satellite the process is one way with ongoing reception not being confirmed by the reception system . In these situations some further redundancy is included by transmission formatter with the data blocks for error correction processing to be performed in the reception system . In such one way communication situations the queue manager program running in library system control computer confirms reception via telephone line connection for example to the reception system after distribution. This should occur prior to updating the user s account and the dispatch lists.

The real time output signals are output to a playback system such as an audio amplifier and or television. This output may also be sent to an audio video recorder for more permanent storage. Moreover in the preferred embodiment only non copy protected data can be recorded on an audio video recorder. Any material which is copy protected will be scrambled at the video output in a way which makes it viewable on a standard audio video receiver but does not allow for recording of the material.

The reception system has playback controls similar to the controls available on a standard audio video recorder. These include play fast forward rewind stop pause and play slow. Since items are preferably stored on random access media the fast forward and rewinding functions are simulations of the actual events which occur on a standard audio video recorder. Frames do not tear as on an audio video recorder but in fast play modes they go by very quickly.

The library access interface in the reception system preferably includes a title window where a list of available titles are alphabetically listed. This window has two modes local listing of material contained within the library system control computer and library listing for all available titles which may be received from the available remotely accessible libraries. The titles listed in this window are sent from the database on the library system control computer or the remote order processing and item database .

The system may also preferably include dispatching control software which receives input from the remote order processing and item database and sends distribution requests to the distribution systems. In instances where not all items are contained in each of the compressed data libraries the dispatching software will keep a list of the available titles in a particular compressed data library . The dispatch software may also preferably coordinate network traffic source material library utilization source material library contents and connection costs. By proper factoring of these variables efficient use of the available distribution channels may be achieved.

The transceiver is preferably connected to receiver format converter . The receiver format converter converts the compressed formatted data blocks into a format suitable for playback by the user in real time.

In the reception system of the present invention the user may want to play back the requested item from the source material library at a time later than when initially requested. If that is the case the compressed formatted data blocks from receiver format converter are stored in storage . Storage allows for temporary storage of the requested item until playback is requested.

When playback is requested the compressed formatted data blocks are sent to data formatter . Data formatter processes the compressed formatted data blocks and distinguishes audio information from video information.

The separated audio and video information are respectively decompressed by audio decompressor and video decompressor . The decompressed video data is then sent simultaneously to digital video output converter and analog video output converter . The decompressed audio data is sent simultaneously to digital audio output converter and analog audio output converter . The outputs from converters are produced in real time.

The real time output signals are output to a playback system such as a TV or audio amplifier. They may also be sent to an audio video recorder of the user. By using the reception system of the present invention the user may utilize the stop pause and multiple viewing functions of the receiving device. Moreover in a preferred embodiment of the present invention the output format converters may be connected to a recorder which enables the user to record the requested item for future multiple playbacks.

As illustrated in the first step of the distribution method involves retrieving the information for selected items in the source material library upon a request by a user of the distribution system step . This is analogous to taking books off of a shelf at the local public library after the person has decided that he or she would like to read them.

After the information for the selected items is retrieved in step the distribution method of the present invention further comprises the step of processing the information for efficient transfer step . The processing performed in step preferably includes assigning a unique identification code to the retrieved information performed by identification encoder shown and described with respect to step . The processing also preferably includes placing the retrieved information into a predetermined format as formatted data by converter step and placing the formatted data into a sequence of addressable data blocks by ordering means step .

Processing step also includes compressing the formatted and sequenced data performed by data compressor step and storing as a file the compressed sequenced data received from the data compression means with the unique identification assigned by the identification encoding means step .

After the information is processed for efficient transfer in substeps of step the distribution method of the present invention preferably includes the step of storing the processed information is stored in a compressed data library step . Preferably the compressed data library is analogous to compressed data library described with respect to

After the information is stored in a compressed data library the transmission and receiving system preferably waits to receive a transmission request step . Upon receiving a transmission request from transmission system the compressed formatted data is preferably converted for output to a reception system selected by the user. The information is preferably transmitted over an existing communication channel to a reception system and is received by that system step . When the information is received in step it is preferably formatted for the particular type of reception system to which the information is sent.

The received information is preferably buffered step by a storage means analogous to element shown in . The information is preferably buffered so that it may be stored by the user for possible future viewings. The requested information is then played back to the reception system of the user at the time requested by the user step .

As shown in the same block for example block may be simultaneously transmitted over different distribution channels. The blocks when transmitted over one of the distribution channels may have receiver addresses appended to the blocks or the reception system may have been preconfigured to receive the blocks comprising data frames for particular items from the active distribution channel.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

