---

title: Specification and management of consolidated ticket packages in workflows
abstract: Systems, methods, and/or techniques (“tools”) for specifying and managing consolidated ticket packages in workflows are provided. In some aspects, the tools may request and receive indications of capabilities of devices that may participate in a workflow, and may generate ticket packages based on the device capabilities, with the ticket packages being consolidated across the workflow. In other aspects, the tools may provide the device capabilities upon request, and may receive job requests that include the ticket packages. In still other aspects, the tools may present a user interface that includes representations of one or more workflows, may receive from a user a selection of one of the workflows, and may present information from a ticket package related to the selected workflow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07973955&OS=07973955&RS=07973955
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07973955
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061101
---
As new types of devices become available in the market enterprises or other users of these devices are continually integrating these new devices into workflows. Typically different devices offer different capabilities and these devices may expose their capabilities using different mechanisms. Thus those who wish to use these devices in workflows may face the prospect of discovering and using a variety of different techniques to extract the capabilities of different devices. Further where a given device offers multiple functions this single device may expose the capabilities of these different functions using different mechanisms. For example the device may provide one application program interface API for querying for scan related functions and another API for querying. for print related functions.

Additionally once the capabilities of the devices have been extracted the integration of these capabilities into workflows remains an issue. More specifically applications may use conventional techniques to specify settings for multiple devices in a given workflow. Under these conventional techniques the applications may face the burden of interacting with each device on a piecemeal basis to specify the settings for whatever functions that the device is performing in the workflow.

Systems methods and or techniques tools for specifying and managing consolidated ticket packages in workflows are provided. In some aspects the tools may request and receive indications of capabilities of devices that may participate in a workflow and may generate ticket packages based on the device capabilities with the ticket packages being consolidated across the workflow. In other aspects the tools may provide the device capabilities upon request and may receive job requests that include the ticket packages. In still other aspects the tools may present a user interface that includes representations of one or more workflows may receive from a user a selection of one of the workflows and may present information from a ticket package related to the selected workflow.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The term tools for instance may refer to system s method s computer readable instructions and or technique s as permitted by the context above and throughout the document.

The following document describes tools capable of performing and or supporting many techniques and processes. The following discussion describes exemplary ways in which the tools provide for specification and management of consolidated ticket packages in workflows. This discussion also describes other techniques and or processes that the tools may perform.

In some aspects the tools enable the representation of user configurable device capabilities for multifunction devices in a single capabilities package e.g. an XML document . In other aspects the tools enable users and applications to specify device settings for jobs with the device settings being based on the device capabilities reported in a capabilities package. Throughout this disclosure the terms device capabilities and capabilities package are used interchangeably.

One or more users may be associated with the devices . As described in further detail below these users may initiate jobs or workflows or may participate in existing workflows. To perform such functions these users may interact with one or more of the devices . For ease of description but not limitation the users and or the devices may be viewed as clients that may request services.

The operating environments may also include one or more devices that may offer services or resources to the users and or the devices . For example but not limitation illustrates a scanner device and a multifunction device MFD collectively devices . The MFD may provide scanning faxing printing or other capabilities in one device.

One or more users may be associated with the devices . As described in further detail below these users may administer the devices or may configure the devices to perform particular functions. For ease of description but not limitation the users may be viewed as administrators and the devices may be viewed as servers that offer services to the devices and or the users .

In general the devices and may be computer based systems that include one or more processor s denoted respectively at and . These processors may also be categorized or characterized as having a given type or architecture but may or may not have the same type or architecture.

The devices and may also include one or more instances of computer readable storage media denoted respectively at and . The computer readable media and may contain instructions that when executed by the processors and perform any of the tools or related functions as described herein. The processors and may be configured to access and or execute the instructions embedded or encoded onto the computer readable media.

Turning in more detail to the computer readable media it may include one or more applications . These applications may include for example word processing applications database applications image processing or editing applications browsers or the like. In general the users may interact with the applications using resources provided by the devices .

The computer readable media may also include one or more instances of a device capabilities request component . It is noted that the request component is shown apart from the application only for ease of discussion and reference but not to limit implementations of the description herein. For example in some implementations the request component may be part of the application.

Assume for example that a particular user wishes to use one of the devices to perform one or more given jobs or tasks. Examples of such tasks may include scanning faxing printing archiving routing or the like. In some instances the user may setup and control multiple sub tasks to be performed as part of a given job using for example the ticket package mechanism described below in . To initiate this job the user may issue appropriate commands to the application . These commands may include for example scanning commands printing commands or the like. More specifically the commands may relate to obtaining the capabilities of the devices . In the illustrated implementation the application may refer these commands from the users to the request component . In other implementations in which the request component is part of the application the request component may take the form of an application program interface API that the application may call.

Upon receiving an indication that the users have issued the commands the request component may generate a query to the device . For example the query may be a request that the device provide a listing of its capabilities. More specifically the computer readable media of the device may include a device capabilities response component that receives the query and responds thereto. For example if the query is an inquiry for device capabilities the response component may generate and provide a response denoted generally as device capabilities . In possible implementations the device capabilities may be specified in a single XML document as illustrated in the example below 

In this example the document defines a root XML element along with multiple XML child elements. The represents an entire device while each child element represents a specific function of the device. Each child element may be defined in a different schema for processing as defined by the namespace of the child element. In this example the document defines print capabilities and scan capabilities under a first schema schema1 and defines an arbitrary example function under a second schema schemaN .

The processing of this document may be exposed through one or more APIs. Using these APIs the request component may provide a single mechanism for the application to query the capabilities package for devices e.g. the MFD . Some implementations may also include separate APIs to independently query each function contained in a capabilities package . For example an application could query only the for a multi function device that supports print and scan functions.

The response component may interact with a device driver for the device to provide the device capabilities . Different devices may be associated with corresponding device drivers .

Returning to the device having received the device capabilities the device and or the user may consider the capabilities of the device. More specifically the application may formulate a request to access these capabilities in one or more jobs or workflows. The request may include for example a print job a scan job or the like. In addition the request may include a request to initiate a workflow that includes for example a print job scan job or the like.

Having described the operating environments the discussion now turns to a description of ticket packages and document containers now presented with .

As described in the query may provide a mechanism by which the application may obtain device capabilities related to given devices e.g. A and N . These devices may be associated with respective device drivers as represented by the dashed line . One or more of these devices may participate in a given workflow. The workflows may include one or more individual workflow components or workflow processes . shows two examples of such components or processes at A and N collectively . These components or processes may include interactions with none or some of the devices . Additionally these components or processes may be arranged in sequence or in parallel as appropriate to implement any number of possible workflows. Examples of these components or processes may include input processes such as scanning or other forms of data entry output processes such as printing archiving sanitization operations or the like or intermediate processes such as compliance reviews audits edits or modifications routing instructions or the like.

In any event if the application wishes to send a job to one of these devices as part of a workflow the application may query e.g. in the device driver that corresponds to the device to obtain the capabilities e.g. in of that device. represents these communications generally at and based on these communications the application may formulate a data structure that includes a ticket package element . The ticket package element may enable the user to setup and control multiple tasks e.g. scan then print then archive with a single ticket package.

For convenience of description but not limitation an example of an XML implementation of the ticket package element is produced here. The ticket package element allows multiple device function settings to be included in a single XML document as illustrated below 

In this example a root XML element is defined under which multiple XML child elements may be defined. The root represents an entire given device while each child element represents a specific function of the device. In this example the defines printing and scanning functions under a first schema schema1 while also defining an arbitrary example function under a different schema schemaN . In this manner different elements may be defined in different schemas for processing as defined by the namespace of the element.

Turning to the contents of the ticket package this element may specify different parameters relating to the work flow that the user wishes to perform. For example the ticket package may include any number of settings that are specific to particular devices such as the devices . shows a non limiting example that includes a scan settings field and a print settings field . In general these device specific settings may be defined based on the device capabilities . For example an MFD N may advertise through the device capabilities a variety of different functions while supporting different parameters applicable to these different functions. The user may review these different functions and applicable parameters and specify any particular functions and or parameters that are of interest through the ticket package .

The ticket package may also include a routing instructions field that specifies the components and or processes to which the given workflow is to be routed. For example if a given document is to be scanned in to initiate a workflow then the user may specify that the document is to be reviewed and approved by a human or automated compliance entity at some point in the workflow. The routing instructions field may specify who is to review and approve the workflow or the document.

The ticket package may also include an archiving instructions field that specifies whether one or more documents involved in a workflow are to be archived. If the document is to be archived then the archiving instructions may specify when or how often to archive the document as well as how to archive the document.

The ticket package may also include a sanitization instructions field that specifies whether one or more documents involved in a workflow are to be released outside of a given organization. If the documents may be released externally then the sanitization instructions field may further specify any portions of the documents that are to be removed obscured or otherwise sanitized before the documents are released. For example any confidential or sensitive information may be removed before externally releasing the document. In some instances the sanitization instructions field may specify that certain documents are for internal use only and not for external release.

Once the application formulates the ticket package for a given job the application may route the job to the appropriate workflow process . The job is denoted generally at . The job may be associated with a document container structure . The document container structure may include the ticket package applicable to the given job referenced for convenience at . The document container structure may also include a content field that contains content related to the given job . For example if the job relates to scanning a document then the content field may contain image data representing the scanned document. If the job relates to printing a document then the content field may contain printable data representing the printable document.

To perform the job the workflow process may communicate with the devices through the appropriate device driver . represents these communications generally at .

Having described the workflow processes and related ticket packages and document containers in the discussion now proceeds to a description of additional aspects of the document containers as they may relate to multiple workflow processes now presented in .

A given workflow may include a sequence of workflow components and or processes . shows four examples of these workflow components and or processes are denoted at and but a given workflow may include any number of components and or processes arranged in any sequential or parallel manner.

An incoming job may be routed to the workflow component for processing. The job may be associated with a document container which may store any job related content in the content field . The document container may store a ticket package relating to the job in the field and any metadata generated during the course of the workflow may be stored in a metadata field . For example the metadata may provide a history of a given workflow. In some instances the metadata may indicate which workflow components handled the workflow and when they handled the workflow. Generally the metadata may store any arbitrary information about the job or the content in the job including the workflow history described above. Other examples of metadata may include job related statistics such as the number of documents in the job the number of pages in a given document the times at which documents are printed or scanned the times that virus checks have been run general document information such the author of the document the times that the document was created modified accessed or the like.

In an example shown in the workflow component may be a scan process in which the scanner scans a hardcopy of a document into electronic form for later processing. Once the workflow component has scanned the document as the job the workflow component may route a job to a next workflow component . As described above the ticket package may contain routing instructions e.g. in that identify the next component to participate in the workflow.

The job may include an updated version of the document container structure denoted at . The updated document container may include an updated content field which may contain for example the scanned document. The document container may contain a ticket package which may be carried forward from the ticket package or may be updated as part of the processes . Finally the document container may contain a metadata field which may provide details on the processing performed by the process or the process

Continuing the above example in which a workflow includes scanning a document the job may include for example a process in which a human user reviews edits approves or performs any other action on the data in the content field . Once this process is completed a job may be routed to a next component or process . An updated instance of the document container for the process is shown at . In turn the document container may include for example content fields ticket package fields and metadata fields

In the example shown in the process may be an output process such as printing the contents of the content field on a printer or MFD . This output process may be performed according to the settings specified in the ticket package . Any metadata emitted during this output process may be captured in the metadata field . Examples of this metadata may include but are not limited to the name of a printer on which the content was printed a time at which the content was printed a status or result of a print job e.g. success failure etc. or the like.

Having described the above workflow in several observations are now noted. The document container for a given workflow may be updated as the workflow progresses. Additionally the ticket packages represent the states of the ticket package as it passes from one workflow component to another. However the ticket package is understood to provide a single consolidated location where workflow related settings and or parameters may be specified. This consolidated ticket package may be passed from one workflow component to another as the workflow proceeds.

When a workflow component receives a job and the related ticket package the workflow component may examine the ticket package for any settings and parameters that are understood under the schemas defined for the ticket package and the workflow components. In some instances the ticket package may support different schemas recognized by different workflow components. For example a given ticket package may express scan settings under one schema while expressing print settings under another schema. In such instances workflow components may ignore any elements appearing in a given ticket package that are expressed under unrecognized schemas.

In other instances a given ticket package may express settings or parameters using different versions of the same schema. For example the scanner and the printer may recognize the same schema however the scanner may recognize a newer version of the schema than the printer. In these latter scenarios the ticket packages support the notion of versioning the capabilities of devices e.g. .

Having described the above features in the discussion now proceeds to a description of a management application that may access the document containers now presented with . For convenience of description but not to limit possible implementations some items described previously are carried forward into and denoted by similar reference signs.

The management application may enable the latter function by presenting on the UI a visual representation of the various jobs available for monitoring. More specifically the management application may provide a preview or display status information for a printing job. The management application may be responsive to user input to select a given job and to access the document container for the selected job. The management application may extract information from the document container and populate the UI with this information enabling the user to readily visualize the current status of the job.

In some instances the management application may enable the user to adjust routing instructions associated with a particular job. In other instances the management application may enable the user to add or delete components or processes to a particular job. However these examples are provided only to facilitate description but not to limit possible implementations of the description herein.

In general portions of the management application may execute on any device participating in a given workflow. For example the application and the device driver as shown in may implement portions of the management application . Additionally portions of the management application may execute on a central server that is provided to monitor different workflows.

Having described the management application in the discussion now turns to a description of processes for obtaining device capabilities and for submitting jobs into workflows now presented with .

Block represents requesting capabilities for one or more devices. shows examples of the devices at and shows examples of a query that may request device capabilities . Block may include repeating these requests for a plurality of different devices.

Block represents receiving one or more indications of the capabilities of different devices. shows an example of such device capabilities at .

Block represents processing the device capabilities and creating settings and routing instructions based on the device capabilities. Block may include creating the settings and instructions based on user input or based on prevailing business rules or logic.

As represented in blocks generating the ticket package may include receiving indications of a variety of different parameters. For example block represents receiving device settings e.g. print or scan settings. Block represents receiving routing instructions that specify which components and or processes are to participate in a given workflow. Block represents receiving instructions relating to archiving functions performed with the given workflow. Block represents receiving instructions relating to performing any sanitization operations within the given workflow.

Block represents generating a ticket package based on the device capabilities may include generating the ticket package in connection with a job. show examples of jobs at and also show progressions of jobs through different workflow components. As shown in the job request may include the ticket package e.g. .

Block may include gathering the various setting parameters into a single consolidated device ticket package. In this manner the consolidated ticket package may accompany a given document as it passes through a given workflow rather than having a variety of different ticket packages associated with different stages of the workflow.

Block represents generating a job request to initiate or continue a given workflow. shows an example of a job request at .

Block represents sending the job request to one or more workflow components and or processes. illustrates a sequence of job requests through a variety of different workflow components and or processes.

Having described processes for obtaining device capabilities and for submitting jobs into workflows in the discussion now turns to a description of providing device capabilities and for processing job requests now presented with .

Block represents receiving requests for device capabilities. shows a query for such device capabilities at and shows device capabilities .

Block represents returning device capabilities in response to the request received in block . Block may include returning the device capabilities to software components executing on a client device such as the devices shown in .

Block represents receiving a job request which may incorporate one or more of the device capabilities reported in block in the form of a ticket package. show examples of the job requests at . Block may include receiving job requests that incorporate ticket packages e.g. .

Block represents processing the job request received in block and performing whatever function is specified therein. Block may include referring to the ticket packages in the job request and performing functions in accordance to settings or specifications included in the ticket packages.

Block represents updating any metadata included in the document container. shows examples of metadata at .

Block represents forwarding a job request to a next component in an ongoing workflow. Block may include referring to the ticket packages for any routing instructions e.g. in applicable to the ongoing workflow and forwarding the job according to these routing instructions as represented generally in block .

Having described the processes for providing device capabilities and for processing job requests in the discussion now turns to a description of processes for accessing information related to given jobs passing through workflows now presented with .

Block represents presenting a user interface UI to a user. shows an example UI at and an example user at . Block may include presenting information related to one or more jobs or workflows to the user.

Block represents receiving a selection of one of the jobs or workflows from the user. Block may include receiving the selection in response to the information presented in block and may include receiving indications of mouse clicks or other actions performed by the user to interact with the UI.

Block represents accessing a document container related to a selected job or workflow. shows an example document container at . Block may include accessing the document container for the selected job or workflow to provide current status or to enable the user to adjust one or more settings related to the selected job or workflow.

Block represents presenting the user with information related to the selected job or workflow. Block may include accessing metadata or content stored in the document container and presenting that metadata or content for review by the user as represented by block . Block may also include presenting information from the ticket packages to the user as represented by block .

Block represents receiving modifications to the ticket packages from the user. For example having reviewed the contents of the ticket packages presented in block the user may alter the ticket packages for subsequent processing. These alterations may reflect modified preferences policy changes updated best practices or the like.

Although the systems and methods have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the system and method defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed system and method.

In addition regarding certain data and process flow diagrams described and illustrated herein it is noted that the processes and sub processes depicted therein may be performed in orders other than those illustrated without departing from the spirit and scope of the description herein. Also while these data and process flows are described in connection with certain components herein it is noted that these data and process flows could be performed with other components without departing from the spirit and scope of the description herein.

