---

title: Intervertebral disc prosthesis with a motion-adapted edge for the lumbar and cervical spine
abstract: The invention relates to an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of the intervertebral disc within the lumbar and cervical spine. For a two part as well as for a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis, according to the invention, in accordance to the design of the edges of the sliding partners, there are aspects for at least one of the sliding partners, in which there is an wavelike design of the edge, as the respectively different high edge regions preferably fluently merge. A significant advantage of the two part intervertebral disc prostheses, according to the invention, compared to the present state of the art of already known prostheses, is that as a result of a transfer of load across a large surface area due to the spherical sliding surfaces, the maximal possible inclination of the sliding partners towards each other in a dorsoventral and laterolateral direction and/or the extent of axial rotation can, according to the invention, be defined through the wavelike design of the edge regions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09308100&OS=09308100&RS=09308100
owner: 
number: 09308100
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060418
---
This is a continuation in part application of international application no. PCT DE2005 001885 filed Oct. 18 2005 designating the U.S. and claiming priority to international application no. PCT DE2004 002332 filed Oct. 18 2004. Both of these applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of an intervertebral disc of the lumbar and cervical spine.

The idea of function retaining artificial replacements for intervertebral discs is younger than that for replacements of artificial joints of extremities but in the meantime about 50 years old B ttner Janz Hochschuler McAfee Eds. The Artificial Disc. Springer Verlag Berlin Heidelberg New York 2003 . It results from biomechanical considerations unsatisfactory results of fusion surgeries disorders adjacent to fusion segments and from the development of new materials with greater longevity.

The publications and other materials including patents used herein to illustrate the invention and in particular to provide additional details respecting the practice are incorporated herein by reference.

By means of function retaining disc implants it is possible to avoid fusion surgery i.e. to maintain or to restore the mobility within the intervertebral disc space. In an in vitro experiment it is also possible to achieve a normalization of the biomechanical properties of the motion segment to a large extent through the implantation of an artificial intervertebral disc after a nucleotomy.

Implants for the replacement of the whole intervertebral disc differ from those for the replacement of the nucleus pulposus. Accordingly implants for the total replacement of the intervertebral disc are voluminous they are implanted via a ventral approach. An implantation of a prosthesis for total replacement of the intervertebral disc immediately after a standard nucleotomy can therefore not be carried out.

The indication for a function retaining intervertebral disc replacement as an alternative to the surgical fusion includes besides the painful discopathy also pre operated patients with a so called post discectomy syndrome patients with a recurrent herniated intervertebral disc within the same segment and patients having a pathology within the neighbouring intervertebral disc as a consequence fusion surgery.

Presently a total of more than 10 different prostheses are clinically used for the total replacement of intervertebral discs. For the lumbar spine the CHARIT Artificial Disc the PRODISC the MAVERICK the FLEXICORE and the MOBIDISC Overview in Clinical Reports PJB Publications Ltd. June 2004 are particularly well known and for the cervical spine the BRYAN prosthesis the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis the PRODISC C and the PCM prosthesis which will be described below.

The PRODISC prosthesis for the lumbar spine is being implanted since 1999 following its further development to the PRODISC II. Although with respect to its components a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis it is functionally a two part prosthesis with its sliding partners made of metal and polyethylene. Implantations of the PRODISC are carried out in the lumbar spine and with an adapted model of the prosthesis the PRODISC C also in the cervical spine. Different sizes heights achieved by the polyethylene core and angles of lordosis achieved by the metal endplates are available. Bending forward and backward as well as to the right and left is possible to the same extent of motion the axial rotation is not limited in the construction.

The same applies to both two part prostheses for the cervical spine the PCM prosthesis with its sliding partners metal and polyethylene and the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis with its sliding partners metal metal. As special feature of the construction of the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis it has the possibility for an anterior posterior translation due to the horizontal ventrally prolonged concavity which in a frontal section has the same radius as the convexity.

The Maverick MAVERICK and the FLEXICORE for the lumbar spine are functionally two part prostheses with spherical convex concave sliding partners both with sliding partners made of metal. In contrast the MOBIDISC is functionally a three part prosthesis with sliding partners of metal polyethylene and two articulation surfaces. One area is a segment of a sphere as it is in the three afore mentioned prostheses with a convex and a concave surface of the articulating partners each of the same radius the other area of the MOBIDISC being plane. Although a limitation of the axial rotation is planned within the plane section it is not limited within the convex concave area of articulation. In contrast the FLEXICORE has a small stopping area within the spherical sliding surfaces limiting the rotation movement.

The BRYAN prosthesis is clinically used as a compact prosthesis for total replacement of intervertebral discs of the cervical spine. It is attached to the vertebral bodies by convex titanium plates with a porous surface and achieves its biomechanical properties by virtue of a polyurethane nucleus.

The longest experience exists with the CHARIT prosthesis which is the subject matter of the DE 35 29 761 C2 and the U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 269. This prosthesis was developed in 1982 by Dr. Schellnack and Dr. Buttner Janz at the Charit in Berlin and was later on named SB CHARIT prosthesis. In 1984 the first surgery took place. The intervertebral disc prosthesis was further developed and since 1987 the current type of this prosthesis model III is being implanted in the meantime over 10000 times worldwide DE 35 29 761 C2 U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 269 . The prosthesis is functionally three parted with the sliding partners being metal and polyethylene with two identical spherical sliding surfaces. On the one hand it has a transversally mobile polyethylene core and on the other hand the accordingly adapted concave cups within the two metal endplates. For the adaptation to the intervertebral space the CHARIT prosthesis provides different sizes of the metal plates and different heights of the size adapted sliding cores as well as angled prosthetic endplates which when implanted vice versa in sagittal direction can also be used as replacement for the vertebral body. The primary fixation of the CHARIT prosthesis is achieved by six teeth which are located in groups of three slightly towards the middle next to the frontal and rear edge of each prosthetic plate.

The other prosthesis have other primary fixations on their surfaces directed towards the intervertebral bodies e.g. a sagitally running keel a structured surface a convex shape with for instance crosswise running grooves and combinations thereof also with differently located teeth. Furthermore screw fixations can be used either from ventral or from within the intervertebral space into the intervertebral body.

To assure a long term fixation of the prosthetic endplates to the intervertebral bodies and to thus generate a firm connection with the bone a surface was created in analogy to cement free hip and knee prostheses which combines chrome cobalt titanium and calcium phosphate in such a way that it is possible for bone to grow directly onto the endplates. This direct connection between prosthesis and bone without the development of connective tissue makes a long term fixation of the artificial intervertebral disc possible and reduces the danger of loosening or displacements of the prosthesis and material breakage.

One primary objective of function retaining intervertebral disc replacements is to closely adapt the motions of the prosthesis to the ones of a healthy intervertebral disc. Directly connected to this is the motion and stress for the facet joints which following inappropriate biomechanical stress have their own potential for disorders. There can be abrasion of the facet joints arthritis spondylarthritis in the full blown picture with the formation of osteophytes. As result of these osteophytes and also by a pathologic course of motion of the intervertebral disc alone the irritation of neural structures is possible.

A healthy intervertebral disc is in its interactions with other elements of the motion segment composed in such a way that it allows only motions to a certain extent. For example within the intervertebral disc motions to the front and back are combined with rotary motions and side motions are also combined with other motions. The motion amplitudes of a healthy intervertebral disc are very different with respect to the extension reclination and flexion bending forward as well as to the lateral bending right and left and rotary motion. Although of common basic characteristics there are differences between the motion amplitudes of the lumbar and cervical spine.

During motion of the intervertebral disc the centre of rotation changes i.e. the motion of the intervertebral disc does not take place around a fixed center. Due to a simultaneous translation movement of the adjacent vertebrae the center changes its position constantly inconstant center of rotation . The prosthesis according to DE 35 29 761 C2 shows a construction which differs in comparison to other available types of prostheses which are build like a ball and socket joint as a result of which they move around a defined localized centre of rotation. By virtue of the three part assembly of the prosthesis according to DE 35 29 761 C2 with two metallic endplates and the interpositioned freely mobile polyethylene sliding core the course of motion of a healthy intervertebral disc of the human spine is mimicked as far as possible however without the exact motion amplitudes in the specific motion directions.

A further important feature of the healthy lumbar intervertebral disc is its trapezium shape which is primarily responsible for the lordosis of the lumbar and cervical spine. The vertebral bodies themselves contribute only to a minor extent to the lordosis. During prosthetic replacement of intervertebral discs the lordosis should be maintained or reconstructed. The Charit disc prosthesis provides four differently angled endplates which moreover can be combined with each other. However during surgery there is more surgical effort and the risk to damage the vertebral endplates with the resulting danger of subsidence of the prosthesis into the vertebral bodies if the prosthesis has to be removed completely because a good adjustment of lordosis and an optimal load of the center of the polyethylene core were not achieved.

To avoid sliding or a slip out of the middle sliding partner from the endplates the DE 35 29 761 C2 discloses a sliding core with a two sided partly spherical surface lenticular with a plane leading edge and at the exterior with a ring bulge which will lock between the form adapted endplates during extreme motion. The DE 102 42 329 A1 discloses a similar intervertebral disc prosthesis which has a groove around the contact surfaces in which an elastic ring is embedded that is in contact with the opposite contact area for a better course.

The EP 0 560 141 B1 describes a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis which also consists of two endplates and an interpositioned prosthetic core. The intervertebral disc prosthesis described in this document provides a resistance during rotation of its endplates in opposing directions around a vertical rotary axis without a contact between the prosthetic endplates. This is achieved by a soft limitation of the endplates during rotation onto the prosthesis core caused by the weight which acts on the plates as a result of the biomechanical load transfer within the spine because the corresponding radii of curvature differ in a median sagittal and frontal transection.

The above mentioned models are permanently anchored in the intervertebral spaces as implants. Especially due to a load transfer over too small surface areas a migration of the endplates into the vertebral bodies and thus a dislocation of the complete implant is possible in middle to long term resulting in artificial stress for the vertebral bodies and the adjacent nerves and in the end for the total motion segment and leading to new complaints of the patients. The long term stability of the polyethylene and the restricted mobility of the intervertebral disc prosthesis due to an inappropriate load on the polyethylene within the intervertebral space have to be discussed. Insufficiently adapted ranges of motion and adverse biomechanical stress in the motion segment can possibly lead to persistence of the complaints or later on to new complaints of the patients.

The U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 068 B2 on the other hand describes an intervertebral disc prosthesis comprising an upper and lower part in which the parts are built correspondently towards each other. No intermediate part as middle sliding partner exists. Different designs are realized for the interdigitating and articulating partners resulting in a two part prosthesis. The design is however limited to structures having either edges or corners so that this way both parts of the prosthesis articulate with each other in this case it is not possible to speak of sliding partners. Furthermore two sliding partners are described having one convex part towards the interior of the prosthesis and the other sliding partner is correspondingly shaped concavely. This kind of prosthesis however allows restricted movements of the artificial intervertebral disc only. The concave protuberance corresponds to a part of a ball with the according radius. The U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 068 B2 further shows a two part disc prosthesis having convex and concave partial areas on each sliding partner corresponding to concave and convex partial areas of the other sliding partner. According to the disclosure of the U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 068 B2 several fixed points of rotation are generated.

The U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 discloses a two part disc prosthesis in which the two endplates articulate with each other by a ball and socket joint. The joint is located centrally in the frontal section. In a lateral view the small area of articulation is positioned outside the middle. The articulation areas are spherical in a sagittal view and plane in a frontal view at the ends small and partly spherical parts are followed by plane skewed ones these parts have no contact when the other parts of the joint are in contact. Bending to one side with a prosthesis according to the U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 is achieved by use of the partly spherical edge of the articulation areas. Whether the lateral inner parts of the endplates come into contact with each other cannot be clearly discerned from the U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031. At least during one lateral motion the laterally outwardly opened areas in the bilateral part of the articulation areas do not come into contact. Therefore during lateral bending of the endplates according to the U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 the pressure is partly on the spherical edges of the articulation areas only. Because of the pressure distribution only onto points or small areas during side bending the outer parts of the convex concave parts are exposed to greater abrasion. The edges of the prosthesis also do not have contact over a large area during the different movements. If the prosthesis according to the U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 provides rotation around a vertical axis there is only a bilateral punctiform contact area between the upper and lower endplates.

Thus there is a need for an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of intervertebral discs with which the extent of the movement can be specifically adapted to the anatomy and biomechanics of the lumbar and cervical spine. This is achieved by the design of the edges of the prosthesis by being such that a physiological motion and at the same time as large as possible a contact region of the sliding partners is provided.

This need is addressed by the present invention. The invention comprises two different types of an intervertebral disc prosthesis namely a functionally two part and a functionally three part prosthesis.

Both prostheses have in common that they comprise of articulation sliding partners of which each upper sliding partner is firmly assembled to an upper vertebral body and each lower sliding partner is firmly assembled to a lower vertebral body and that the sliding partners form interdigitating articulations areas on their toward each other directed inner surfaces. Upper and lower sliding partner of a three part prosthesis as well as both sliding partners of a two part prosthesis at the same time act as endplates having means for assembly to an upper or lower vertebral body.

The two part prosthesis can be of advantage for the lumbar spine in prosthetic implantations in multiple adjacent intervertebral spaces because of its model immanent stability. The three part intervertebral disc prosthesis has the advantage that the transversal sliding of two neighboring vertebrae is minimal resulting in a particularly advantageous adaptation to the bio mechanics of the motion segment particularly for the lumbar spine. Furthermore the three part prosthesis enables the simulation of an inconstant center of rotation.

With respect to the presented invention the three body axes are described by the following terms A sagittal section or a view in the sagittal plane enables a lateral view because the section plane runs vertically from the front to the back. The term front is synonymous with ventral and the term back with dorsal because using these terms the orientation of the prosthesis within the body is indicated. A frontal section or the frontal plane is a vertical cross section from one side to the other. The term lateral stands for sidewise. Sagittal and frontal sections are vertical sections as they both run in a vertical plane but 90 degrees displaced from one another. A view in the transversal plane or a transversal section shows a top view onto the prosthesis as it is a horizontal section.

With respect to the description and depiction of the presented invention an articulation area signifies that region of the sliding partners which comprises the curved convex and concave parts of the surfaces which come into contact or articulate with each other. Because of this the articulation area is synonymous with the term sliding area.

The term corresponding with respect to the articulating sliding surfaces designates not only congruent convex and concave shaped surfaces articulating with each other. Moreover this term also designates articulating surfaces that are not completely congruent. Such deviations or tolerances regarding the sliding surfaces of articulating sliding partners can be caused on the one hand by the chosen materials and shapes. On the other hand it may also be intended that convexity and the concavity articulating with it are not totally congruent for instance in order to designate the respectively wished for possibilities of motion of the articulating partners directly.

With respect to the presented invention an edge indicates an area located between outer rim of the particular sliding partner and its convexity ies or concavity ies .

In the case of a two and three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention the concavities of upper and lower sliding partners are each enclosed by an edge whereas the convexities of the middle sliding partner of a three part prosthesis span across the complete upper and lower side i.e. the convexities are without edge or the convexities are each surrounded by an edge. The edges are either in their entire breadth of the same or differing heights or wavelike with the differences in height of a wavelike edge changing fluently and or in one or more steps. If in the case of a three part prosthesis the middle sliding partner has a wavelike edge the edges of upper and lower sliding partners may be designed without wavelike pattern because the wavelike shape of the edge of the middle sliding partner is sufficient to define the maximal motion amplitudes of the sliding partners in ventral dorsal and both lateral directions.

It is important for the design of the surfaces of the edges that during the terminal inclination of the sliding partners toward each other a maximally possible contact between the edges of the sliding partners is guaranteed. Should the edges not have a plane surface the have to in any case be designed in such a way that when they close towards each other a maximally possible contact arises between them. In these cases an edge may have a wavelike shape which surrounds a convexity or concavity up to the outer rim of the edge. It may also have a wavelike shape which is rotated by 90 degrees compared to the previous although this is not exclusive or definite and moves from inside to outside. The last stated wavelike shape from inside to outside is meant to also signify a circular bow shaped or curved design for the edge as per invention.

For a two part as well as a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention aspects of at least one sliding partner arise as a result of the design of the edge regions of the sliding partners as per invention in which a wavelike shape of the edge can be seen because the differently high edge regions transit seamlessly or in one or more steps. As per invention it is preferred for the two and three part prosthesis that as a result of the wavelike design of at least one edge of a sliding partner the maximally possible motion of the sliding partners towards each other is always larger in dorsoventral direction than in a laterolateral direction.

An important advantage of certain embodiments of both intervertebral disc prostheses as per invention compared to prostheses known from the present state of the art is that during central load transfer over a large surface area as a result of the spherical sliding surface s the maximally possible inclination of the sliding partners towards each other in laterolateral and dorsoventral directions can be defined by the design as per invention of the differently high edge regions whose surrounding breadth of a edge is equal or different with the breadths of the edges of the sliding partners are uniform or variable. The differently high edge regions transit seamlessly and or stepwise and it is solely possible by virtue of the resulting wavelike edge of at least one sliding partner to allow the maximal laterolateral motion possibility to a lesser degree than the maximally possible inclination of the sliding partners towards each other in a dorsoventral direction. This correlates to the natural situation of an intact motion segment of a healthy lumbar and cervical spine where the inclination and reclination is always clearly to a larger extent possible than the bending to the sides. Thus by virtue of the prosthesis as per invention a situation with respect to the maximally possible angles of inclination in the different directions is created within the motion segment which comes very close to the physiological motion possibilities of inclination reclination and lateral bending.

It is also feasible that as a result of the design of the edge regions of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention the angles of inclination may be purposely adapted to the necessities that have to be considered for a patient who is to have the prosthesis implanted. In such a way by virtue of the design of the edge region as per invention a lateral angle of inclination of 0 degrees could also be set in the extreme case. As the prosthesis as per invention is to have as physiological as possible a motion and the resulting impossible bending is not physiological the 0 motion presents an extreme exception for the design of the edge only.

It is also intended for a three part prosthesis as per invention that the maximally possible angles of inclination of the upper and lower sliding partners are set solely with the wavelike edges of the middle sliding partner. This gives the possibility to only exchange the middle sliding partner with a sliding partner with a different edge design for the adaptation to the spine. The sliding partners assembled to the vertebral bodies do not need to be exchanged but can remain within the patient thus foreclosing damage to the vertebral bodies as a result of their removal.

As a result of the respective limitation of the motion possibilities of the edges as per invention an advantageous extra protection of the facet joints is achieved because they no longer need to limit the over proportionate motion within the intervertebral space as is to be found in prostheses with spherical sliding surfaces and always equally high edge of the sliding partners. As a result of this an extreme or wrong stress on the facet joints can be mostly avoided.

With respect to the rotation of the sliding partners towards each other around a fictitious vertical axis a free rotation of the sliding partners towards each other may theoretically be possible if for instance only one sliding partner has a wavelike edge depending on the design of the edge region or the shaping of the wavelike regions and the position of the respective maxima of these waves . If however the edge regions of both sliding partners of a sliding area are designed in wavelike manner it is possible that a specific motion is permitted and then a soft limitation of the rotation takes place because the raisings and deepenings of the edges are rotated against each other and the prosthesis is untwisted against the load bearing down on the sliding partners. This is comparable with the guiding tracks of a screw cap where the pitches are twisted against each other as well. The limitation of the rotation leads to an improved physiological situation within the motion segment particularly of the facet joints because in vivo an axial rotation is only possible to a little extent.

In an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention the maximally possible angle of inclination at the same time aperture angle of the sliding partners toward each other depends on the height of the spherical convexities with respect to their surrounding edges as well as the respective height inclination and wavelike shaping of the edge surrounding the convexities and concavities.

Regarding the material of the prosthesis as per invention it is intended that the sliding partners are built as a single piece or at least one sliding partner comprises at least two permanent or firmly but reversibly attached parts whereas the convexity ies and or the concavity ies are the parts being permanent or firmly but reversibly assembled to the corresponding sliding partner or the convexity ies and or concavity ies have suitable means for a permanent assembly or firm assembly having reversiblity whereby with each other connected parts comprise the same or different materials or the surfaces of the parts are coated equally or differently. As suitable means for the assembly adaptations of the shape of the parts to be connected as per invention are intended such as recesses or plane broadenings as part of the edge or being the whole edge. Depending on the chosen design the respective sliding partner and or convexity and or concavity as well as the edge are designated as parts that are to be connected. In addition it is planned for a middle sliding partner that it results from the assembly of the respective parts.

In case that an intervertebral disc prosthesis comprises permanent or firmly but reversibly attached parts it is intended that the assembly is achieved by a tongue and groove assembly a track and corresponding recess a snap mechanism by gluing or screwing.

For a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention it is intended that upper and lower sliding partner comprise the same material or are equally coated and the middle sliding partner is made of a different material or is differently coated. It is also intended that all three sliding partners comprise the same material or are coated equally.

The sliding partners are manufactured from well established materials in implantation techniques for instance upper and lower sliding partner are made of rustproof metal and the middle sliding partner of medicinal polyethylene. Other combinations of materials are also possible. The use of other alloplastic materials which may also be bio active is intended too. The sliding partners are high gloss polished at their communicating contact areas to minimize abrasion low friction principle . Furthermore a coating of the respective sliding partners with appropriate materials is also planned. Favoured materials are titanium titanium alloys titanium carbide alloys of cobalt and chrome or other appropriate metals tantalum or appropriate tantalum alloys suitable ceramic materials as well as suitable plastics or compound materials.

In a favored design of a three part prosthesis as per invention the spherical cap shaped convexities on their upper and lower sides of the middle sliding partner have identical or differing radii as well as the corresponding concavities in the upper and lower sliding partners. This increases the possibilities of the adaptation of the motion radii of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention to the physiological motion radii.

In the case of identical as well as differing radii of curvature of the upper and lower side of a middle sliding partner the maximal height of the convexities on upper and lower side of the middle sliding partner is the same or different. Depending on the design the height of the edge of a middle sliding partner is reduced by the same amount as the height of the convexity ies or the height of the edge remains the same or differs from the change of height of the convexity ies and by virtue of this the maximal height of the convexities of the upper and lower side remain the same or are different.

By this measure as per invention it is possible to reduce the total height of the whole prosthesis. Such a flatter prosthesis is particularly intended for the implantation in the cervical spine. It is however also feasible that such a flat prosthesis be applied for the lumbar region if the intervertebral spaces are of a low height. On the whole by this measure as per invention the possibility is given to adapt the prosthesis to the height of an intervertebral space by the selection of the respectively high middle sliding partner.

For the intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention a maximal aperture angle of 6 10 including for example 6 7 6 8 6 9 7 8 7 9 7 10 8 9 or 8 10 during one sided gap closure of the sliding partners during extension or flexion and of 0 6 including for example UP to about 5 up to about 4 up to about 3 up to about 2 and up to 1 during one sided lateral gap closure is intended although 0 bending to the side presents more of an extreme and at least 3 bending should be enabled by the prosthesis. The concrete maximal ranges of motion can be constructively adapted for the lumbar and cervical spine without the need of an individual prosthesis for every single intervertebral disc. The aperture angles correspond to the natural segment mobility and are reached by suitable choices of convexities and concavities in connection with the design of the surrounding edges see above . To compensate for the tolerances within the motion segment an additional 3 will be included for every direction of motion.

For a functional two part as well as for a functional three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention a limited rotation of the sliding partners towards each other around a fictitious vertical axis of up to 3 degrees including up to about 2 degrees and up to about 1 degree for the lumbar spine and up to 6 degrees including up to about 5 degrees up to about 4 degrees up to about 3 degrees up to about 2 degrees and up to about 1 degree for the cervical spine is intended to each side by virtue of the shaping of the edges as per invention. To compensate for tolerances within the motion segment an additional 2 degrees to each side will be included.

Furthermore a shift of up to 4 mm up to 3 mm up to 2 mm or up to 1 mm away from a midline sagittal section to dorsal of the convexity ies and corresponding concavity ies is intended in a two and three part intervertebral disc prostheses as per invention. A dorsally displaced centre of rotation above all corresponds to the physiological situation of the transition between lumbar spine and sacral bone on the other hand parallel to that the differences correlating to the physiological situation between the possible angles of inclination during extension and flexion are thus reached.

It is further intended that the edges of the sliding partners outwardly close rectangularly otherwise inclined curved combined straight curved and or angled. Particularly in the case of a three part prosthesis a design is feasible in which the upper and lower side of the sliding core simply end perpendicularly or curved towards each other in their periphery and in which the breadth of the edge is not substantially differently designed compared to the upper and lower sliding partner. Thus the middle sliding partner can remain in between the upper and lower sliding partner during terminal inclination too. By virtue of this a compact and economic w.r.t. space construction of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention is possible.

A slip out of the middle sliding partner out of this compact design of a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention is on one hand prevented by the motion adapted heights of the convexity ies and the corresponding concavity ies starting with the edge around the articulation areas and on the other hand by the gap closure between the edges of the sliding partners at terminal inclination. The convexities and the wave form in the edge region are designed in such a way that the convexities interdigitate deeply enough into the articulating concavities particularly during reclination. A sufficient opening of the whole prosthesis post operatively which is a prerequisite for a slip out of the middle sliding partner is thus not possible.

Furthermore it is intended as per invention that in the case of a middle sliding partner of a three part prosthesis as an additional safeguard a stop as a part of the outer edge of the middle sliding partner is provided against a slip out slip away or slip aside luxation out of the prosthesis during gap closure of all three sliding partners. The stop of the middle sliding partner is located next to the periphery of the upper and or lower sliding partner and it is higher at least on the upper or the lower side than the edge of the middle sliding partner.

This stop as an additional safeguard against a slip out slip away or slip aside luxation out of the prosthesis can as per invention also be designed in such a way that it is a part of the edge of the middle sliding partner. It is higher than the edge of the middle sliding partner at the upper or lower side and is lead within a groove in the edge of the upper and or the lower sliding partner with the necessary liberty for the maximal sliding motion of the sliding partners.

As per invention a stop is an outwardly directed extension of the edge of a middle sliding partner which because of its embodiment as result of its design is suited to prevent a slip out of the middle sliding partner out of the concavities of the upper and lower sliding partner. It is not necessary that a stop encloses the middle sliding partner completely because this could result in a limitation of the maximal mobility of all sliding partners where required it is rather arranged in defined distances or opposite of positions of the edge which represent possible positions for a slip out of the middle sliding partner. If the stop is higher on the upper and lower side than the edge of the middle sliding partner it can for instance be shaped like a drawing pin sticking with the tip from outside into the edge so that the head of the drawing pin juts out over the upper and lower edge of the middle sliding partner and prevents a slip out of the middle sliding partner during a terminal inclination in direction of the drawing pin by stopping its movement via contact to the upper and lower sliding partner.

If a stop as a safeguard to prevent slip out is part of the edge of a sliding partner the height of the convexity depends only with regard to the anatomy and the material properties on the required maximal inclination angles which are also influenced by this see above .

A stop to secure the middle sliding partner of a three part prosthesis is advantageously shaped in such a way that it is part of the contact areas during terminal inclination of the edges of the sliding partners. Due to this fact the stop functions not only as a safeguard but it additionally increases the load bearing area during terminal inclination of the sliding partners the advantages of this have already been described. The possibility for such a design however depends crucially on the external shape of the upper and lower sliding partner and the respective breadth of the edges of the convexity and concavity.

In a further design of a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis it is intended that the height of the middle sliding partner partly or totally continuously increases beginning from the transition area between the convexity and the edge up unto the peripheral edge area. This is intended without the size of the aperture angle changing as a result of an adaptation to the height of the edge of the upper and lower sliding partner. This dovetail shape of the edge of the middle sliding partner increases the safeguard against dislocation.

As per invention a shape for the upper and lower sliding partner is intended for a three part prosthesis in which the peripheral edge areas are complete or partly hook shaped perpendicular otherwise angular curved or a combination thereof in direction of the other peripheral sliding partner. In this design the edge of the middle sliding partner is narrower there so that the middle sliding partner is partly or completed covered by the features of one or both outer sliding partners in order to prevent a slip out of the middle sliding partner. Advantageously the edge of the middle sliding partner is adapted in such a way to the shape of the edge of the outer sliding partners that during terminal gap closure as high as possible an area of the articulating sliding partners comes into contact.

Further it is intended for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention that the outer circumferences of the upper and lower sliding partner may taper off from dorsal to ventral lumbar spine or from ventral to dorsal cervical spine in a transversal view. This tapering off of the outer circumferences of the upper and lower sliding partner may laterally be in the form of identical curves and is preferably a segment of a circle. Where necessary area and shape of the outer circumference of the upper and lower sliding partner can be equal or unequal and thus adapted by this to the size of the respective vertebral body with which they will be assembled.

The tapering off shape of the circumference of the upper and lower sliding partner the prosthetic plates on the whole corresponds to the usable area of a vertebral body in a transversal view and leads in that way to an optimal use of the area at disposal for anchoring of upper and lower sliding partner with the aim of a large area for load transfer.

Adaptations to the sliding partners as per invention of the intervertebral disc prosthesis are further intended in which upper and or lower sliding partner are built in such a way in a frontal and or sagittal section that the out and inside of the upper and or lower sliding partner are parallel or unparallel to each other. By this measure an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention can be adapted to vertebral body endplates which are not standing parallel in a frontal view or which in a sagittal view should form an optimal lordosis and positioning of the sliding areas.

It is further intended that in a two and three part design as per invention the convexity two part prosthesis or the middle sliding partner three part prosthesis is parallel or unparallel with respect to a fictitious horizontal. In the case of an unparallel design the upper and lower sides stand in an angle with respect to a fictitious horizontal with the angles being the same above and below or different with a middle sliding partner. The convexity ies and corresponding concavity ies in the two and three part prosthesis are symmetrical or asymmetrical in their surface design. By virtue of the angular convexity or the angular middle sliding partner adaptations to asymmetries of the intervertebral space into which the prosthesis will be implanted are also possible.

For a secure anchorage of the implants within the intervertebral space an edge and or plane interdigitation of the exterior sides of the upper and lower sliding partner serves for the connection with an upper and lower vertebral body. The exterior sides themselves are flat or convex in shape and it is possible to coat the interdigitation or the vertebra directed surfaces with or without interdigitation bio actively or bluntly. To minimize the risk of a fracture of the vertebral body an anchorage with three ventrally positioned and two dorsally positioned anchoring teeth is preferred. As an alternative laterally continuously arranged rows of teeth are favoured for an improved guidance of the upper and lower sliding partner during implantation between the vertebral bodies because the forceps of the surgeon can grip in the middle gap between the rows of teeth or into holes of the upper and lower sliding partner at level with the teeth.

To facilitate implantation or explantation of the intervertebral disc prosthesis the upper and or lower sliding partner is furbished with a provision for instruments in a further design. These provisions preferably comprise holes or moulds into which the required instrument of the surgeon can grip so that a secure fixation of the respective sliding partner is possible.

Furthermore as absolute measurements for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention a maximal breadth frontal view of 14 to 48 mm including about 16 mm about 18 mm about 20 mm about 22 mm about 24 mm about 26 mm about 28 mm about 30 mm about 32 mm about 34 mm about 36 mm about 38 mm about 40 mm about 42 mm about 44 mm or about 46 mm a maximal depth sagittal view of 11 to 35 mm including about 13 about 15 mm about 17 mm about 19 mm about 21 mm about 23 mm about 25 mm about 27 mm about 29 mm about 31 mm about 33 mm and a maximal height of 4 to 18 mm including about 6 mm about 8 mm about 10 mm about 12 mm about 14 mm or about 16 mm is intended. These measurements are orientated to the natural conditions of the lumbar and cervical spine and assure that the situation with an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention comes very close to the in vivo situation.

Further for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per invention one or more X ray contrast giving markers are provided which are located under the surface of each of the non X ray contrast giving parts of the prosthesis. That way it is possible to exactly control the position of these parts of the intervertebral disc prosthesis after the implantation. Furthermore it is possible to check if these parts have changed their position or if they are still in the right position in defined timely intervals.

Further useful measures are described in the dependent claims the invention is described in the following by examples and figures.

In the models depicted in and b the height of the edge of the middle sliding partner is the same around the convexities of the upper and lower side of the middle sliding partner . The edges A and B of the upper and lower sliding partner are constructed laterally higher than dorsally and ventrally. The transitions between the different heights of the edges A and B are seamlessly so that a wavelike shape of the edges A and B arises. This wavelike shape effects the desired laterolateral lesser possible angle of inclination compared to the dorsoventral inclination of the sliding partners towards each other.

The concavity is located in the middle or alternatively displaced up to 4 mm dorsally not shown here . This is correspondingly constructed to the convexity which is shaped like the cap of a sphere . Because of the differently high edges A B which completely enclose the concavity the concavity does not appear as a circle but rather as a dorsally and ventrally flattened round shape.

The each schematically show a top view onto alternative designs of the circumference of upper and lower sliding partner . The small letters indicate the orientation with respect to the dorsoventral alignment of the plates for the lumbar spine d dorsal v ventral which is however reversed for the cervical spine v dorsal d ventral .

The show alternative arrangements of the anchoring teeth on the outside of the upper and lower sliding partner . Again the orientation of the sliding partners with respect to the dorsoventral alignment is indicated by the small letter d dorsal v ventral . Dorsally there are no anchoring teeth intended in the middle because this results on one hand in protecting the vertebral bodies and on the other hand it facilitates the implantation. For the cervical spine the reversed orientation is also without middle dorsal anchoring teeth .

In the prosthesis is depicted during axial rotations. To the far left and to the far right a rotation can be seen in which the middle sliding partner is in a zero position and the upper sliding partner is rotating in a clockwise and the lower sliding partner in an anticlockwise direction. In the second figure from the left the rotation of upper and lower sliding partners is reverse. In the middle the prosthesis can be seen without rotation. The two right parts of the figure each show top views of the axial rotations.

The designs depicted in the illustrations of the intervertebral disc prostheses for a two part as well as for a three part prosthesis above are exemplary only. Once given the above disclosure many other features modifications and improvements will become apparent to the skilled artisan. Such other features modifications and improvements are therefore considered to be part of this invention.

