---

title: Visualization technique for biological information
abstract: Method/system for visualizing biological information. The system receives a user query relating to biological information and determines which database contains related biological information. A database query is sent to the database and the result indicates biological/chemical entities and relations. A network is created based on the result; biological/chemical entities are mapped to network nodes and relations to network connections. A distance matrix indicates a multi-dimensional distance for several pairs of network nodes. A dimensionality reduction function is adjusted based on a research context, to bias the search toward a relevant focus. The number of dimensions in the distance matrix is lowered by the dimensionality reduction function. Neighbors of a selected node are searched (-) based on the distance matrix to elucidate a biological role of the selected node. A re-created network is visualized (-) based on the adjusted dimensionality reduction function.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572064&OS=08572064&RS=08572064
owner: Valtion Teknillinen Tutkimuskeskus
number: 08572064
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20060426
---
The invention relates to visualization techniques for visualizing biological information. It is customary to organize biological relations as one or more pathways or networks. An exemplary system is disclosed in Hass L et al IBM Systems Journal 40 p. 489 511. The system described in this article exhibits certain shortcomings however.

Historically the decomposition of biology into different disciplines was necessary to tackle the complexity of life science systems by reducing the degree of complexity down to the most basic level. With the advent of systems biology such separation of biology is increasingly becoming artificial. But the long history of separating biology to different disciplines hampers attempts to integrate biological information. For instance different databases often use mutually incompatible naming conventions and vocabularies. Attempts to solve such problems have been based on ontologies and semantic web technologies such as XML eXtendible Markup Language and RDF Resource Description Framework .

The ontology based technologies attack the incompatibility problem at a relatively low level and only solves problems caused by the different naming conventions and vocabularies. The ontology based technologies are unable to solve problems relating to problems caused by different context ie entities that may appear closely related in one context may be further apart in another. Another problem of known visualization systems is that they require extensive knowledge of the various software tools and databases.

An object of the present invention is to provide a method and an apparatus for implementing the method so as to alleviate the above disadvantages. The object of the invention is achieved by the methods and equipment which are characterized by what is stated in the independent claims. The preferred embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the dependent claims.

An aspect of the invention is a method according to claim . Another aspect of the invention is a computer program product which comprises program routines for executing the method when the computer program product is executed in a computer system. Yet another aspect of the invention is a computer system which comprises such a computer program product.

The invention is at least partially based on the idea of extending the concept of network such that a large variety of biological entities can be mapped to network nodes and interrelations between the entities can be mapped to inter node connections.

The invention is also based on a smart and integrated database query engine that is able to determine which of several databases contains the biological information relevant to a user s query. The result of the database query or results from several queries is are mapped to an information network such that the biological entities are mapped to network nodes and the relations to network connections.

The invention is further based on a determining a distance matrix for indicating a distance between several pairs of network nodes wherein each distance is measured across several dimensions. For instance the distance matrix can be implemented as a data structure with two input values. The output of the data structure is a multi dimensional distance between two entities that correspond to the two input values. The several dimension can be mapped to physical coordinates or similarity or correlation quantities or to any combination of such variables.

A distance function is then applied to map the multidimensional distance matrix to a smaller number of dimensions. For example a three dimensional distance matrix can be mapped to a two dimensional one. Neighbours of a selected network node are searched based on the mapped distance matrix.

The distance function is adjusted depending on context. For example a distance function optimized for diabetes research may not be optimal for cancer research because even the same proteins may be involved in different mechanisms and pathways related to the two diseases which is why the function of the protein can context dependent. The network is then re created and visualized based on the adjusted distance function.

An advantage of the smart database retrieval engine is that the user needs to specify only what kind of information he she is interested in without having to specify what database the information is located in.

An advantage of the adjustable distance function is that elements that are strongly interrelated in the user s current context are also topologically close to each other in the visualized network.

In an embodiment of the invention the distance function is based on network topology ie a measure of connectivity. For instance the distance function between two entities may be a three dimensional vector representation of a shortest path between the two entities.

Instead of network topology or in addition to it the distance function may be based on relationships derived from experimental data. An advantage of this feature is that the similarities derived from experimental data can complement the existing knowledge and through that provide a framework for generating new knowledge on complex biological processes.

In an embodiment of the invention the user interface provides the user with means for determining the distance s as part of the database query. This is beneficial since the distance basically determines the context of the questions posed by the user. Is further allows biasing the similarity toward particular types of relationships or towards a relationship in a specific context. Once the distance measure is specified the system can map the network nodes into a lower dimensional space. Because the mapping is approximate it will introduce some distortion. Therefore the exact form of the mapping is not critical as long as it emphasizes relationships in the context graph. It is ultimately the end result of the data mining that determines the utility of a specific distance measure and the user is preferably provided with an option to experiment with several different distance measures.

Sammon s mapping is a good mapping scheme for network visualization. It maps the network graph nonlinearly into a lower dimensional space while preserving the inter node distances across the network. It is not a perfect choice for interactive addition of new nodes however because the mapping of the entire sub network must be recomputed each time a new node is added. For interactive network construction or editing multidimensional scaling methods see Torgerson 1952 a list of references is at the end of this description or self organizing maps Kohonen 2001 can be used. The non metric multidimensional scaling method disclosed by Cox and Cox is focused on preserving the order of similarities and appears to be promising mapping scheme in connection with the present invention.

In this embodiment a first local database stores ontology data and metadata in XML language which is easily parsed by computers. A suitable Linux server system for storing such data is sold under the name of Tamino by Software AG. The external databases are queried using Tamino XQuery which is an implementation of XQuery language. In one implementation the queries are passed via a Java API application programming interface in the Tamino server. A second local database stores more voluminous data such as gene expression data or mass spectrometry data. The second local database can be implemented by Oracle technology and queried via Java Database Connectivity JDBC for example.

The query parsing and processing blocks support parallel data retrieval across multiple external databases. The graph and network analysis block processes the results of the database queries and present the results as a network or multiple subnetworks. The nodes of the network represent biological or chemical entities such as proteins genes compounds DNA binding sites or the like. Inter node connections have associated attributes which contain information about one or more of the following types of relationships quantitative of semantic information such as is located in in case of a linking a protein with a complex entity such as a cell organelle . The query parsing and processing blocks retrieve biological data from the first local database via a Java API interface and from the second local database via JDBC.

The user interface UI in the network processing block NP interacts with the user. The user interface receives input from a user such as navigation and data query instructions. The user input is processed and the processed result is provided as a visualized representation of the biological network. In an illustrative embodiment the user interface block UI is implemented using Java Swing libraries. The network visualization can be implemented by means of visualization toolkits such as Tom Sawyer Visualization Toolkit by Tom Sawyer Inc.

It should be noted however that some or all of the above steps are typically repeated in an iterative process and the order of the steps may be varied to some degree while the results of a previous iteration are applied to the next iteration.

In one implementation the user interface comprises a logic that takes as input a user select node or a set of nodes and permits the user to change options such as a new search depth for the neighbours of the node s . In the resultant subnetwork shape conventions are used to distinguish the type of entity underlying the node s . Colour codes can be used to distinguish the type of the relationship underlying the connections. The resultant subnetwork can be extracted and exported in XML format.

Data from various biological and chemical databases is collected into the local database system. By way of example the embodiment described herein can be used at least in connection with the following databases 

In order to couple an external database into the system certain preparatory acts must be performed. These acts can be described in the form of an algorithm as follows.

In the course of implementing the above steps the inventors have used XMLSPY software Altova Inc. and Tamino Schema Editor software Software AG for the construction and validation of logical and physical schemas respectively. The required parsers can be implemented in Perl or Java programming languages.

In the embodiment described here database traversals are achieved by applying simple join operations involving the schema maps database . The fact that the schema maps database records contain identifiers and names of one or more entities from all databases ensures that a join operation between appropriate databases and rightly chosen entities will always return a non empty result. The querying of a database independent of the names used in it can be achieved by writing two phase queries to first search the schema maps database to find out the name ID number of the entity in the original database and then search the original database with the correct name ID number.

Another problem is caused by often changing data structures in public databanks. In a further preferred embodiment of the invention this problem is solved by keeping the logical schemas as minimal as possible yet useful enough to support observation of associations between all the data sources.

For instance a concept can be the name of biological process or information on localization within a cell or specific tissue. The context in turn describes the user s domain of relevance as expressed in query such as is related to diabetes or is localized within the adipose tissue .

Property of similarity plays an important role in any perception and formation of new concepts. To this end the network visualization tool should be able to evaluate similarity or its inverse quantity distance between any two entities. It should be understood that distance as a measure of similarity is not a straightforward geometrical two or three dimensional quantity but involves a large number of dimensions. By way of example such dimensions can mean relationships of different types ie chemical reactions protein protein interactions gene sequence comparisons or more complex relationships like protein localization gene phenotype association or compound properties. The task of evaluating similarity or distance becomes more complex with increasing number of dimensions.

While distances within the molecular networks can be intuitively set to the length of the shortest path between the molecules distance measure is less obvious for relationships such as in ontologies. A gene ontology can be represented as a graph or tree. In the case of an ontology tree for example we can assign a distance based on the closest common ancestor in the graph. When combining multiple relationships and corresponding distance measures reasonable normalization of distance values has to be set in order to be able to compare across heterogeneous data sources. The distances between entities that do not have a direct relationship are then calculated as the lengths of the shortest paths with the distance weighted connection as explained in the description of .

After distance normalization an importance factor and hence distance bias can be assigned to any particular relationship type whereby context sensitivity can be achieved as described in connection with . When visualizing such complex data it is often beneficial to lower the number of dimensions ie to project the complex data into a space with fewer dimensions. In doing so it is important to preserve distances. This means that any two samples that are close to each other in the original space should stay close to each other when projected. Conversely two entities that are close to each other in the projected space must have come from samples that were close to each other in the original space. This type of mapping is referred to as Sammon s mapping which is implemented in a preferred embodiment of the network visualization routine .

Visual configuration of entities can be estimated with a gradient descent type of algorithm on a cost function based on the inter point distances between the entities in the original space and the introduced discrepancies when applying the dimensionality reducing mapping. In this way the visual configuration approximates the original relationships in the complex networks. This kind of distance preservation is also used in self organizing maps SOM invented by Teuvo Kohonen.

The invention is applicable to the study of metabolic pathways enriched with information about known molecular interactions at the level of protein protein interactions regulatory and signalling networks. illustrate the results of query processing. In reference numeral denotes an exemplary query in which the slash character is part of the pathway name Glycolysis Gluconeogenesis .

In this example the query was set up to first search the KEGG database shown as external databases in and retrieve the primary components of the pathways ie enzymes and compounds. In a second phase the database traversals were used to search protein protein interaction databases BIND and MINT for interactions of the enzymes with the nearest neighbour proteins ie interaction search depth was set to one. Reference numeral denotes the resulting network which shows a surprisingly high level of connectivity across different stages of linear metabolic pathways via protein protein interactions.

Reference numeral denotes a region which is shown magnified in . In the region the focus is on two enzymes from the glycolysis pathway Phosphoglycerate kinase PGK EC 2.7.2.3 denoted by reference numeral and Acetate CoA ligase ACS EC 6.2.1.1 denoted by reference numeral . ACS catalyses formation of acetyl CoA from acetate which as a starting point in the TCA cycle while PGK catalyses acetylation of 3 phospho D glycerate which is part of the second phase of glycolysis. Both enzymes appear to aggregate with SRB2 denoted by reference numeral .

Notably SRB2 is involved in transcriptional initiation. This could mean that PGK and ACS enzymes at two different stages of glycolysis are coregulated.

Assignment of protein function is a non trivial task due to the fact that the same proteins may be involved in different biological processes depending on the state of the biological system and protein localization. Therefore protein function is dependent on context. The protein neighbourhood ie the entities of the network close to the protein may provide an insight about the protein function and its way of action. The entities can be either molecules genes or more complex concepts and the proximity is measured by applying the distance measure. This example involved a search of the neighbourhood of Mannose 6 phosphate isomerase for PMI40 UniProt Id P29952 which catalyses the conversion between fructose 6 phosphate and mannose 6 phosphate and thus connects glycolysis with the cell wall synthesis in . The search involved concurrent retrieval of relationships for the following databases UniProt KEGG BIND MINT and GO Biological Process shown as external databases in . For any nearest neighbour protein protein association such as protein protein interaction or sharing the same GO class at the lowest level the distance was set to 1. In case of metabolic pathways the weight of each connection was set to 0.5 in the direction of possible reaction. Search depth was set to two nearest proteins if the first of the connections was a protein protein interaction and to the nearest protein otherwise. This included cases where the nearest protein was connected to the search protein via the compound in metabolic pathways or the lowest level GO term. Reference numeral denotes the resulting network visualization while reference numeral denotes the mapping of the nearest protein neighbours of PMI40. Sammon s mapping was used in this example.

Reference numeral denotes a zoomed in window of the network visualization . The zoomed in window shows a region of potential interest which includes protein protein interactions between the PMI40 and NUP100 UniProt Id Q02629 which is a subunit of the nuclear pore complex as well as between alpha 1 6 mannosyltransferase MNN10 UniProt Id P50108 and NUP100. According to Gene Ontology GO 0000032 both PMI40 and MNN10 are also involved in cell wall mannoprotein synthesis. While PMI40 is kind of a gate between cell wall synthesis and glycolysis ie cell decision point between growth or energy production MNN10 is a part of the protein complex in mannoprotein synthesis toward the end of the cell wall biosynthesis pathways. Examination of interaction entries BIND Id s 137955 and 137823 respectively suggests that NUP100 protein which is a part of nuclear pore complex binds to the PMI40 and MNN10 open reading frames. This provides support for the gene gating hypothesis which suggests that the interaction of the nuclear pore complex with different genes might serve as a level of gene regulation. One testable hypothesis which is the result of this experiment is that PMI40 and MNN10 are indeed coregulated in relation to cell decision making between energy production vs. growth.

