---

title: Organizational data analysis and management
abstract: Organizational data analysis and management are described, including evaluating an item comprising the organizational data, the item being created in a first application and having a first format, associating the item with the matter based on a type or a classification, and configuring the copy of the item for presentation in an interface associated with a second application using a second format, the copy of the item being configured for selection from within the second application in the first format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07747605&OS=07747605&RS=07747605
owner: 
number: 07747605
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060417
---
The present invention relates generally to software architecture. More specifically organizational data analysis and management are described.

Computer programs and applications applications generate a large amount of information and data. In organizations e.g. private and public sector entities such as corporations not for profit groups government and other regulatory entities or other groups of individuals organized to perform a set of related tasks or functions large amounts of data are created modified deleted saved or retrieved which becomes difficult to manage and analyze in order to perform functions related to specific types of data. Organizations in retail commercial office industrial medical legal and other industries generate large amounts of data. In order to manage this data conventional enterprise and other large scale applications such as document management systems were developed to help organize this data. However conventional applications are problematic.

Conventional applications for organizing large amounts of data often rely upon a structured data storage schema e.g. SQL MySQL Oracle and others that use overlying document management applications to organize and search through large amounts of data. Other conventional applications that organize unstructured data often rely upon indexing or require large amounts of storage and processing resources which is expensive and time consuming to implement and manage. Further conventional applications for structured or unstructured data analysis and organization fail to provide data in any type of format that is useful or efficient. For example if a corporate legal department is aggregating data and information related to a specific matter conventional applications would search structured data based on a data storage schema e.g. SQL MySQL Oracle DB2 and others and unstructured data relying on either indexing of the unstructured data or parsing of text associated with the unstructured data which is time consuming processor intensive and inaccurate. Moreover existing efforts to organize electronic data are based on manual or semi manual efforts to tag or otherwise organize such data which requires significant user intervention. Such user intervention is not only time consuming but also susceptible to human error. Further manual tagging i.e. manually adding metadata is difficult to enforce with respect to data management policies or parameters. Consequently data found in response to search using conventional applications is difficult to use poorly organized and inefficiently presented i.e. displayed on a user interface which leads to additional time and labor being expended to sift through large amounts of data.

Various embodiments or examples may be implemented in numerous ways including as a system a process an apparatus or a series of program instructions on a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network where the program instructions are sent over optical electronic or wireless communication links. In general operations of disclosed processes may be performed in an arbitrary order unless otherwise provided in the claims.

A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited only by the claims and numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided as examples and the described techniques may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of the accompanying details. For clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.

Organizational data analysis and management are described including a computer program or application application that may be used to implement the described techniques. Items e.g. e mails tasks notes calendars dates documents e.g. electronic documents presentations spreadsheets files and other types reminders and others may be associated with a matter. A matter may be a project group of tasks or related functions that may involve one or more items of the same or different types as described above. In some examples associating items with matters or projects may be performed by embedding matter tags into items that include logic and data configured for relating the item to a task. In other examples associations may be established by applying classification logic. Items may be classified using matter tags or classification logic which are configured to manually automatically or semi automatically classify organizational data. When items are created assigned completed sent received modified deleted replied to and others associations may be performed in order to organize and manage data i.e. structured and unstructured data in their native applications using an overlying integrated application to provide efficient and accurate organization and management if for example a search request is executed.

Here logic module may be configured to provide instructions to and direct system to analyze and manage organizational data. For example logic module may via API detect an item that invokes a rule policy or other parameter stored in local storage . The rule policy or other parameter may determine how the item is to be handled including invoking matter tag module to embed a matter tag with the item and sending the associated item to be stored in a remote location using storage interface module . Further if a search or other type of request is made using a given project name client name matter name date range type of item or other parameter then report generation module may be used to generate a report or display on a user interface that lists the item provides a hyperlink link to the item and when the link is clicked on the associated item may be launched in its native application format from a user interface provided for system . In some examples a user interface may be provided or displayed provided that presents organizational data and information in a useful context while enabling items to be presented or provided in their native application formats without requiring the use of separate different applications thus improving efficiency and reducing costs. Further by using matter tags embedded by matter tag module items may be quickly located and provided by system . System and the above described components may be varied and are not limited to the examples provided.

Organizational data analysis and management system may be implemented integrated or included with e mail application office productivity application and project application in order to enable organizational data analysis and management techniques such as those described herein. Organizational data analysis and management system may be implemented with one some none all more or fewer of e mail application office productivity application and project application . Structured and unstructured data may be exchanged between organization data analysis and management system and each of e mail application office productivity application and task project application . In other examples organizational data analysis and management system may be varied and is not limited to the descriptions provided.

Within each sub project items e.g. e mail data calendar data note data task data reminder data and document data may be further classified based on the above described hierarchy. In other industries e.g. product based such as manufacturing commercial industrial and others different types of data may be used to classify organizational data. Classification of data types may be implemented using the techniques described herein including the use of matter tags that are configured with logic for classifying and organizing organizational data. Other types of organizational data may be analyzed managed and used apart from those shown and described and are not limited to the examples shown.

As an example interface may be used to analyze manage organize create new matters and search organizational data. Here interface may be provided to analyze manage organize create new matters and search e mails i.e. a given type of organizational data . Buttons may be depressed or interacted with by using a direct input device e.g. mouse . When depressed or interacted a new matter may be created i.e. pressing button e mails may be searched i.e. depressing button extended searches of e mails may be performed i.e. depressing button statistics may be gathered and displayed graphically or non graphically i.e. depressing button previous displays may be viewed i.e. depressing button or help may be sought i.e. depressing button . When depressed buttons may launch different displays with different options enabling a user to perform a function related to the higher level functions presented by buttons .

For example when creating a new matter a user may enter information related to the new matter in fields . In some examples information about a Party i.e. client including the client name adverse party name matter and project name may be entered in fields . Other information about other Participants i.e. other parties that may be involved or related to the matter may be entered in fields including internal users names external users names clients and opposing counsel. In other examples more less or different information may be provided and are not limited to the examples shown. Information entered in fields may be used to create a matter and when items are detected that are related to the information entered matter tags may be generated and embedded in the items. In some examples matter tags may be e mail addresses that are generated when a matter is created. The matter tags and generated e mail addresses are used to associate items e.g. e mails calendars notes tasks reminders documents and others with a given matter. Further when the items are retrieved for example during a search logic in the matter tag enables a copy of the item to be retrieved from storage location or address and launched in its native format from interface avoiding the use of multiple applications to view a single item. When a search is performed interface may be changed to display different options data information items and the like to support a given association. Interface may be varied and is not limited to the implementation examples shown above. For example more fewer or different fields may be used to replace or supplement fields . For example a manufacturing organization may substitute field with another field that specifies the name of a supplier or OEM provider. As another example a government organization may substitute field with the name of a contractor that is supplying products or services. In still other examples the above described features and functionality associated with interface may be varied replaced supplemented deleted or other modified. Examples of interface for use in a legal organization are described in greater detail below in connection with .

Here listings describing items that relate to the parameters entered in sub displays are displayed in sub display as a search result. Additionally sub display may be configured to include a sender s e mail address e.g. bill abc codemo.com destination e mail address e.g. sam abc codemo.com subject date of transmission tag e.g. tag icon which may be used to indicate the type of item and provide buttons for other actions that may be selected e.g. Reply to or Forward the e mail . In some examples other actions or different information may be provided in sub display . Further interface may be varied in appearance information content and functionality and is not limited to the examples shown and described.

A listing of items that meet the search criteria entered in sub displays may be generated and displayed in sub display . Information such as a destination e mail address sending e mail address subject date tag icon and additional actions using buttons are shown. As an example an e mail from bill abc codemo.com to xyz hotmail.com is found and displayed as a search result in sub display . Additional actions may be taken including replying to the e mail listed by clicking on button or forwarding the e mail by clicking on button . Further tag icon may be used to identify the type of item or whether the item has been tagged i.e. T on tag icon . In other examples different information may be shown in sub display . Further interface may be varied in appearance information content and functionality and is not limited to the examples shown and described.

Items listed in sub display may be displayed along with actions that may be taken e.g. replying or forwarding the item and others by using buttons . Additionally tag icons may be changed or displayed differently to provide additional information about the type of item whether the item has been tagged i.e. associated with a matter and others. In other examples different information may be shown in sub display . Further interface may be varied in appearance information content and functionality and is not limited to the examples shown and described.

An association may result in a tagged item i.e. an association between an item and a matter is established if the item meets a pre determined classification which results in an assigned matter tag being embedded with the item . In other examples an association may result if due to fuzzy classification rules logic or parameters classification logic an association is found to exist between the item and an existing matter i.e. project . Associations may be made by embedding or assigning a matter tag with the item. The matter tag may be embedded or assigned as a wrapper or additional data that is included with the item or appended to header data or metadata that indicates the type of item whether the item should be associated with a matter and if a search is performed in which the item is delivered as a search result how the item should appear in an interface using processes such as those described above in connection with . Matter tags may be embedded as encrypted or unencrypted data to meet various levels of data security for an organization. Further classifications may be used to establish a type of the item which may be indicated using either assigned matter tags or determined as a result of applying fuzzy classification rules or logic that determine whether an item is associated with a matter and what type of classification should be assigned to items that do not fall within assigned matter tag pre determined classification categories. Examples of fuzzy classification logic or rules are described in greater detail below in connection with .

Here classification may be performed automatically semi automatically or manually through an interface. In some examples classification may be performed to provide an association between an item and a matter based on the type of item as determined from data analyzed contained in the document. As an example an e mail may include text such as a client s name a matter or project name or other information that once detected enables matter tags to determine how to handle an item.

For example a matter tag may include data formatted as XXX YYY E which may represent an account or client number i.e. the first three characters XXX a matter or project number i.e. the second three characters YYY and the type of item e.g. E for e mail D for document T for task and the like . As another example matter tags may also include an individual system e mail address to which a copy of the associated item is sent. Once sent to the individual system e mail address items are assembled regardless of their native format and when a search is performed that includes parameters or keywords that match those of the items stored in a given individual system e mail address all of the items are delivered in a search results listing. Once listed items may be selected and launched in their respective native applications from within an interface e.g. interface provided by system . In other examples matter tags may be implemented differently and are not limited to the examples provided. Matter tags are embedded with items to provide associations between the associated items and matters that are created using system through an interface such as interface . Association of items with matters is discussed in greater detail below in connection with .

Referring back to once an item has been associated the item may be assigned a control number . In some examples a control number may be used to index store or retrieve an item stored in storage . After a control number has been assigned the item may be stored e.g. in storage or another data repository . In other examples the above described process may be varied in design implementation execution and is not limited to the examples provided.

If an item was not sent between participants then the sub process ends. However if the item was sent between participants then a determination is made as to whether the item includes information such as the client or project name or the name of an adverse party . If an item includes information such as the client or project name or the name of an adverse party then the item is associated with the matter . If the item does not include a client project or adverse party name then the sub process ends. If the item is associated with the matter under consideration i.e. the matter is identified in pulldown menu of then a determination is made as to whether an unlisted party is referred to by the item as described above . If an unlisted party is described then the unlisted party is added as a participant and the matter tag may be used to further classify future items received from the participant . If the item does not refer to an unlisted party then the sub process ends. In some examples fuzzy classification logic rules or parameters may be implemented differently than as described above. Logic rules or parameters that are used to implement fuzzy classification logic may be established by system default manually entered manually customized automatically or semi automatically customized modified based on user intervention or otherwise modified beyond the descriptions provided above. In some examples customization of fuzzy classification logic rules or parameters may vary the accuracy of a search particular when a user is searching for particular items associated with a given matter. The above described sub process may be varied and is not limited to the examples provided.

Here the item is associated with the matter under consideration using the assigned matter tag and the process ends . However if an item is received that does not have an embedded matter tag then a determination is made as to whether fuzzy classification logic indicates that an item should be associated with a matter . As described above fuzzy classification logic may refer to logic e.g. logic module that performs sub processes such as those described above in connection with to determine whether an item should be associated with a matter. In some examples fuzzy classification logic may be performed by analyzing source key words contained in the items. For example source key words may be found in data included in the content of an item or in metadata describing the item. If fuzzy classification logic determines that a matter tag should be assigned then matter tag module associates the item with a matter using a matter tag .

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation.

The term computer readable medium refers to any physical medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Physical transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus .

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions may be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PSTN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution.

The foregoing examples have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding but are not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways and techniques for implementation. The disclosed examples are illustrative and not restrictive.

