---

title: Image-guided therapy delivery and diagnostic needle system
abstract: An automated system for delivery of seeds or other therapeutic or diagnostic capsules to internal organs of the patient's body for radiation brachytherapy includes a needling mechanism, a 2DOF robot, an ultrasound probe driver, a 5DOF passive platform, and an easy lock cart. The needling mechanism implants radioisotope seeds by its cannula and stylet driven by two moving stages pushed by DC motors with ball screw transmission. Force sensors are included for detecting insertion forces and bending force. In another embodiment, the needle is rotated for insertion into the patient and can also be used for tissue removal for biopsy. The two embodiments are usable together or separately.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09114252&OS=09114252&RS=09114252
owner: University of Rochester
number: 09114252
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061204
---
The present application is a National Phase of PCT US2006 046101 filed Dec. 4 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 741 468 filed Dec. 2 2005 and of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 818 329 filed Jul. 5 2006 whose disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties into the present disclosure.

The work leading to the present invention was supported in part by the National Cancer Institute under Grant No. R01 CA091763 and Grant No. R33 CA107860. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to the field of devices used in the radiation treatment instruments. More specifically the present invention relates to the automated seed delivery system of radiation therapy for example the brachytherapy of low dose radiation treatment of prostate cancer. The present invention also relates generally to the field of diagnosis and therapy by tissue removal for example core biopsy and interstitial lumpectomy of breast cancer. Another specific field that the present invention relates to is the use of real time sensors for detecting focal regions of cancer in soft tissues such as the prostate and breast.

Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of death for men after lung cancer. Over 90 of prostate cancer goes undetected until it is untreatable and has spread to the bone and lymphatic system. Each year over 400 000 men in the United States alone undergo prostate surgery and over a billion dollars a year is spent on prostate treatment. More than 230 000 men are diagnosed with prostate cancer and 30 000 men die from it each year. The treatments for prostate cancer include mainly complete surgical removal and radiation therapy. Currently the most popular treatment is complete removal of the prostate by means of a surgical procedure. However like other surgeries such a procedure is invasive and with wounds and the patient needs a long recovery time and especially such surgery often results in side effects such as incontinence and impotence.

Radiation therapy generally comprised of external radiation therapy and internal radiation brachytherapy. External radiation therapy is seldom used currently because of its excessive irradiation to other organs and tissues other than the prostate gland. Radiation brachytherapy is well known and is becoming a broadly acceptable treatment method. There are two types of brachytherapy high dose radioisotope and low dose radioisotope. In the former manner a catheter and an after loader are used and the high dose radioisotope is transferred to the desired location by a wire with the catheter. The radiation stays in the patient s body for a relatively short time. In the latter manner a number of radiation seeds are implanted into the patient s body by a array of hollow needles through which the seeds will pass the seeds will be deposited into a pre planned positions determined by the physician so that an ideal irradiation assignment in the prostate gland can be acquired.

Low dose radioisotope brachytherapy has the advantages of minimally invasive treatment low cost low side effects and keeping the prostate which will increase the patient s self confidence. The most commonly used method for seed delivery into the prostate is by an array of hollow needles with stylet needles which are inserted into the patient s body guided by a template with regular interval chambers. The hollow needles retract from the prostate and the stylet needles stay there then the seeds are deposited in the predetermined locations. The whole process of seed implanting is under monitoring of a ultrasound probe. The current locations of needles and seeds are detected immediately so that the necessary adjustment can be done to obtain an ideal seeds position accuracy. The final accuracy and effectiveness of low dose brachytherapy is greatly related to the ultrasound probe s position and motion accuracy.

Radioactive seed delivery and implantation into some organs of the patient is a common procedure in radiation brachytherapy for instance low dose brachytherapy to prostate cancer. Such seeds commonly are made of Palladium 103 or Iodine 125. A plurality of such tiny seeds are delivered into the body arranged in and surrounding the tumor obtaining required local irradiation and has as low as possible effect to other normal tissue.

Traditionally the seed delivery procedure is commonly achieved by inserting a cannula which is a hollow needle into the body first to make the needle tip reach the required location of the seed implantation. A stylet will push the seeds passing through the cannula until the seed drop from the cannula tip by which one seed will be implanted by this process. More seeds will be implanted while the cannula continues retracting and the stylet stays there. Currently the seed implantation process is achieved by manual techniques assisted by a very simple device which comprises a template with a plurality of guiding holes for needle insertion of the cannula and the stylet. An applicator for grade seed delivery and stylet positioning is broadly used in current art which requires operator s skillful manual operation otherwise a wrong number and wrong position of seeds maybe implanted and seeds may drop. Such process is commonly guided by transrectal ultrasound image or by MRI.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 938 583 describes a combined precise implant needles and method comprising an insertion stylet a sleeve element which has a larger diameter than the stylet and a needle in which radioactive seeds have been preloaded for implanting.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 311 084 shows a computer based method and apparatus for providing prostate brachytherapy using Interventional Magnetic Resonance Imaging. The invention allows a treatment plan to be developed and the implantation procedure to be performed initially in accordance with the developed treatment plan. Modification to the plan is made in real time by the invention software module coupled to the IMR imaging system. In this system all the operation of this invention is still done by manual way.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 796 935 introduces a seed implantation apparatus which can perform multiple seed implantation with its plurality of hollow needles which can hold one more radioactive seeds. This apparatus also includes pistons for each of the hollow needles and a plate located behind the pistons with a rod and a mechanical trigger wherein the actuation causes the plate to move the pistons into said needles. This invention s advantage is that it can deliver plurality of seeds in the same time so that increase the efficiency.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 860 909 describes an applicator for implanting seeds at variably spaced locations in a patient s body. The apparatus includes a needle inserted into the body a base member adapted to be maintained generally stationary with respect to a surface of the body during use and a needle chuck which is slidably mounted with respect to the base member for releasably coupling the needle. The apparatus also includes a seed magazine mounted on the needle chuck for dispensing seeds into the needle bore a stylet extendable through the needle bore for forcing seeds in the bore into the patient s body and a barrel attached to the needle chuck. This invention is currently mostly used in many hospitals for prostate brachytherapy but it is still manual operation the operator has to do his tedious job carefully.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 869 390 describes an automated implantation system for radioisotope seeds this invention is the latest development achievement in this field in which a very complicated seed cartridge and a gantry type for supporting the needling mechanism are used. There are still many disadvantages of this system a long time is needed for a practical and commercial product is obtained.

Concerning the ultrasound probe driving device U.S. Pat. No. 5 931 786 describes a manual driving device to ultrasound probe or the same gear racks are used to obtain the probe s forward and backward translational motion which is driven by a hand knob. The template is located in the end of the support close to the patient body. Scale is also made in the side of guide rods for easy observation of the travel distance.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 871 448 introduces a stepper apparatus for use in the imaging treatment of internal organs using an ultrasound probe. This apparatus includes a body portion a support element for holding the ultrasound probe a slide portion for moving the support element for holding the template. The ultrasound probe can be moved longitudinally. Rack and gear arrangement are used and dual motion of indexed and continuous motions can be achieved.

The above two inventions are commonly used apparatus for support and driving ultrasound probe now. But they have only translation motion not suitable for sagittal scanning. There is a need to develop a multi functional easy operating more accurate ultrasound probe driver which is integrated with the needling mechanism an initial positioning passive platform and a supporting cart.

Seed implantation is tedious and costs much operating room time with low efficiency and low accuracy in current art. There is no a practical system obtained. It is necessary to develop an automated and ultrasound guided seed delivery system with more practical advantages including high efficiency and high accuracy.

Accurate intervention of surgical needles is very important in various medical diagnostic and therapeutic procedures like tissue biopsy brachytherapy anaesthesia vaccinations blood fluid sampling abscess drainage catheter insertion cryogenic ablation electrolytic ablation neurosurgery deep brain biopsy etc. Precise placement of needles in soft tissue is challenging because of several reasons such as tissue heterogeneity and elastic stiffness tissue deformation and movement unfavorable anatomic structures needle bending inadequate sensing and poor maneuverability. Some of the factors such as needle bending tissue deformation and movement are directly related to the force experienced by the needle during insertion. A portion of these forces and deformations depend on the needle geometry and insertion techniques. Therefore understanding of the complex mechanism of needle interaction with soft tissue is an active research area.

Currently available breast or other biopsy devices rely on manual insertion of large gauge needles into the patient s tissue. Typically a biopsy needle with a stylet is inserted into the abnormal tissue under the guidance of an imaging modality such as ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging MRI . The stylet is then removed. A syringe is attached to the needle suction is applied through the syringe and then the needle is manually thrust into and out of the tissue to capture and remove cellular material. However rather than cutting the tissue to enable collection in the needle bore the thin needle tends to displace the tissue especially rigid malignant tissue. Therefore only a small number of cells may be obtained. Even after repeated attempts a sufficient amount of tissue might not be obtained. Displacement of tissue also alters the frame of reference defined by the imaging modality.

To improve yield larger bore needles have been used. However the risk of damage to the tissues that the needle has to traverse to reach the area of pathology as well as the risks of bleeding infection and patient discomfort rise with increasing needle thickness. Healing time may therefore be increased. Large needle core biopsy needles may also cause significant damage to certain organs such as the lungs and the spleen. As with fine needles displacement of movable tissues such as breast tissue is also a problem.

Significant tissue organ deformation and movement both translational and rotational are observed during puncturing capsule of inner organs like prostate liver etc. or skin of external organs like breast etc. These undesired deformation and movement can cause deflection of the needle and the target resulting in clinical complications such as vital tissue damage misdiagnosis under over dosing with radiation tumor seeding etc. Although the biological tissue relaxes and regains the position partially there are some organ rotation and deformation which do not recover during surgery and consequently the whole surgical plan becomes erroneous. Therefore there remains a need for a biopsy need that substantially reduces needle puncturing force and tissue deformation while improving targeting accuracy.

As diagnostic markers and tools become increasingly sophisticated smaller and smaller cancers are detected in their earliest stages confined to such organs as the breast. The traditional method for removing such cancers is open surgery. Surgery causes trauma to the patient is often performed without real time image guidance and may result in unnecessary removal of healthy tissue and or geographic miss of cancer. A certain number of less invasive ablation techniques exist including heating by radio frequency RF ultrasound and laser. A common drawback across all these ablation techniques is that tissue cannot be removed from the body in its natural biological state for subsequent histological examination. Particularly pathological status of the margin around the ablation is difficult to determine due to burning making subsequent oncological management of the patient very uncertain. There remains a need to excise tissue without such difficulties.

One embodiment of the invention is directed to an automated system for radioisotope seeds delivery to internal organs of the patient s body for radiation brachytherapy. This system comprises a needling mechanism a 2DOF robot an ultrasound probe driver a 5DOF passive platform and an easy lock cart.

The needling mechanism which is supported by the 2DOF robot achieves the final delivery to the patient s body. The needling mechanism includes a cannula moving stage driving the cannula which is a hollow needle for puncturing the tissue a stylet moving stage driving the stylet which pushes the radioisotope seeds passing through the cartridge three DC motors among which two drive ball screws and one drives the cannula to obtain its rotation while inserting by gear transmission two z direction force sensors installed in the back ends of the cannula and the stylet one x y direction force sensor detecting the bending force of the cannula.

Encoders are included with the two translation drive motors. Two z direction force sensors are installed in the back end of the stylet and cannula for detecting the inserting force along axial direction of the stylet and cannula and one x y force sensor is installed in the front support end for detecting the cannula s side force for bending tendency. The sensors extend the device s application for instance a closed loop automatic control system or emergency case hint such as needle hitting the bone.

A specially designed seed cartridge holder is also included which is compatible with commercial seed cartridge with easy loading and unloading function by the positioning plunger and tightening knob. Easy loading and unloading structure for needles including stylet and cannula and for sterilizers in the component interference places are also included in this device. The device has compact design for the motion transmission moving stages in which ball screws are also used as bushing shaft for supporting.

The ultrasound probe driver achieves ultrasound probe s gripping and motions of translation and rotation by which translational scanning and sagittal scanning are obtained. The ultrasound images provide 3D construction information of the patient s organ and other operation for example irradiation planning needle inserting of the procedure will be based on this information. The ultrasound probe driver includes two motors two clutches two encoders one ball screw one ball spline gear transmissions a half ring bearing a gripper knobs etc. with motorized and manual ways. Two manual stabilization needle guides with two rotation adjustment functions are installed in the front location close to the patient by which two stabilization needles can be guided and fixed for the stabilizing the organ for other needle s accurate inserting and the seeds implantation.

In the area of probe clamp a half ring is designed supporting and implementing rotation of the probe the motion transmission to the half bearing is by two spur gears from the ball spline. The half ring design is advantageous in the operation of installing the probe into the clamp because its open structure. A reverse directional thread drive screw is used in the probe clamp for realizing the probe s clipping and releasing. This design not only can ensure the probe s center line position accuracy but also has the function of self lock which is the most important feature for a clamp .

Two hand knobs are installed in both ends of the tightening screw which ensure the ease to access the knobs.

An optional support frame is arranged in the front end of the mechanism in the side which is close to the patient. The prostate brachytherapy needle guidance template is supported by this frame for this application and two guidance structures which are arrangement just below the template in both lateral sides are included also in the frame. Theses two guidance structure are used for guiding the stabilization needles to the prostate before prostate brachytherapy.

Two guide rods are used to guide and support the clamp and the moving stage which is a great help to make the mechanism light and compact.

This ultrasound probe driving device can be used as either an automatic or manual diagnostic scanning or a biopsy or brachytherapy guiding to prostate or other possible organs.

A 2DOF two degrees of freedom robot achieves the function of positioning motions along up down and left right directions of the needling mechanism. Guide rails which are driven by ball screws connected to DC motors are used and a hanging up pattern of structure for the supporting has more access space to the ultrasound probe and its gripper. An angulations and manual take over structure is used in the connection location between the 2DOF robot and the needling mechanism which provides 5 angulations to the needling mechanism to make possible oblique insertion of needles for avoiding pubic arch and manual way replacement under emergency case of the system failure.

The 2DOF robot and the ultrasound probe driver are mounted on one support component which is supported by the 5DOF five degrees of freedom passive platform. The 5DOF passive platform can achieve the upper part s up down left right forward backward pitch and yaw motions which act as the initial positioning and posturing of the ultrasound probe and the needling mechanism. The five joints utilize worm gear transmission and lead screw transmission with self lock function.

Below the other four parts are the cart supporting the whole system s weight and moving it with easy locking pedal controlled by link mechanism acting on four corners by which a stable support are obtained.

1 To provide a radioactive seed delivery device with its cannula and stylet driven by two DC motors ball screws and two moving stages respectively.

2 To provide an accurate seed delivery function by accurate needle insertion targeting with cannula rotation driven by a separate DC motor with spur gearing.

3 To provide a compact and motorized delivery device in which encoders for detection motor motion status two z direction and one x y force sensors for detecting needle insertion force and bending force are installed in stylet and cannula. These features are good advantages while constructing an automatic closed loop control system and emergency case treatment.

4 To provide a supporting and driving device to the ultrasound probe for transrectal prostate scanning or prostate brachytherapy. This device can drive the ultrasound probe translational motion and rotational motion in both motorized and manual modes.

5 To provide an open easy operation probe clamp with self lock function by half ring bearing and reverse directional thread tightening screw.

6 To provide a compact and easy operational method for stabilization needle guidance of prostate brachytherapy. The guidance structure can provide two degree of freedom adjustment motions to the stabilization needles.

The automated system for radioisotope seeds delivery to internal organs of the patient s body for radiation brachytherapy is disclosed. The whole system comprises a needling mechanism a 2DOF robot an ultrasound probe driver a 5DOF passive platform and an easy lock cart.

The needling mechanism implants radioisotope seeds by its cannula and stylet driven by two moving stages pushed by DC motors with ball screw transmission. Force sensors are included for detecting insertion forces and bending force. These force sensors provide ability for automated closed loop control.

The needling mechanism can move along left right and up down directions driven by the 2DOF robot which includes two linear motions driven by motors and transmitted by guide rails and ball screws.

There is an angulations and manual take over structure in the location connecting the needling mechanism and 2DOF robot which provides 5 angulations to the needling mechanism to make possible oblique insertion of needles for avoiding the interference with pubic arch and manual way replacement under emergency case of the system failure.

The ultrasound probe driver has motorized and manual options for driving and has translational scanning and sagittal scanning patterns. A half ring bearing and open style gripper allow the easy access possible of ultrasound probe while mounting it to the machine. Two stabilization needle guide structures are included also in the probe driver to assist and fix the stabilization needles to the organ before implantation.

The 2DOF robot and the ultrasound probe driver are mounted on a support component which is supported by the 5DOF passive platform with up down left right forward backward pitch and yaw motions for the initial positioning and posturing of the ultrasound probe and the needling mechanism.

Another embodiment of the invention usable with the first relates to a biopsy or brachytherapy needle that substantially reduces needle puncturing force and tissue deformation while improving targeting accuracy. The needle of the present invention is rotatable around its longitudinal axis by command of the person performing the needle user . The needle is preferably housed in a housing that contains a motor. The motor drives the rotation of the needle preferably through a gearing system that can increase or decrease the rotational speed of the needle at the choosing of the user. The motor can be activated by the user by activating a switch located on the housing. Preferably the switch is conveniently located on the housing such that the user can activate the switch with minimal force and minimal distraction while inserting the needle into a patient. Typically the switch is a button operable by the user by depressing the button with his her thumb. The biopsy of the present invention is operable with currently available biopsy needles including but are not limited to diamond tip and bevel tip brachytherapy needles and Mammotome and Vacora breast biopsy needles. Although the present invention discloses biopsy or brachytherapy needles the principle of the present invention can be used for other needles where reduction of needle puncturing force and tissue deformation and or improvement in targeting accuracy are desired. The second preferred embodiment addresses the need for a method and system to excise tissue through a percutaneous needle core in a systematic peeling fashion resulting in retrieval of shells of tissue surrounding a mass with preservation of histological characteristics.

Insertion of large core surgical needles into soft tissue is associated with large deformation of the tissue and with high insertion force and target deflection. Several breast biopsy devices rely on manual insertion of large gauge needles into the tissue. The second preferred embodiment permits easy entry by needle rotation and oscillation where the operator controls the speed of rotation by the press of a button without the need for a second hand.

During biopsy the physician sometimes has to rotate the needle gun manually to achieve the effect of drilling through dense or otherwise hard tissue before reaching the target area. The motorized rotation of the second preferred embodiment achieves the same or better effect through a simple one finger operation decreases the time for biopsy increases the accuracy of the biopsy and decreases the chance of complications.

To advance a large gauge needle 10 Ga to 8 Ga into deep tissue such as the breast manually considerable force and effort are required on the part of the operating physician. During clinical practice the inventors have learned that rotation or rotational oscillation of the needle gun device by the hand eases entry and advance of the needle into tissue. That is described in T. K. Podder et al Assessment of prostate brachytherapy and breast biopsy needle insertions and methods to improve accuracy presented and published at the ICBME Singapore 7 10 Dec. 2005 whose disclosure is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present disclosure. However placement of large gauge needles deep into tissue is a clinically challenging skill to add the need for manual rotation or oscillation while advancing the needle is physically too demanding and may introduce imprecision into the procedure.

The second preferred embodiment provides a motorized needle rotation mechanism into the biopsy gun assembly which is controlled by a button situated within reach of the physician s thumb while holding the biopsy gun. The button is not only a switch to actuate the motorized rotation and or oscillation mechanism but also a graduated control for the speed of rotation as well as a toggle between full rotation and CW CCW oscillation of the needle about its axis.

Either the cannula or the stylet can be rotated independently or the cannula and stylet can be rotated together. The velocity can be modulated during needle insertion into tissue.

The motorized needle rotation of the second embodiment permits controlled systematic positioning of the cutting area of the needle in both orientation and depth. Continuous activation of the said motorized mechanisms will result in a peeling motion the extent and shape of which can be controlled by the operating clinician.

Preferred embodiments of the invention will be set forth in detail with reference to the drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout.

There are a total of seven DC motors in the system to obtain cannula insertion with rotation stylet movement for pushing the seeds into the cannula and implanting in the body the needling mechanism s left right and up down motions for positioning along x and y axis ultrasound probe s translation and rotation for translational scan and sagittal scan.

There are a total of three force sensors included for force detection of cannula and stylet and cannula bending force detection while inserting.

The key parts of the device are the cannula which is a hollow needle allowing radioactive seeds passing through into the required locations of the patient s body a stylet taking the task of pushing the seeds and two moving stages driving cannula and stylet by the ball screw transmission driven by two motors .

To improve the friction status of cannula with tissue while inserting the cannula is driven to rotate in some speed this rotation is transmitted by three small spur gears . The rotation motion greatly reduces the friction force of insertion and increases the targeting accuracy of cannula tip and also the seed implantation location. A commercial seed cartridge is arranged in the top position of the device and held by the cartridge holder which is positioned by a spring plunger and can be easily tightened by a knob .

The cannula stylet and all the sterilizers can be easily loading and unloading by the special design structures.

There are a total of three force sensors included in this device two z direction force sensors installed in the back end of stylet and cannula for detecting insertion force one x y force sensor installed in the front supporting point detecting cannula transverse forces and torques. Optical encoders are also included which are installed in the back end of the motors . These sensors ensure the emergency case detection and the application of a closed loop automatic control system.

In the connection structure among the motors couplings bearings and ball screws is shown in the pattern of 2D section view of the needling mechanism. Optical encoders are attached to the back side of the motors for rotation angle detection. Motors and ball screw shafts are directly connected by couplings . The ball screw shafts are fixed purely by the shaft thrust nuts and the two bearing sets . All the components in this portion are supported by the bracket part which is connected to the side board with an angle connection board .

Stylet moving stage which is shown in comprises a support box holding ball screw nut and bushing stylet holder shown in together with stylet sterilizer and a z direction force sensor and its mounting block and a plunger .

While the ball screw shaft in the left side is driven to rotate the box will be driven to move along axial direction the whole stylet moving stage moves with the box . Although the right side ball screw shaft does not drive the box it supports the box by the bushing .

The stylet sterilizer is necessary for sterilization need in surgery operation this part will be installed together with the stylet needle just before the seed delivery procedure. The stylet sterilizer has counterbore holes along its center line which just hold the stylet head inside and allow it rotate and move backward to be against the force sensor top surface for the axial force detection of the stylet . There is a long groove in the outside surface of the sterilizer to allow the spring plunger to tighten it and hold it in position by which the stylet can also be taken out while big enough force is applied. This structure ensures the stylet to be easily loaded and unloaded. A force sensor holding block which can be installed from back side by screws is used to fix the sensor and arrange the sensor s wire along its opening side wards. The stylet center line is just located in the middle plane between the two ball screws shafts .

The moving cannula stage and other attached structures are shown in 3D view and section view and also by and .

The main support part of the cannula moving stage is the support box in which a ball screw nut and a bushing are held by two holes allowing the two ball screw shafts passing through. In the right ball screw shaft which drives the nut in stylet moving stage supports the box and forms a slide bearing together with the bushing .

The seed cartridge holder is mounted in the bottom surface in the middle position where there is a hole to allow the seed cartridge to pass through into its holding position in the holder . Because the cartridge holder will be passed through by the radioactive seeds cannula and stylet which will be pushed and inserted into the patient s body the sterilization is needed before use. So easy loading and unloading function is necessary for the cartridge holder . An outstretched round column portion in the cartridge fits with the hole in the bottom surface by which the cartridge holder is restrained purely together with a positioning plunger . The cartridge holder is tightened by the tightening knob which is located in side place of the support box and is operated by operator s hand manually. The commercial cartridge is arranged in the top of the support box and is installed into the holder with its body passing through the box . Two spring plungers position and tighten the cartridge respectively keeping it in its position while seed implanting.

The cannula rotation is driven by a small DC motor through spur gear transmission which is supported by a gearing bracket mounted to the support box . A total of three small spur gears including an idle gear are included for a little far distance transmission between the motor shaft and the cannula shaft .

The cannula sterilizer is used also as the cannula holder holding the cannula s back head with two spring plungers which are arranged by 180 degree. Two flat planes with a small hole each are cut in the cannula head in which the front balls of the plungers fit with the two holes to ensure the good positioning and tightening of the cannula inside the sterilizer .

The cannula sterilizer is used also as the axial force transducer from the cannula to the force sensor link . Its movement is restrained by the plunger along its axial direction in which it can only push the sensor link backward the reverse side movement is blocked. The plunger also mounts the sterilizer to the spur gear shaft together with the gear so that the cannula can be driven to rotate while needed. The sterilizer pushes the sensor link by its shoulder and is connected to the sensor base by screw which is also the rotation joint of the link. The force will be acted on the force sensor s acting point by another screw which is threaded together with the link . The force sensor is arranged in the back side of sensor base and is fixed by the sensor block .

The transmission route of ultrasound probe s translation motion is from the translation motor a gear box is included for speed reduction and torque increasing the electric clutch encoder ball screw ball screw nut the moving stage the clamp and finally to the ultrasound probe . The ball screw is used to obtain linear motion. The manual transmission route is from the left drive knob to bevel gearing to the united gears then to the ball screw shaft others are same with motorized route.

The transmission route of rotation motion is from the rotation motor including a gear box the electric clutch encoder ball spline transmission spur gear idle gear half ring gear finally to the probe . The ball spline is used to transmit rotation motion to another place accurately. The manual transmission route is from the right drive knob to bevel gearing to the united gears then to the ball spline shaft others are same with motorized route.

The switching between motorized and manual modes is controlled by the electric switches which are installed inside the drive knobs mechanism shown by . When the operator pushes down the drive knobs into their engaging positions and turn the hollow shafts which have four lateral detents in the top end to ensure one detent is hitched by the hooks the bevel gears are engaged together and the turning motion can be transmitted from the drive knob to the bevel gear through the inner shaft inside the hollow shaft . After that the hollow shaft will stay there without moving in the whole manual operation mode. At the same time the electric switches are connected as the control signal to make the electric clutches released. This function guarantee the conflict won t happen between motorized and manual working modes. Two compression springs are used in the drive knob mechanism one is used to make sure the knob and the bevel gear can stay at its release position when the working mode is motorized the whole set will be pushed out from the main square box . Another spring is used to guarantee the two poles of the electric switch are touched together all the time even when the knob is turning.

United gears which include one small bevel gear and one big spur gear are supported by the supporting rod it can rotate freely around the supporting rod by which the motion transmitted to the spur gear fixed on the ball screw shaft .

Because the electric clutches are made in English dimension system the two connection holes in two sides are in 5 16 the motor output shafts are in metric system 6 mm and in diameter an adaptor component is necessary.

The two encoders are supported and connected directly to the ball screw shaft and ball spline shaft . Set screws are used to fix the encoders rotors with the shafts . An encoder bracket is specifically designed to fix the outside part of the encoders to ensure no turn occur when the ball screw shaft and ball spline shaft turn.

On the moving stage is the half ring and clamp assembly show by which is mounted by four screws together. and are the back view and side view of the half ring bearing and clamp assembly without the ultrasound probe is its explode view. Bearing base is the supporting part of half ring bearing and clamp assembly in which both of static part of half ring bearing are mounted and fixed in two sides. In each static part of half ring bearing fourteen cam followers are arranged to two circular half ring with some accurate distance in which the rotation part of half ring bearing rotate around. The cam followers support and restraint the rotation part to obtain its rotation motion in some degree. The half gear which is driven by the idle gear is connected and fixed to rotation part of half ring bearing . The idle gear is driven by the transmission spur gear connected together with ball spline nut. The clamp frame is mounted between and with two side s rotation part of half ring bearing . The up down and left right positions of the clamp frame are calculated carefully to ensure that the probe s center line just coincident with the rotation center of the half ring bearing.

Positioning piece is used specifically for the axial positioning of the probe by touching of the side surface of positioning piece with the rear end surface of the ultrasound probe .

Inside the clamp frame are reverse directional thread shaft and two guide shafts . Two clamp jaws are restrained by the two guide shafts and move along their axial direction. There are reverse directional threads in left and right portions of the drive shaft which is driven by the two tightening knobs . This structure feature of the drive shaft guarantee that the two clamp jaws can move closely tightening or fatherly releasing with only one turn to the tightening knobs . Two tightening knobs are installed in both ends of the drive shaft for the easy access and convenient operation. Another advantage of this design is that the clamping has the feature of self locking which guarantee the probe stabile enough when it is being held.

Static dead block and rotational dead block are used to restrain the rotation part of half ring bearing inside the static part of half ring bearing and also to obtain the home position of rotation motion. Two rotational dead blocks are arranged at both ends of the rotation part of half ring bearing the static dead block is arranged at the side wall of clamp frame . For the embodiment shown in the rotation angles in both directions are 90.5 degree.

The idle gear mounted on clamp frame by a bigger cam follower which can move along a circular groove to adjust engaging status of the gearing.

Another aspect of the invention involves stabilization of the seeds in the prostate or other organ . The system disclosed above can be equipped with various components for stabilization. One possibility is to coagulate the tissue between seeds e.g. by diathermy or lasers. Coagulation by diathermy and by lasers is known in the art however its use in the context of the present invention is deemed to be novel. Another possibility is to dispense biological glue between the seeds while they are being deposited. Examples of biological glues which can be used are fibrin and BioGlue produced by Cryolife Inc. in Georgia.

A second preferred embodiment will be disclosed with reference to . As noted above the first and second preferred embodiments can be used together. They may also be used separately.

The needle could be implemented as a coring needle with a cutting mechanism for systematic excision of cancerous tissue via motorized translation and rotation of such a needle which can be done under the guidance of an imaging system such as ultrasound or MRI. Thus the natural state of the cell histology can be preserved especially around the margin of the excision.

Although two preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described it will be recognized that numerous changes and variations can be made. For example in either the first or the second preferred embodiment or a device implementing both of the preferred embodiments brachytherapy seeds can be replaced with any therapeutic or diagnostic capsules such as chemotherapy drugs virus antibodies heating rods and other similar current or future therapeutic or diagnostic capsules. One particular example of such a therapeutic or diagnostic capsule is a sensor which is introduced interstitially through a needle to detect tumor nodules. Moreover the number of degrees of freedom in both the robot and the passive platform is variable as is whether the cart is lockable. Therefore the scope of the present invention is intended to be defined only by the appended claims.

