---

title: Software-based method for gaining privacy by affecting the screen of a computing device
abstract: A method and apparatus for allowing the user of an electronic device to enhance privacy over a display with the use of software, are disclosed. A security window including a translucent graphical effects region may be displayed on the electronic device such that it overlays content the user may choose to protect. The security window allows the protected content to remain discernable for the user of the device yet substantially indiscernible to a person at a further distance and/or greater viewing angle from the screen of the device. One or more security windows, each of which may be of any size, shape, texture, translucency level and any other graphical or behavioral properties may be displayed on the display associated with the electronic device. The user may control the size, shape, texture, translucency level and any other graphical or behavioral properties of the security window and graphical effects region. The user may invoke or terminate a security window with the single click of a button. Security windows may automatically attach to applications in focus, or be attached in response to a user command, and allow uninterrupted usability of those applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07779475&OS=07779475&RS=07779475
owner: PetNote LLC
number: 07779475
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060731
---
The present invention relates to computer graphics applications. More particularly the present invention relates to the application of graphics software to reduce the legibility of a computer screen to a potential viewer.

The evolution of computer screens has been progressively achieving higher resolution brightness sharpness response time and contrast ratio. As screens are becoming larger brighter and sharper they are generally easier to read from a greater distance and wider angles. For example laptops with passive matrix screens popular in the late 1990s have been replaced with active matrix or TFT screens in which each pixel is illuminated. The direct result is that a computer s TFT screen appears clearer and easier to read from a greater distance and wider viewing angle. New technologies continue to improve computer screens by increasing brightness and reducing glare making screens easier to read in daylight and from greater distances and wider angles.

While the trend of bigger better brighter and sharper screens offers a great benefit to the user it also presents a drawback the content of the screen may be more visible to prying eyes in the vicinity of the user. The proliferation of portable computers and their usage at public places coupled with their larger and better than ever screens compromise privacy. For example more and more corporate users use their portable computers for work of potentially sensitive nature ordinarily conducted behind closed doors in an office at public places such as coffee shops and airplanes where their screens could be read by dozens of people at any given time.

In recognition of the increased need for privacy demanded by computer users hardware manufacturers have introduced hardware based monitor security devices. Examples of hardware based monitor security devices include computer privacy filters or screens collectively privacy filters unless otherwise noted introduced by companies such as 3M feature a physical device that is adhered to or placed over a computer screen. Once such privacy filter is applied i.e. placed over or adhered to to a computer screen its optics are designed to distort the view of the computer screen when viewed from a wide angle or greater distance. The usage of a privacy filter may keep information displayed away from prying eyes as a person to either side of the user may find their view of the computer screen distorted and intangible. Other related hardware based monitor security devices are computer LCD screens that are manufactured in such way that they can be read or viewed in a tangible way only by a user sitting directly in front of them.

Hardware based monitor security devices have multiple drawbacks. Among these drawbacks is the bulk and inconvenience especially for mobile computing. Some filters are not easily removed from a monitor to allow viewing without the distorting effect of the screen which users may want to do when security is less of a concern as when a computer user may be using the computer to show something to others . Additionally hardware monitor security devices in the form of privacy screens are ineffective in giving the audience of a presentation on a large display such as an LCD projector or large flat screen TV privacy from prying audience who may be standing a substantial distance away. e.g. a LCD projected presentation at a company board room with glass walls where people standing outside the room may be able to see sensitive projected information . There are other limitations and drawbacks of hardware monitor security devices to those described above.

A software implemented method for allowing a user to enhance privacy over any portion of their computer s display is disclosed. The user may choose to display one or more translucent region s over any portion of their screen in such a manner as to allow the user to discern the content covered by the region while making the task of discerning the content covered by the region more difficult to a person at a greater distance and wider angle to the screen than the user. The translucent region may be turned on and off randomly by the user via a pointing device keyboard command software hot key designated key on the keyboard or any other method. The user may control the translucent region s shape size position opaqueness and other behavioral characteristics. Applications covered by the translucent region are unaffected by it in terms of behavior. The translucent region may be optimized in such a manner as to have a minimal impact on the user sitting in front of the screen so that they can read content covered by the translucent region with minimal strain while offering the maximum obstruction to viewers further and at wider angles to the screen than the user. Different patterns may be applied to the translucent region either automatically or at the user s choosing so as to optimize its effectiveness under various conditions. The user may manually choose the pattern to be applied to the translucent region from a library of patterns or allow the software to choose apply and adjust a pattern automatically. The user may move and reposition the translucent region over an application manually or instruct the software to track an application and reposition the translucent region automatically.

Secuirty window may include a shaded translucent region as the graphical effect. The shading of filter window may be in darker color so as to allow a user in proximity to the display device to read the content of a document displayed in covered application through region . Alternatively the shading may be in a lighter color or may be in a different color which is not noticeably darker or lighter than the area of the desktop covered by or adjacent to the security region. To a person at a greater distance from the display device discerning the content of document when viewed from under shaded region may be comparatively more difficult as the dark shading of region may tend to appear more like a solid dark cover. In the current embodiment region may contain a watermark which may be in some form of a tangible text or pattern in a different color brightness or contrast than shading pattern and substantially translucent.

Activation of the security window may be accomplished by launching the security window as a program as done on PCs and other electronic devices by a button or command associated with an application or operating system through the use of a dedicated button as may be included on a smart phone or on a laptop or through the use of a hotkey. Another possible embodiment is shown in which is a generalized flow diagram illustrating the use of a software hot key to open and close secure regions or security windows. A software hot key is a shortcut which allows the user to instruct a computing device to perform a function such as launch an application with a single key stroke at any time regardless of any other applications or processes which may be running. An application may register a hot key with an operating system running on a device instructing the operating system on what key or keys would define the hot key shortcut and what application to invoke once that key or keys is pressed. Process registers hot keys with the operation system allowing the hot keys to open and close security windows and un registers the hot keys. At step hot keys are defined and registered with the operating system running on a device preferably one specific key to designate the launching of a new security window and one for closing a security window. At step the application which registered the hot keys is hidden such that it may become a process running away from the user s view. At any point in time a user may press the specific key on the keyboard designated as a hot key in step . In step the operating system having received they user s pressing of a key designated as a hot key notifies the application controlling security windows. At step a determination is made whether the hot key pressed is a hot key designated for launching a new security window or closing an existing security window. If at step a determination is made that the hot key pressed was intended to create a new security window at step a new security window is created. To apply the new security window to a window that is currently in focus or on top at steps the newly created security window may be positioned on top of the current window in focus. In one preferred embodiment pressing the hot key initiates associating the security window with a specific window in order to cover that window thus the newly created security window should match the location and dimensions of the window in focus. At step a determination is made whether there is a window in focus. At step the location and size of the window in focus are obtained. At step the security window created at step is resized to the location and dimensions determined in step . If at step the determination is made there is no window in focus at step the security window created at step is set to a default location and size. If at step the hot key invoked as denoting closing is identified at step a determination is made whether there is a window currently in focus. If the determination at step is affirmative at step the size and location of the window in focus may be obtained. At step a determination may be made whether any one of the existing security windows is associated with the window in focus. The determination may be made by accessing a stored record of security windows associated with other windows or it may be determined that upon recursion of all security windows the security window having the closest size and position to the window in focus is said to be associated with the window in focus. Thus an assumption may be made that that is the security window the user wishes to close and the handle to that security window may be obtained in step . Step then terminates that security window. If step determines there is no window in focus or if at step it is determined there is no security window associated with the window in focus at step a handle to the first security window is obtained and at step this window is terminated. In other embodiments of the present invention at step a handle to the first last or any arbitrary security window may be obtained or at step the security window closest to the mouse cursor may be determined. For a complete shutdown of the application exhibiting the behavior of this invention at step a message from the operating system indicating the user has taken action to close this application may be received. at step the hot keys registered in step may be un registered. At step a common procedure to terminate the application s running on the device may be executed.

