---

title: Information distribution and processing system
abstract: An information distribution and processing system contains a sender and a plurality of processing units. The sender delivers a set of digital data, without receiving a request signal, to the plurality of processor units. The set of digital data contains a first set of displayable data, a second set of displayable data, at least one non-displayable symbol, and at least one linking reference associated with the second set of displayable data. If desired, a user can select the second set of displayable data. The associated linking reference is sent to a database. The database contains additional information. The associated linking reference is used by the data to search for the additional information, and returns the requested information to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07840176&OS=07840176&RS=07840176
owner: Email Link Corporation
number: 07840176
owner_city: Newport Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061222
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 322 624 filed Dec. 19 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 181 758 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 079 257 filed Feb. 19 2002 now abandoned which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 699 022 filed Oct. 27 2000 now abandoned which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 480 226 filed Jan. 10 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 347 215 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 08 939 368 filed Sep. 29 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 021 307 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 08 644 838 filed May 10 1996 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 08 279 424 filed Jul. 25 1994 now abandoned all of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates generally to information distribution and more particularly to distributing information using a broadcast channel and a bi directional communication channel.

Recent advancements in modem and computer technology allow large amounts of digital data to be transmitted electronically. A number of information providers such as newspaper and magazine publishers and on line information distributors have formed partnerships to deliver newspaper and other information on line. In this system a subscriber uses a computer and a modem to connect through a regular phone line to the computer of an on line information provider. The subscriber can retrieve information including newspaper articles stored in the computer of the information provider.

On line delivery of newspaper has many advantages. For example the information can be updated throughout the day while the printed version is printed only once or twice a day. Further it is possible to do text based searches on the information. However it is found that on line delivery of newspaper and other information is slow. For example a subscriber has to wait many seconds for a newspaper article to be delivered. The quality of the electronic newspaper is low. For example in order to reduce storage and communication requirements graphic images appearing in the printed version are not universally supplied in the on line version of newspaper. One of the reasons for such poor performance is the limited bandwidth of communication channels used by on line information distributors. Another reason is that information is centrally processed by the computer at the site of the information distributor with the result that each subscriber only gets a small slice of the time of the computer.

The present invention uses two channels to deliver digital information a broadcast channel and a bi directional channel. The broadcast channel is used to deliver the bulb of the digital information to subscribers. The amount of information delivered is preferably sufficient to satisfy the needs of a large number of subscribers so that they do not have to obtain additional information using the bi directional channel. The broadcasted information is stored on fast storage media located at subscriber sites. As a result search and retrieval of the broadcasted information is quick. Further the broadcasted information is processed locally using a dedicated on site processor instead of relying on the computers of the information distributors. As a result the load on the computers of the information distributors is reduced. If the subscribers desire to receive additional information relating to the broadcasted information the bi directional communication channel is used to transmit the request and the requested information.

The distribution costs of broadcast channels are typically much lower than that of a bi directional communication channel. Consequently the major portion of information is delivered using low cost distribution channels. For a large number of subscribers the broadcasted information will provide all the information they normally need. Thus expensive bi directional communication channels are used only occasionally.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be fully understood by referring to the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The structure of these subscriber units are substantially identical consequently only one of these units such as unit is described in detail. Unit contains an antenna for receiving broadcast signals from satellite transponder a signal data processor for performing signal and data processing functions a monitor for displaying the electronic newspaper and an input device such as a keyboard and or a mouse .

Signal data processor contains a transponder interface for processing transponder signal received from antenna . Transponder interface typically contains a low noise receiver for receiving high frequency e.g. C or Ku band transponder signal and a universal data interface for converting the transponder signal to digital data. The retrieved data is stored in nonvolatile storage such as a hard disk or solid state flash memory. Preferably satellite transponder broadcasts the newspaper data at predetermined times. Thus a real time clock is preferably used to turn on interface at the predetermined times. Processor contains a microcomputer which coordinates the operation of clock nonvolatile storage and interface . Processor also contains a communication interface for sending and receiving digital data from central database through telephone connection .

The time for broadcast is preferably chosen when communication load of transponder is at a low level e.g. around mid night . As a result the cost of information delivery is low. Alternatively the time of broadcasting is chosen by transponder because it knows when communication load is light. In this case transponder first sends a signal to signal data processor for alerting processor to receive and process the newspaper information.

A user can use the input device and monitor to read the content of the electronic newspaper stored in nonvolatile storage . In this embodiment the complete content of the newspaper is stored in nonvolatile storage . The term complete content means that the user is able to read the newspaper without relying on information stored in central database although other embodiments may deliver less than the complete content . In this aspect system functions in a similar way as the distribution of a conventional printed newspaper. However the digital data of the electronic newspaper delivered by satellite transponder preferably contains linkage reference which allows fast retrieval of additional information from central database .

If the newspaper information received from satellite transponder is sufficient to satisfy the needs of a user signal data processor will not activate telephone connection . However if the user wishes to receive additional information relating to an item mentioned in the electronic newspaper e.g. by selecting at the item using the input device process will retrieve the information stored in central database using the embedded linkage reference.

In system of the present invention the complete content of the electronic newspaper including graphics and other multimedia contents if delivered is stored in nonvolatile storage which has fast access time. Further a dedicated processor i.e. microcomputer is used to process newspaper information. On the other hand prior art on line newspaper distribution systems rely on modem to deliver the content of the newspaper stored in a central site. Further the processor in the central site has to serve many users in delivering the newspaper. As a result system has superior performance compared to the prior art on line newspaper delivery systems.

If it is desirable to limit circulation of the newspaper to a certain class of subscribers only e.g. paid subscribers the data transmitted by transponder could be encrypted. As a result only subscribers who have a decryption key are able to read the newspaper. In this case microcomputer also performs decryption functions.

When an underlined term in is selected by a user microcomputer extracts the linkage reference and transmits it to central database . The linkage reference allows central database to retrieve the necessary information quickly without doing extensive searches. As a result the response time of system is fast. The retrieved information can itself contain linkage references and can be searched.

If the speed of searching and retrieving data by central database is fast it may not be necessary to include linkage reference in the information broadcasted by transponder . In this case the user selects e.g. using the mouse words and terms he she is interested in. Signal data processor transmits the selected items to central database which searches for matches in its database. Matched information is sent to subscriber unit for processing.

The bi directional channel also allows updating of the broadcasted information. There is typically a time difference between the broadcast and display of information. New information gathered during this time difference can be stored in central database and later transmitted to signal data processor .

In this embodiment of the present invention satellite transponder is used as the vehicle to electronically broadcast newspaper. However other broadcast distribution methods can be used. In the present invention broadcast is defined as one to many distribution of information. The broadcast distribution channels do not have to be electrical. For example the present invention allows the distribution of CDROMs encoded with digital information to the subscriber sites. In the case of electrical broadcast communication channels both wired and wireless can be used. Preferably unidirectional channels are used for broadcast because of their low cost however the present invention does not preclude the use of bi directional communication channels such as telephone lines as means for distributing broadcast i.e. one to many information.

Current technology allows the size of antenna to be as small as 2 feet. The costs of antenna and transponder interface is already low enough to be within the reach of small business or a typical household. The newspaper publisher has to pay for the use of the transponder. However the cost is comparable to the printing and distribution costs of printed newspaper. It is anticipated that the costs of the newspaper distribution system in accordance with the present invention will be lowered as the number of subscribers increases.

In some locations it may not be desirable to use wired communication channel to link an earth station to subscribers. In such case wireless communication channel could be used. shows an earth station which receives transponder signal from transponder using an antenna . Earth station in turn broadcasts the digital data to its subscribers such as subscriber units and .

In one embodiment of system teletext technology is used to link earth station and subscriber units and . Thus earth station could be located adjacent to a television transmission station. The digital data received by earth station can be integrated to the vertical blanking interval of a TV signal which is broadcasted using an antenna . Subscriber units and receive the signal using antennas and respectively. The digital data is then retrieved. Various improvements and refinements of the teletext technology are well known and can be incorporated into system .

It should be obvious to a person skilled in the art that systems and are not limited to the distribution of a newspaper. Further electronic newspapers of the future may contain contents which are not available in the printed version such as video and other multimedia compositions. Other information such as magazines graphic images electronic mails computer games multimedia work or interactive movies could also be advantageously distributed using a system similar to systems and . For example if it is desirable to distribute interactive movies the non interactive portion can be broadcasted while the interactive portion is delivered using a bi directional channel.

There has thus shown and described a novel information distribution system. Many changes modifications variations and other uses and applications of the subject invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art after considering this specification and the accompanying drawings. All such changes modifications variations uses and applications are covered by the scope of this invention which is limited only by the appended claims.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

