---

title: Wideband radial power combiner/divider fed by a mode transducer
abstract: A radial power combiner/divider capable of a higher order (for example, N=24) of power combining/dividing and a 15% bandwidth (31 to 36 GHz). The radial power combiner/divider generally comprises an axially-oriented mode transducer coupled to a radial base. The mode transducer transduces circular TE01 waveguide into rectangular TE10 waveguide, and the unique radial base combines/divides a plurality of peripheral rectangular waveguide ports into a single circular TE01 waveguide end of the transducer. The radial base incorporates full-height waveguides that are stepped down to reduced-height waveguides to form a stepped-impedance configuration, thereby reducing the height of the waveguides inside the base and increasing the order N of combining/dividing. The reduced-height waveguides in the base converge radially to a matching post at the bottom center of the radial base which matches the reduced height rectangular waveguides into the circular waveguide that feeds the mode transducer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07385462&OS=07385462&RS=07385462
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07385462
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060314
---
The present application derives priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 663 330 filed 18 Mar. 2005.

The invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The invention relates to radial power divider combiners and in particular to radial power divider combiners that are suitable for use in solid state power amplifier SSPA devices.

Solid State Power Amplifiers SSPAs are used in a variety of applications ranging from satellites radar and other RF applications requiring high output power. Typical SSPAs can achieve signal output levels of more than 10 watts using solid state amplifiers such as Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuits MMICs or individual tube amplifiers.

A fundamental problem with conventional SSPA technology is that individual MMICs produce less power and operate at lower efficiency compared to the individual tube devices. At Ka band for example currently available MMIC chips have output power capability that is approximately an order of magnitude less compared to the Traveling Wave Tube Amplifier TWTA . The efficiency is approximately half.

Although a single MMIC amplifier chip cannot achieve the requisite level of output power without excessive size and power consumption issues MMIC technology is far more practical than tubes in space and other applications. MMIC technology offers a reduction in supply voltage potential reduction in cost improvement in linearity and reliability.

Consequently efforts have been made to combine the outputs of several individual MMIC amplifiers to achieve the desired total transmitter output and it has been found that a combination of a large number of MMICs is attractive for applications where these advantages outweigh the lost efficiency. Consequently existing SSPA designs using MMIC chips typically use a radial splitting and combining architecture in which a signal is divided into a number of individual components. Each individual signal component is amplified by a respective amplifier and the outputs of the amplifiers are combined into a single output that achieves the desired overall signal amplification.

However to meet the output power requirements of space telecommunication systems it is necessary to power combine a large number of individual MMICs in the SSPA and yet this must be done in a highly efficient manner.

Existing power combiners such as the in phase Wilkinson combiner or the 90 degree branch line hybrid combine a number of binary combiners in a cascaded manner but this architecture becomes very lossy and cumbersome when the number of combined amplifiers becomes large. For example to combine eight amplifiers using a conventional binary microstrip branch line hybrid at Ka band about 26.5 GHz the combiner microstrip trace tends to be about six inches long and its loss tends to exceed 3 dB. A 3 dB insertion loss infers that half of the RF power output is lost and this is unacceptable for most applications.

To overcome these loss and size problems other approaches including the stripline radial combiner oversized coaxial waveguide combiner and quasi optical combiner have been investigated. The stripline radial combiner using multi section impedance transformers and isolation resistors still suffers excessive loss at Ka band mainly because of the extremely thin substrate 

United States Patent Application 20050174194 by Wu You Sun et al. published Aug. 11 2005 shows an N Way Radial Power Divider Combiner in which an input signal is provided to a transmission antenna that propagates into a divider. Within the divider the input signal is divided into a plurality N of individual signals by waveguides disposed in a radial configuration around the transmitting antenna such that at least a portion of the input signal radiated by the antenna enters an input end of each waveguide. The individual signals are received by receiving antennas and provided to respective amplifiers. The amplifiers amplify the respective individual signals by a desired amplification factor. The amplified individual signals are provided to a plurality of transmitting antennas within the combiner. Inside the combiner the amplified individual signals are combined to form an output signal that is received by a receiving antenna in the combiner. Though a ten way divider combiner is shown N is said to be in the range of two to 100. The overall insertion loss of the 10 way power divider combiner was measured using input signals from 20 to 30 GHz and at 26.5 GHz the loss for the combiner alone is 0.71 dB at 26.5 GHz.

It would be desirable to adapt a radial power combiner architecture similar to the foregoing for a higher frequency bandwidth to power combine a larger number of amplifiers with better efficiency using a smaller combining circuit that has minimum power loss. This is herein achieved by increasing the number of combining ports using reduced height waveguides in the radial base. The radial base has reduced height waveguides with rectangular waveguide inputs leading a circular waveguide output defining properly spaced and properly chosen waveguide steps having incremental height changes. The reflections from the walls of the reduced height waveguides are matched by a matching post coupled to a Marie mode transducer. The present invention provides a low loss compact radial power divider combiner for use in high frequency SSPAs that offers an unparalleled size weight and power combination thereby offering a replacement for tube based flight and ground amplifiers used in earth orbiting defense missions and radar applications as well as satellite secure communications systems requiring large bandwidths secure satellite uplinks downlinks and cross links etc.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a radial power divider combiner for dividing combining large number of amplifier signals within a wide bandwidth using reduced height waveguides inside a radial base.

It is a more specific object to provide a low loss compact radial power divider combiner for use in wideband high frequency 15 bandwidth in the 30 36 GHz range Solid State Power Amplifier SSPA applications that offers an unparalleled size weight and power combination.

It is another object to provide a radial power divider combiner that facilitates replacement of tube based flight and ground amplifiers with solid state MMIC based amplifiers for use in earth orbiting defense missions and radar applications as well as satellite secure communications systems requiring large bandwidths secure satellite uplinks downlinks and cross links etc.

According to the present invention the above described and other objects are accomplished by providing a novel radial power combiner divider with a higher order of power combining dividing within a wide high frequency bandwidth. The radial power combiner divider generally comprises an axially oriented mode transducer coupled to a radial base. The unique mode transducer transduces circular TE01 waveguide into rectangular TE10 waveguide and the unique radial base combines divides a plurality of ports into from the single circular TE01 waveguide end of the transducer. The radial base incorporates full height waveguides at the plurality of ports that are stepped down to reduced height waveguides using stepped impedance transformers. This presents a stepped impedance configuration that allows for reduced height waveguides inside the radial base the height of the waveguides otherwise limiting the order N of combining and hence a higher order combiner divider. The reduced height waveguides in the base converge radially to a matching post at the bottom center of the radial base which matches the reduced height rectangular waveguides into the circular waveguide that feeds the mode transducer. The matching post allows for a better output match at the circular waveguide of the radial base which in turn with the mode transducer allows for a good output match of the divider combiner as a whole.

The combiner divider is herein illustrated in detail in the context of an N 24 combiner for use in Ka band over the band of 31 36 GHz with an input match 

While for the purposes of this description the innovation has been described as a power combiner it also functions as a power divider.

The present invention is a radial power divider and or combiner for dividing combining a increased number N of amplifier signals within a wide bandwidth using compact radial format. The radial power combiner divider generally comprises an axially oriented mode transducer coupled to a radial base. The mode transducer transduces circular TE01 waveguide into rectangular TE10 waveguide and the radial base combines divides a plurality of ports into from the single circular TE01 waveguide end of the transducer. The radial base is formed with a plurality of internal waveguides leading from peripheral output ports and converging radially to the center the internal waveguides incorporating a stepped impedance configuration that allows a reduction in their size and increase in the order N of combining. The base also includes a matching post at the bottom center which matches the reduced height rectangular waveguides into the circular waveguide that feeds the mode transducer.

The invention may be implemented as a power combiner or power divider or may be combined in a power divider combiner.

The combiner divider is herein illustrated in detail in the context of an N 24 combiner for use in Ka band over the band of 31 36 GHz with an input match 

The power divider combiner generally comprises a radial base with a plurality N of internal waveguides here N 24 running axially and internal to the base from peripheral ports spaced evenly around the base and converging to a matching post obscured in the center of base . For testing purposes a plurality of matching loads are shown mounted axially around the base to balance the ports not in use and each load is coupled to a non use port by machine screw attachment to the periphery of the base . The base has a topside center output port obscured for mounting a mode transducer . The mode transducer is a three section transducer with distal ports that convert the TE01 circular waveguide mode at the center output port of base back into standard rectangular TE01 waveguide mode at transducer port .

As best seen at exploded illustrations D E the sectioned internal waveguides of the first section D are evenly spaced and radially converge toward a central cylindrical cavity that is formed with a central cylindrical matching post at the center. The matching post protrudes upward to a plateau even with the inner surface of the first section. The sectioned internal waveguides of the second section E likewise converge to the topside center output port which is formed as a central cylindrical aperture that conforms to the cavity . In accordance with the present invention each axial waveguide along both sections is formed with a rectangular cross section that extends uniformly from ports to one or more constricted steps three successive steps A C being here illustrated the steps effectively forming a rectangular stepped impedance configuration with incremental height changes.

In general operation when used as a combiner rectangular TE01 waveguide signals input to ports form reflections along the walls of the stepped height waveguides which must be combined properly into a TE01 circular waveguide mode and this purpose is served by the matching post which provides a circular waveguide output through the topside center output port aperture into the mode transducer described below. Thus the radial base has standard rectangular TE10 mode waveguide input and a circular waveguide TE01 mode output at aperture .

A cross section of the mode transducer body is show at with exemplary dimensions in inches . The flange of port is secured to transducer body as shown and is attached directly to the base via machine screws for coupling the transducer body thereto to aperture in communication with the cavity and matching post of base .

The transducer body of the mode transducer is designed to convert the radial base circular TE01 waveguide output at aperture back to rectangular TE10 waveguide mode. Generally the transducer body of the mode transducer was designed based on the concept of S. S. Saad J. B. Davies and O. J. Davies Analysis and Design of a Circular TE01 Mode Transducer Microwave Optics and Acoustics vol. 1 pp. 58 62 Jan. 1977. Saad et al. therein disclose the concept of a Marie Mode transducer for transducing multiple rectangular TE10 modes to circular TE01 mode. Multiple TE01 modes are transitioned into an intermediate mode which is transitioned into a circular TE01 mode and vice versa. The present transducer employs different symmetry considerations and dimensions.

As seen in the transducer body includes three distinct sections beginning at the TE01 end left with a tapered cylindrical waveguide section running approximately one third the length of transducer body and tapering inward to transition the multiple TE01 modes from base into an intermediate cylindrical mode. Next an outwardly tapered rectangular waveguide section running approximately one third the length of transducer body and tapering outward to transition the intermediate cylindrical mode to an intermediate rectangular mode. Finally a pyramidal section running the last third the length of transducer body to transition the intermediate rectangular mode to a rectangular TE01 mode.

The exact profile contour and length of each section must be precisely tuned in order to make it possible to combine 24 inputs operating from 31 to 36 GHz. Consequently are each composite drawings illustrating the particular profile contour and length of each of section respectively.

Beginning at the TE01 end shows the tapered cylindrical waveguide section including a perspective view A and a side view B with dimensions in inches left end view C and right end view D . The cylindrical waveguide section begins at the left with a full cylindrical cross section of constant radius as seen at C running 0.4724 inches then beginning a gradual taper to a cross shaped section at right and as seen at D . The dimensions inches and angular disposition of the cross shaped section are indicated in . The cylindrical waveguide section tapers inward to transition the multiple TE01 modes from base into an intermediate cylindrical mode.

The cylindrical waveguide section merges into an outwardly tapered rectangular waveguide section shown in which likewise runs approximately one third the length of transducer body and tapers from the cross shaped section of to a flat waveguide section.

Finally illustrates the pyramidal section that runs the last third of transducer body to transition the intermediate rectangular mode to a fully rectangular TE01 mode. shows the pyramidal section from various perspectives including a perspective view A a right end view B with both linear and angular dimensions inches side view C and top view D . The pyramidal section begins at left conforming to the flat horizontal rectangular waveguide section at the right of and graduating to a flat orthogonal waveguide section at the right of thereby converting the intermediate rectangular mode to a fully rectangular TE01 mode at output port of .

The three above described sections and are preferably integrally formed in a unitary transducer body which is then attached to ports .

It is noteworthy that the above described transducer can easily be designed to provide two different rectangular waveguide outputs by modification of only section leading to an alternate design for multiple frequency ranges with a common circular waveguide input.

For operation of the power divider combiner as a divider. In this case a signal generator will provide an input signal to the divider at the input flange of mode transducer via a coaxial cable attached to the flange via a connector which may be an SMA connector for example. Once inside the mode transducer the signal propagates down through the transducer body through the a pyramidal section which transitions from rectangular TE01 mode to intermediate rectangular mode then through tapered rectangular waveguide section which transitions the intermediate rectangular mode to an intermediate cylindrical mode and finally through the tapered cylindrical waveguide section which transitions the intermediate rectangular mode to a single cylindrical TE10 modes which is propagated into base . The matching post provides a circular waveguide output from the transducer into a rectangular mode within each axial waveguide in the base . The waveguides maintain a rectangular cross section to the constricted steps which impart a rectangular stepped impedance configuration as a result of their incremental height changes. Thus inside the base the signals are effectively divided to form N output signals here N 24 . One or more of these output signals may then be provided to a signal receiver coupled to ports . The signal receiver may be a test device such as a spectrum analyzer or a multiple amplifier module.

By reversing signal direction the divider combiner may function as a combiner. In this case a plurality N of TE01 waveguide signals are input at ports via coaxial cables or the like and propagate in through the waveguides which maintain a rectangular cross section to the constricted steps . The steps impart a rectangular stepped impedance configuration as a result of their incremental height changes. The N signals are combined and transitioned by matching post from rectangular TE01 mode to circular TE10 mode and the combined signal is output through port into the mode transducer body . Inside the transducer body the signal propagates through the tapered cylindrical waveguide section then through tapered rectangular waveguide section and finally through the rectangular waveguide section which transitions the intermediate rectangular mode to a single rectangular TE01 mode which is output through port . A prototype N 24 combiner has been constructed for Ka band and demonstrated over the band of 31 36 GHz with an input match 

Generally for normal operation all ports will be used. However for testing purposes only one or two ports will be used and a plurality of matching loads are shown mounted axially around the base to balance the ports not in use. The divider combiner may be tested using a conventional vector network analyzer VNA consisting of a sweep oscillator a test set which includes two ports a control panel an information display and coaxial cables to attach to the divider combiner .

In measurements were competed with the VNA port fixed on port of the divider combiner VNA port on ports through the transducer at S N and Base S N .

In measurements were completed with the VNA port fixed on port of the divider combiner VNA port on ports through keeping orientation same as above the Transducer at S N and Base at S N .

Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth herein.

