---

title: Non-surgical method for treating cataracts in mammals including man
abstract: An anti-oxidant cocktail demonstrated efficacious in the treatment of avian and mammalian cataracts, useful for veterinary and human use as a veterinary or human pharmaceutical (to cure existing cataracts) or as a dietary supplement (to maintain a healthy, non-diseased state).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07776364&OS=07776364&RS=07776364
owner: Advanced Scientific, LLC
number: 07776364
owner_city: Washington Crossing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060324
---
For optimal vision ocular lens proteins should be translucent. Senile cataracts are generally thought to be the result of oxidation damage to expressed DNA sequences that encode for ocular lens proteins. This oxidation damage is generally thought to be caused by free radicals in vivo. As a result of free radical oxidation the coding DNA sequence is transcribed and translated into polypeptide which is not completely transparent. Eventually this accumulation of errors develops into what is medically recognized as a cataract.

The eye protects its DNA from damage with numerous antioxidant systems. In the development of a senile cataract I infer that more than one of these antioxidants systems have been compromised or damaged. This injury results in an accrual of damage at a faster rate than repair can take place in the eye.

The prior art generally focuses on one or two components for eye care. Thus previous attempts to treat senile cataracts have focused on single components such as L Carnosine or N Acetyl L Carnosine as antioxidants. For example Mark A. BABIZHAYEV Published PCT Application No. WO 2004 28536 teaches the use of L carnosine and Acetylhistidine for cataracts. Alternatively Mark A. BABIZHAYEV et 20 al. 254 1 1995 Mark A. BABIZHAYEV et al. 22 979 2001 and Mark A. BABIZHAYEV Published PCT Application No. WO 1995 10294 teaches to use N acetylcarnosine for the treatment of cataracts. These types of eye drop treatments have met with only very limited success because no single antioxidant developed previously has been powerful enough to compensate for all of the compromised systems in the eye.

In contrast I reasoned that a multi faceted systems based approach to supplementing the major antioxidant systems in the eye might be more efficacious. As a result I focused my research on a multifaceted approach that incorporates a formula comprising numerous antioxidants each designed to support a specific and crucial failing antioxidant system in the eye. My result is a complex system which is far more effective that a single ingredient approach since it is able to slow or stop damage on a much wider scale that of a single component approach.

My invention constitutes a new non surgical method for treating common eyesight obstructions i.e. cataracts lenticular sclerosis which is very broad in nature. It generally constitutes the administration of a specially formulated anti oxidant eye drop topically administered three times per day. The eye drop utilizes a systems type approach to relieving oxidant strain on the eye. Previous art has addressed only one or two antioxidant systems which are insufficient to allow the eye to repair the oxidative damage accrued resulting in the formation of the cataract or vision obstruction. A comprehensive systems approach however relieves oxidative strain on the eye in a manner sufficient to allow to eye to repair itself i.e. dissolve the cataract or lenticular sclerosis in approximately 70 days in human subjects. This holds true for cataracts so severe that the only other treatment option is laser surgery. This approach is analogous to kidney dialyzation which reduces the normal work load on the kidney thus allowing the kidney to repair the damage to itself to some degree.

My invention is composed of numerous sophisticated antioxidants which work in concert utilizing a systems approach. Some of these antioxidants are so unusual that they must be custom synthesized i.e. synthetically produced in a laboratory before being formulated into the eye drop in the correct proportions. These antioxidants when placed in the eye in a liquid solution form act together and possibly synergistically to supplement the various natural eye antioxidant systems which would be normally produced in sufficient quantities to protect the eye from genetic damage and error.

However as a mammal ages it often becomes incapable of producing sufficient quantities of these antioxidants due to free radical damage to protect the highly conserved part of the genome which specifies these crucial eye antioxidants. This results in the formation of aberrant proteins which cloud the lens ultimately forming a cataract. By exogenously administering these antioxidants and other nutrients the eye is temporarily relieved of the burden of synthesizing these antioxidants and can devote its limited energy to repairing the cataract. See analogy to dialysis supra . Depending upon the synthetic methods used and the concentration of the antioxidants used in the formula 15 milliliters approximately a two month supply of the eye drop can usually have an obvious positive effect on a human in 2 3 months. The steps involved in manufacturing the invention are the synthesis purchase of the necessary ingredients the formulation of these components into a liquid solution and then the sterilization of this bulk solution through a 0.2 micron filter for sterilization. The sterile bulk solution can then be packaged according to retail needs requirements.

The efficacy and superiority of my systems based approach is supported by actual treatment results which distinguishes my eye drop discovery from other previous attempts to reduce oxidative damage in the eye that allows the eye to repair the cataract. Currently there are no known disadvantages or limitations of my product.

Like the prior art my product includes N acetylcarnosine. N acetylcarnosine is a powerful antioxidant. It provides longer term protection against free radicals than Carnosine due to its longer in vivo residence and activity time in the cells before being ultimately metabolized into Carnosine itself. In contrast to the prior art however I add several other components to make a synergistically more effective mixture.

One component is L Carnosine. L Carnosine is known in the art to be significantly less stable in vivo than is N Acetylcarnosine. Thus one might expect L Carnosine to add little or no benefit to N Acetylcarnosine. I have found however that adding L Carnosine provides an immediate neutralization of already existing free radicals in vivo an immediate neutralization which N Acetylcarnosine due to its greater thermodynamic stability effects much more slowly. Carnosine has been approved by the Russian Federation as 5 ophthalmic solution for use in eye drops as and adjunct therapy for treating corneal ulcers herpes virus infections bacterial infections and dry keratoconjuctivitis. See generally Maichuk IuF 113 20 27 1997 .

Another component is L Glutathione. In a healthy lens this may be the single most important antioxidant. In vivo L Glutathione becomes oxidized thus absorbing free radicals . Once it is oxidized however it cannot accept further free radicals unless it is reduced again. For a general background on glutathione and its potential as a lens antioxidant see Giblin Frank J. 16 2 J. A.   2000 .

Thus I also use L cysteine. The body uses L cysteine to reduces the L Glutathione which becomes oxidized in vivo in the eye. This enables the L Glutathione to effect several oxidation reduction cycles. Cysteine eye concentration is a known rate limiting factor in glutathione ocular synthesis. See Rathbun W. B. 53 EXPER. EYE RES. 205 1991 .

I prefer to provide the L cysteine in the form of a water soluble precursor such as the salt cysteine ascorbate which provides a water stable source of both L cysteine and vitamin C both important water soluble antioxidants. The stability of aqueous cysteine ascorbate has not been completely described although it appears to be the most stable of all amino ascorbates in water ranging from ambient temperature to above boiling. See Lotti B. 27 275 1972 . Vitamin C is known in the art to be an excellent absorber of UV radiation between 280 310 nm. See Brubaker Richard F. 41 T. L. I. 1681 2000 . Vitamin C is known to be highly concentrated in both the aqueous humor and the corneal epithelium of the eye even in the absence of any topical nutritional supplementation. See id. Thus one of skill in the art might believe it superfluous to add topically add additional vitamin C. Cf. Tessier F. 68 J. T. S. 309 1998 . I to the contrary believe topical vitamin C and L Cysteine quite beneficial because together as a salt they stabilize the L cysteine and Ascorbic acid in the aqueous solution without the use of minerals which catalyze free radical reactions. Aqueous stabilization of these compounds has long been an object of prior art. I also prefer to add other nutrients to support the repair of the damaged lens tissues etc. . . . For example I prefer to include riboflavin because it plays a critical role in the synthesis of glutathione reductase. See Beatty Steven 45 115 2000 .

As another example I prefer to include taurine because in the eye taurine concentrations are higher than that of any other amino acid in a healthy eye ranging from about 50 to 70 mM . See Lima L. 24 M. S. 1133 1999 . Additionally taurine may act to actually regenerate nerve cells such as neurites in the optic nerve. Id.

As with any ophthalmic the pH of the final product should be buffered and adjusted to an appropriate pH. While different buffers may be suitable I prefer to use sodium bicarbonate because a bicarbonate electrolyte composition which is near that of human tears appears to promote healing of the corneal epithelium. See Lopez Bernard D. 12 115 1993 . In addition the solution must be kept aprotic basic i.e. pH above 7.0 to remain stable. The use of sodium bicarbonate as a buffer accomplishes this naturally.

I prefer to add propylene glycol in the range of 0.2 1.0 or another acceptable ophthalmic lubricant. Propylene glycol is an F.D.A. approved ingredient for ophthalmic use as a lubricant. See 21 C.F.R. 349.12 d 5 . Under ordinary conditions propylene glycol is stable however mixing it with water may accelerate its tendency towards oxidation at higher temperatures. Consequently it is advisable to add antioxidants to prevent any undesirable oxidation of the propylene glycol. In addition the product should be stored in a cool 70 80 F. but not cold i.e. as in a refrigerator environment as chilling the solution may cause precipitation crystallization of certain antioxidants.

I also prefer to include polysorbate 80 in the range of 0.20 1.0 because it is more chemically stable than is propylene glycol. Use of this in conjunction with propylene glycol increases the chance of successfully treating ocular xerosis in a greater percentage of users than relying on only one or the other ingredient. Further it is F.D.A. approved for ophthalmic use as a lubricant. See 21 C.F.R. 349.12 d 4 .

I prefer to use pharmaceutical grade compounds to make my preparation most of these are commercially available. At the present time N Acetyl L Carnosine CAS No. 56353 15 2 is not commercially available it may however be synthesized as is known in the art. Commercially procured Carnosine used to require purification to remove the hydrazine contaminant generated during its synthesis. This is no longer necessary as manufacturers have recognized and corrected the problem. See Decker E. A. 65 766 2000 Zhou Shengying 261 79 1998 .

a. Weigh measure out appropriate amounts of ingredients 1 9. Note Use initially only 5 6 grams of sodium bicarbonate then later adjust final pH of final solution to approximately 7.2 7.4 by using additional sodium bicarbonate total sodium bicarbonate 8.5 9.5 grams total 20 liters . b. Dissolve ingredients 1 8 in 15 liters of distilled water at room temperature 20 C. . Note This may require some form of agitation to effect complete solution of all ingredients.

c. Dissolve ingredient 9 with stirring or shaking in approximately one liter of distilled water previously heated to 50 C.

d. Combine solution containing ingredients 1 8 with solution containing ingredient 9. Dilute to final volume of 20 liters with additional distilled water and thoroughly agitate to create a homogeneous solution.

e. Adjust pH of final 20 liter solution to 7.2 7.4 by portion wise addition of remaining sodium bicarbonate. Note Thoroughly agitate the solution after addition of each portion in order to accurately measure pH until 20 liter solution is slightly acidic pH 7.2 7.4 . f. Filter final 20 liter solution through 0.2 m cartridge filter system to effect sterilization of final solution.

The Assignee initiated a veterinary private practice and university based objective study designed to evaluate the efficacy of my preparation on mammalian and avian eye cataracts. The study was conducted in the USA Canada and the United Kingdom. The test subjects were predominately dogs a species that has a particularly high incidence of cataracts. Initial study results are as follows 

Pets with mature well established cataracts and who had compliant type owners were selected for the study. Owners were instructed to apply one drop three times daily in each treatment eye. Owners were requested to return to their veterinarian at four six and eight weeks after starting the test period to enable the attending veterinarian to evaluate the test subject. My preparation was tested on three species dog parrot and cat.

Our results show that my preparation is effective after only four weeks of use. Of 38 dogs age ranging from 4 to 18 years of age tested 31 achieved a positive outcome. Of one parrot tested one achieved a positive outcome. Of one cat tested one achieved a positive outcome. Table 1 provides examples of comments recorded by the veterinarians attending to the dogs.

The Test Subject was virtually blind in both eyes due to cataract formations due to traumas. The Test Subject was scheduled for cataract surgery. One eye was tested for responsiveness to my preparation. After four weeks of treatment the owner has seen enough improvement in the cataracts that surgery has been cancelled. In addition the owner observed that the long time sightless test eye now is showing an improvement in opacity and that the test subject is now responding to sight movement where there was no response previously.

A veterinarian reviewing these photographs concluded The lenticular opacity is not very visible on the week 0 photos however what I notice is that the sclera although still hyperemic appears somewhat better organized around the margins of the iris on the week 4 5 photo and at least you can see the lenticular opacity on the week 4 photo. 

In addition to an observable clarification in lens transparency various pet owners have reported that within just a few weeks of treatment they have noticed changes in their animal s behavior including 

As with any study patient compliance is an issue to consider both in the application of the eye drops as prescribed and in reporting for progress analysis to the attending veterinarian or physician for human use . Every reasonable effort has been made to have the test subjects selected to meet acceptable standards. All patients selected had mature well formed cataracts that in many cases had taken years to form.

These results indicate that my product will be highly effective in treating already existing cataracts as well as in preventing new cataracts i.e. useful in preventive treatment to maintain a healthy normal state .

As it now stands the present formula is generally capable of either completely eliminating surgically severe cataracts in humans in 60 90 days or at least reducing their severity so that surgery is no longer required. When using this same human formula in mammals such as canines a longer period of treatment is required for similar results. This may be due to the fact that canines simply do not have as sophisticated reparative mechanisms in the eye as do humans or it may also be that the present formula may need to be optimized for each mammalian species it is intended to treat. For comparison purposes the only other semi effective eye drop purported to treat cataracts requires at least 6 months to show even a marginal improvement in reducing the cataract and in some cases no benefit can be ascertained even after 6 months of treatment see Babizhayev WO 2004 028536 whereas there have been no treatment failures utilizing the present formula of invention.

Therefore a utility of my invention is to provide a highly effective extremely safe and cost effective alternative to the only other treatment option laser surgery for severe cataracts in mammals especially man . In addition my invention can be used as a prophylactic to prevent the formation of cataracts in mammals such as canines felines reptiles etc. but especially man.

Presently mammalian cataracts are treatable primarily by laser surgery which is not only expensive approximately 2 500.00 but poses significant side effects including the possibility of blindness. Lens transplants also may be effective but are also equally expensive and heal very slowly. The present invention offers a highly effective no treatment failures in preliminary testing and at a cost of less than 160.00 per treatment period.

In the claims appended I use the term comprising to allow for additional matter. Thus the singular encompasses the plural e.g. composition comprising a salt reads on compositions including one and possibly more salts . I intend the legal coverage of this patent to be defined by the claims rather than the abstract or specification this is what claims are for .

