---

title: Artemisinins in the clinical and veterinary management of kinetoplastid infections
abstract: The invention relates to the treatment of kintoplastid infections by administering a pharmaceutical composition containing an extract from the plant . The invention also relates to isolated, semi-synthetic and synthetic artemisinins that show improved efficacy in treating kinetoplastid infections. This invention also relates to a method of treating kintoplastid infections with artelinic acid and artemisinins and where Artelinic acid is administered orally.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07566465&OS=07566465&RS=07566465
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07566465
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061221
---
This invention relates to methods of treating and managing kinetoplastid infections by administering artemisimins and artelinic acid.

Trypanosomiasis is a re emerging 1 3 tropical infectious disease that poses a real challenge to public health countermeasures. According to the World Health Organization WHO 4 about 36 sub Saharan countries in West Central and East Africa and some 22 Latin countries in Central and South America delimit its geographic prevalence zone thus leading to the establishment of two distinct manifestations of the disease African trypanosomiasis and American trypanosomiasis.

American trypanosomiasis Chagas disease occurs mainly in countries such as Brazil Chile Mexico Uruguay Paraguay Bolivia and Argentina 10 11 . Over 13 million persons in the Southern American region are at risk of infection and the annual incidence rates of the disease reaches 200 000 cases in 15 endemic countries 10 . The bloodstream protozoan 10 12 is the etiologic agent of Chagas disease.

Host to host transmission is mediated by blood sucking triatomine bugs such as 11 . Moreover blood transfusion and congenital transmission have been encountered particularly in humans 10 . These pathogens are all cyclically transmitted to mammalian hosts through the bite of haematophagus tsetse flies 9 serving as vectors of the disease.

The consistent decimation of human populations and cattle by African trypanosomiasis has reached dramatic proportions and represents a social and economical obstacle for development 6 7 . In AAT breeding animal losses are estimated to cost African farmers US 4.5 billion per year 8 . Bloodstream flagellated protozoan members of the taxonomic genus are incriminated as the causative agents 1 7and provoke human African trypanosomiasis sleeping sickness while and cause animal African trypanosomiasis nagana http www.vet.uga.edu vpp gray book FAD AAT.htm .

In the particular case of human African trypanosomiasis the trypanosomes multiply in the blood and lymph glands of the infected persons therefore defining the first stage of sleeping sickness 5 13 . The symptoms in this early stage are characterized by bouts of fever headaches skin itching pain in the joints gradual loss of weight nausea and vomiting 6 9 . Later in the second stage the trypanosomes cross the blood brain barrier and invade the central nervous system to cause sleeping sickness. Sleeping sickness is characterized by neurological disorders such as mental confusion sensory disturbances and poor muscular coordination and reversal of the circadian sleep wake cycle insomnia in the night drowsiness in the daytime 5 9 13 14 hence the nickname sleeping sickness . In the absence of effective treatment sleeping sickness invariably leads to death 3 6 .

Control measures for African trypanosomiasis are directed either against the transmission vector through eradication of the tsetse fly or against the causative pathogen trypanosomes. Although vector control strategies had been effective in the past they have been virtually abandoned because of their harmful effects on the environment 7 . Treatment of infected persons with the few available synthetic trypanocidal agents have shown significant drawbacks 15 17 related to high cost host toxicity limited oral bioavailability and a requirement for hospitalization during the entire course of treatment. The emergence of drug resistance has also limited the choice and effectiveness of affordable agents in clinical use. Moreover the type of treatment depends on the stage of the disease hemolymphatic first stage or cerebral second stage . Effectiveness in the second stage relies on the ability of the drug to cross the blood brain barrier and reach concentrations high enough to kill the infective trypanosome. The four trypanocidal drugs shown below 5 6 13 that have been clinically used up to date against sleeping sickness are in chronological order Suramin developed in 1921 against in the first stage infection Pentamidine discovered in 1941 against first stage infection Melarsoprol developed in 1949 against both human infective subspecies in cerebral infection and Difluoromethyl ornithine developed in 1981 as an alternative to Melarsoprol treatment failure in cerebral sleeping sickness . and show the known trypanocidal drugs for early stage infection which are suramin and pentamidine respectively. Suramin has no oral bioavailability and causes hemolysis and kidney disease. Pentamidine has no oral bioavailability is an immunosuppressive and causes bleeding. and show the known trypanocidal drugs for cerebral infection which are melarsoprol and difluoromethyl ornithine DFMO respectively. Melarsoprol has no oral bioavailability and causes tumors in the brain blood in the urine and stomach pain. DFMO has no oral bioavailability and has a high susceptibility to resistance.

In the absence of prospective vaccine candidates for the disease the limitations and drawbacks of these drugs emphasize the crucial need to develop new safe effective and affordable drugs trypanocides against all forms of human and veterinary trypanosomiasis.

The Chinese plant has been used to treat malaria for centuries. Research in the past three decades have uncovered artemisinin derivatives like artemisinin dihydroartemisinin artemether artesunate that have played a critical role in the management of infectios caused by the multi drug resistant malaria parasite . Artemisinin has also been reported to be selectively active against cancer cells in vitro 39 . Utzinger et al. have demonstrated the use of artemisinin derivatives against tropical parasite species responsible for schistosomiasis 40 . The effect of artemisinin and its derivatives on another tropical parasite provoking leishmaniasis has also been reported 41 . However the widespread use of this class of semi synthetic artemisinin derivatives have been limited by the high cost of production low bioavailability and long treatment regimens.

African Asian and Amerindian societies have a rich tradition 17 in the use of plants for medical care. However only few reports exist on the phytochemical treatment of sleeping sickness 17 and other kinetoplastid infections. Artemisinins have never before been used to treat human and veterinary trypanosomiasis. Until now no experimental study has been carried out to establish the effectiveness of artemisinin or its derivatives on any species.

The inventors are the first report on the trypanocidal potency of artemisinin and by extension artemisinin derived compounds including artelinic acid.

Therefore an object of the invention is to prepare a pharmaceutical composition containing artemisinin lead compounds from natural resources for the treatment of trypanosomiasis. Medicinal plants such as have secondary metabolites of diverse molecular structures physico chemical properties and pharmacological activities and offer an invaluable reservoir for new remedies.

Another object of the invention is to provide a cost effective treatment for kinetoplastid infections.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method of treating humans and other mammals with kinetoplastid infections with artemisimin compounds such as artemisinin and artelinic acid.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood however that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

The invention relates to the treatment of kintoplastid infections by administering a pharmaceutical composition containing an extract from the plant . The invention also relates to synthetic artemisinins that show improved efficacy in treating kinetoplastid infections. This invention also relates to a method of treating kintoplastid infections with artelinic acid and artemisinins.

The accompanying drawings show illustrative embodiments of the invention from which these and other of the objectives novel features and advantages will be readily apparent.

The present invention relates to treatment of kinetoplasmid infections such as Leishmaniasis and Trypanosomaisis with artemisinins such as artelinic acid and or trioxolane compounds.

The antimalarial activity of the artemisinins is believed to reside in the generation of toxic free oxygen radicals subsequent to the interaction with heme released from the metabolism of hemoglobin. The inventors have found that artemisinins and synthetic artemisinins in particular artelinic acid and trioxolane compounds are effective in a method of treatment of kinetoplasmid infections particularly against and

The structural identity and biological activity of compounds extracted from the medicinal plant Plant C 1 was established. For these experiments chromatographic techniques were used for total purification of the active principles. Various spectroscopic methods and conventional database analysis were also utilized for chemical structure elucidation. The identified candidates were subjected to standard bioassay protocols for in vitro characterization of their trypanocidal activity and also selective toxicity against trypanosomes versus mammalian host cells.

The extract of the plant was shown to kill parasited cultivated within mouse macrophages in vitro in a dose dependant manner without significant toxicity to the mouse macrophages. The results were duplictated using commercially sourced artemisinin. The active compound in the compound was isolated and purified and chemically identified as artemisinin.

In the case of artemisinin the compound was extracted from with 70 aqueous EtOH at room temperature for 48 h first extraction and then 24 h each for the second and third extraction. The extracts were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain the EtOH extract. The EtOH extracts were purified by organic solvent fractionation and a combination of chromatographic procedures such as ion exchange on a DIAION HP 20 column and hydrophobic interaction on an ODS column and gel filtration on a Sephadex column. The active fractions were then identified. The following experiment confirms that the compounds that were extracted are efficacious against kinetoplastid infection and are artemisinins.

Culture suspension of was obtained from Research Institute for Microbial Diseases Osaka University Japan . Trypanosomes were subcultured in appropriate medium see 5.1.2 as frequently as needed to avoid overgrowth and maintained in culture flasks at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COatmosphere incubator. In addition parasite culture stabilates were prepared by suspending trypanosomes centrifugation 1500 rpm room temperature 3 min pellet in 1 mL of a mixture of 77 v v trypanosome dilution buffer 56 and 33 v v glycerol. The whole volume was transferred into cryotubes and stored at 80 C. until further needed.

The axenic cultivation of the bloodstream forms of was performed in Iscove s Modified Dulbecco s Medium Gibco supplemented with L glutamine and 25 mM HEPES buffer. Additionally 15 heat inactivated 56 C. 40 min fetal bovine serum FBS MultiSer and also 0.05 mM bathocuproine disulfonic acid disodium salt Dojin 1.5 mM L cystein Nacalai 1.0 mM hypoxanthine Nacalai 0.16 mM thymidine TCI 0.2 mM 2 mercaptoethanol Sigma and 1.0 mM sodium pyruvate Nacalai were aseptically incorporated in the culture medium.

All fractions obtained stepwise in the course of the separation process of the plant crude extracts were assessed for their in vitro activity against . Various concentrations of test samples were prepared in neat dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO Wako for biochemical assay then diluted in the culture medium so that DMSO content decreased to 10 in the medium. Trypanosomes were harvested at late exponential growth level counted with a hemocytometer Erma Tokyo 7059 and resuspended by appropriate dilution in culture medium for achieving a final density of 1 10cells mL. Aliquots of 90 L of suspension 1 10cells mL were transferred in wells of a Becton Dickinson 96 well microculture plate. Then 10 L of each sample preparation containing 10 DMSO were added to each inoculum well achieving a final concentration of 1 DMSO. The microculture plate was incubated in a humidified 5 COatmosphere incubator at 37 C. After successively 24 48 and 72 hr incubations parasites viability was determined by observing directly inside the wells of the microculture plate with an optical microscope Injectoscope model IMT YF Olympus . The in vitro trypanocidal potency of each sample was then evaluated and translated into mathematic symbols 

An axenic culture of human carcinoma HeLa S3 cell line was established in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle s Medium D MEM Sigma supplemented with 4500 mg glucose L L glutamine NaHCO and pyridoxine HCl to which 10 heat inactivated 56 C. 40 min fetal bovine serum FBS MultiSer was added.

Plant chromatographic fractions which have shown potent trypanocidal activity in vitro were selected for cytotoxicity assay. Previously dissolved in neat DMSO Wako for biochemical assay an aliquot of 10 L of each test sample was diluted in 490 L of the cell culture mediumwith the intent of decreasing the DMSO concentration to 2 in the medium.

HeLa S3 cells maintained in culture dish Sumilon were washed with Dulbecco s phosphate saline buffer DPBS Nissui Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd after syphonating the culture medium. Adherent cells were released from their dish bottom substrate by adding trypsin Nacalai and gently tapping with hand on the round lateral side of the dish. Thus trypsinized cells were harvested suspended in culture medium then centrifuged at 800 1000 rpm for 3 min at room temperature. After removing the supernatant the remaining pellet was resuspended in the culture medium. Cells were counted with a hemocytometer Erma Tokyo 7059 and then diluted appropriately to achieve a final density of 1 10cells mL in the culture medium. Later on cells were seeded in a 96 well microtiter plate Becton Dickinson each well containing 100 L 1 10cells mL of cell suspension. Then 100 L of test samples preparation see 5.2.2 were added in triplicate for each concentration into respective wells thus achieving a final concentration of 1 DMSO. Respective triplicate wells for the positive control mitomycin C and the negative control 1 DMSO only in culture medium were also included. After 72 hr incubation at 37 C. in a humidified 5 COatmosphere incubator Sanyo 25 L of MTT 3 4 5 dimethylthazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide 57 59 reagent were added to each well including controls. The microtiter plate was returned in the same incubator for an additional 3 hr exposure at 37 C. to allow the formazan 57 59 crystals to accumulate. Then supernatants were syphonated from the wells and 200 L of DMSO were added to solubilize the formazan crystals. After shaking MS1 Minishaker IKA for 3 5 min the absorbance in each well was measured at 540 nm in a microtiter plate reader ImmunoMini NJ 2300 . The percentage of cytotoxicity growth inhibition level was calculated as A B A 100 where A is the mean optical density of negative control wells and B is the mean optical density of test sample wells.

Dried and pulverized powder from plant C 1 2.3 kg were extracted three times with 80 ethanol after 24 hr maceration first time and 3 hr maceration second and third time at room temperature. The liquid extracts were combined filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure with a rotary evaporator below 30 C. The ethanolic residue 240 g obtained exhibited a complete inhibition of trypanosomes growth at 30 g mL after 24 hr exposure and 100 growth inhibition in vitro against at 100 g mL after 24 hr exposure. This residue was later on dissolved in double distilled water then subjected to solvent solvent partition in EtOAc and n BuOH to yield after solvent evaporation 72 g of EtOAc extract 74 g of n BuOH extract and 94 g of HO extract. The strongest trypanocidal activity in vitro was observed in the EtOAc extract exhibiting 100 and 80 growth inhibition against respectively at the concentrations of 50 g mL and 5 g mL after 24 hr exposure. This most potent EtOAc residue was applied to SiOgel column and eluted successively with binary solvent mixtures of hexane EtOAc 4 1 1 1 1 1.5 1 2 100 MeOH. The eluted fractions were monitored by normal phase TLC and similar fractions were pooled into five main fractions named A 280 mg B 341 mg C 1.72 g D 1.84 g and E 690 mg . Among them fraction C was the only one that showed trypanocidal activity until the low concentration value of 1 g mL thus featuring 80 growth inhibition after 24 hr incubation. Further separation of fraction C carried out by reversed phase ODS column chromatography and eluting gradually with 60 MeOH 80 MeOH 90 MeOH 100 MeOH yielded seven fractions named from C 1 to C 7. Fractions C 4 629 mg C 5 16 mg and C 6 139 mg showed the highest biological potency and an encouraging selectivity toward HeLa cell in vitro at 0.5 g mL with respectively 100 trypanocidal level and 5.5 cytotoxic level for C 4 80 trypanocidal level and 10.5 cytotoxic level for C 5 and 80 trypanocidal level and 14.9 cytotoxic level for C 6.

Firstly C 4 was subjected to final purification with HPLC column 5 SL II type Waters 10 250 mm i.d. flow rate 3.0 mL min detection refractive index detector at range 512 eluent hexane EtOAC 8 1 leading to isolation of C 46 7.1 mg at a tof 21.27 min whose trypanocidal activity in vitro was 80 growth inhibition after 24 hr incubation and the cytotoxic level in vitro was 17.3 at 1 g mL. Secondly C 5 was purified by normal phase HPLC column 5 SL II type Waters 10 250 mm i.d. flow rate 3.0 mL min detection refractive index detector at range 512 eluent hexane EtOAC 7 1 affording C 53 1.1 mg at t 12.99 min . Because of the small amount yielded by C 53 extensive spectral data measurement was inconvenient. Only H NMR data could be obtained. Thus purification was repeated starting off with a larger quantity of EtOAc extract. Fortunately 11.0 mg of C 53 were obtained. According to the bioassay outcome C 53 showed 80 growth inhibition in vitro against after 24 hr incubation at 1 g mL and only 3.1 inhibition ratio against HeLa cells in vitro at 5 g mL.

Comparison of H and C NMR H H COSY HMBC FAB MS and specific rotation data in our hands with those reported in the literature 34 35 led to conclusion that C 46 was artemisinin .

Relevant H and C NMR H H COSY HMQC HMBC NOESY FAB MS and HRFAB MS data were recorded the specific rotation value was calculated.

C 53 has trypanocidal potency in vitro but is slightly weaker than that of artemisinin. Nevertheless from its chemical characterization 1 D and 2D NMR FAB and HRFAB MS and specific rotation data that have been collected spectral data analysis reveals that C 53 might be polyalicyclic containing three characteristic methyl substituents and an unsaturated lactone ring displaying a molecular weight of 234 associated to the chemical formula CHO. Accordingly C 53 is presumed to be a sesquiterpene lactone congenere of artemisinin but obviously lacking the endoperoxide bridge. This activity is of more general interest because the mechanism of action of artemisinins as an anti plasmodial or anti tumoricidal agent is believed by some to be related to the presence of the endoperoxide bridge.

The information obtained by careful examination of C 53 and C46 as well as other eluted compounds in the above experiment verify that artemisinins are active ingredients in artemeseia annua that hinder the growth of kintoplastid infections.

Both compounds Artemisinin and Artelinic acid belong to the same class of compounds and both have been found by the inventors in testing to be effective against leishmaniasis and other kinteplastid infections.

Preliminary drug screening in vitro amastigote macrophage culture of artemisinin and artelinic acid compounds.

The four compounds were dissolved in the respective solvents as indicated in the table below Table 1 and were tested against ATCC 50122 amastigotes in vitro in a mouse macrophage system. A positive Pentostam and negative culture medium controls were set for each plate. Compounds were tested at 2.0 M in a total volume of 2 0 mls. Drug was added to well every 4 hours 1 2 and 3 and results shown in Table 2 below.

The results of the initial screen showed that Artelinic acid at 2 uM cleared all of the amastigates in macrophages. Observer also noted pinkish staining of the cytoplasm of the macrophages that was interpreted as cell toxicity. However similar changes were also noted in the negative control that had no compound added. The effectiveness of the WRAIR compounds tested in the screen was judged to be Artelinic acid Dihydroartemisinin Beta Arteether Artemisinin.

Because of the high potency of Artelinic acid relative to the other compounds the experiments were repeated with different doses of Artelinic acid alone. Additionally the addition of drug to culture wells q4h did not seem to affect the results for this compound Table 2 . Hence Artelinic acid was added once in the dose response experiments Table 3 .

The initial observation implicating Artemisinins was obtained with crude extracts from the plant . On the strength of these results Artemisinin derived compounds that had been synthesized previously as potential anti malarials were secured from the WRAIR inventory and tested See U.S. Pat. No. 4 791 135 incorporated in its entirety by reference for the preparation of synthetic artemisinins dihydroartemisinins and artesunic acid. . The active principle in the plant extract was prepared into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for treating kinetoplastid infections.

Pharmaceutical compositions containing the active ingredients from the plant including artemisinins and artelinic acid can be prepared using any known pharmaceutical carrier suitable for i.p. injection including but not limited to saline. Carriers for oral administration can be capsules or pills made by any known and accepted pharmaceutical composition used for carrying active ingredients to the digestive tract. Acceptable doses for oral administration are 4 8 ul kg for i.p or oral administration. Concentrations for in vitro testing are 0.01 to 2.0 uM

As shown in the results above Table 3 killing of intracellular amastigotes was noted at concentrations as low as 0.1 M of Artelinic acid and clearance was complete at doses as low as 0.25 M of compound.

Because of the marked potency of Artelinic acid in the clearance of intracellular amastigotes an in vivo screen was undertaken using BALB C mice. One foot pad was infected with infective promastigotes while the other foot served as control. After the infected foot pads had developed lesions mice with similar size lesions were selected and treated daily with test article for one week. The first doses were administered on 18 May. Lesions were measured with calipers prior to dosing and 9 days after commencement of treatment 27 May and the difference in lesion size calculated. The thickness of the uninfected footpad was also measured. Only Artelinic acid and the crude methanol extract of the plant that had shown marked potency in the mouse macrophage amastigote in vitro screen were tested in vivo. Test articles were administered orally and intra peritoneally ip .

Results Table 4 show that Artelinic acid and plant extract of containing artemisinins either given orally or ip to BALB c mice for one week led to a decrease in the size of lesions induced in the footpad of the animals. Both Artelinic acid and plant extract were much more effective than Pentostam the positive control at the doses and route of administration tested.

The in vivo experiments are remarkable in that Artelinic acid and the active ingredient in the plant extract artemisinins show potency against when administered orally. Moreover the in vitro experiments demonstrate that these compounds do not require to be metabolized into an active moiety by the liver for them to show potency against intracellular amastigotes.

The invention has been described herein with reference to certain preferred embodiments. However as obvious variations thereon will become apparent to those skilled in the art the invention is not to be considered as limited thereto.

