---

title: Information system service-level security risk analysis
abstract: Information system service-level security risk analysis systems, methods, and Graphical User Interfaces are disclosed. Assets of an information system that have relationships with a service provided by the information system are identified, and at least one security risk to the service is determined by analyzing security vulnerabilities associated with the identified assets. A consolidated representation of the service is provided, and includes an indication of the determined security risk(s) and an indication of a relationship between the service and at least one of the identified assets. The security risk indication may include indications of multiple security parameters. Security risks may be represented differently depending on whether they arise from a security vulnerability of an asset that has a relationship with the service or a security vulnerability of an asset that has a relationship with the service only through a relationship with an asset that has a relationship with the service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08438643&OS=08438643&RS=08438643
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08438643
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20060302
---
The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 131 598 entitled SECURITY RISK ANALYSIS SYSTEMS AND METHODS and filed on May 18 2005 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 132 118 entitled COMMUNICATION NETWORK SECURITY RISK EXPOSURE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS and filed on May 18 2005 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 366 100 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF ASSOCIATING SECURITY VULNERABILITIES AND ASSETS and filed of even date herewith and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 366 319 entitled SECURITY VULNERABILITY INFORMATION AGGREGATION and filed of even date herewith.

This application also claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 232 004 entitled APPLICATION OF CUT SETS TO NETWORK INTERDEPENDENCY SECURITY RISK ASSESSMENT and filed on Sep. 22 2005 and is a continuation in part.

The entire contents of each of the above identified applications are incorporated into the present application by reference.

This invention relates generally to security risk analysis and in particular to analysis of security risks at a service level in an information system.

In complex systems such as telecommunications and Information Technology IT infrastructures the potential impacts of security vulnerabilities even if discovered and disclosed tend to be difficult to assess in a timely fashion. This is primarily due to the number and nature of these vulnerabilities as well as the number of assets in such systems. Some assets may also have embedded software layers and other dependencies which further complicates security assessments. These complications may be further compounded when considering services provided in an information system since services may involve many different assets and dependencies with and between those assets.

The capacity to understand and make informed decisions soon after a vulnerability is disclosed is one key aspect of proactive security. Such capacity allows network operators for example to understand the security state i.e. the risk to a network infrastructure at any given time and to assign a priority action list for risk mitigation. Identification of commercial risks associated with relying on data stored and transmitted on network segments during a period of elevated security risk may also be of use in performing a comprehensive security assessment.

In common Network Management Systems NMSs a view of a managed communication network is limited to physical topology of interconnected systems. This view does not provide the level of information required to properly assess the status of aggregated views at higher layers suitable for operational decisions based on service business or functional priorities.

Several currently available management tools provide some sort of service level view. One tool has the ability to model a customer and create a relationship between the customer and a network based on a Service Level Agreement SLA profile. The model allows the presentation of services and customers their relationship to network objects and the relationships between network objects in the form of a graphical asset map. Another tool allows service level characteristics to be displayed in a basic color coded chart that represents a list of services and corresponding statuses in respect of performance applications systems network and security. Tools providing support for display of a service as a hierarchical graph of service and related asset icons grouped by customer are also known.

These and other existing tools however present limited or incomplete views of service level status or security risks. For example currently available tools do not provide a mechanism to present complex relationships between services assets and the physical topology of an information system in one consolidated representation. Some tools use separate views to present customer and service relationships asset relationships and physical topology whereas others do not present service relationships at all. This limits the tools in that a user is not able to quickly relate a service security risk state to its related assets.

A further shortcoming of existing tools relates to the level of information provided. Service status in a service level view may be limited to a color coded icon or list item that represents only one attribute or aggregated attribute without presenting in the same view lower level details regarding underlying assets that contribute to service level security for instance. Existing tools also do not differentiate between security metrics which may lead to difficulties in identifying exactly what an indicator is intended to indicate. A green icon may be intended to indicate that no alarms have been raised by a firewall but may be interpreted incorrectly by an operator as indicating that a service is secure for confidentiality. Other security vulnerabilities may exist but might not be clearly represented.

Current tools are further limited in terms of security monitoring and may report only the results and alerts received from firewall Intrusion Detection Systems IDSs and other security appliances for example. Such tools have no mechanism to collect or present information related to the analysis of assets and security vulnerabilities. Other tools that may support vulnerability analysis do not account for asset interdependence such that a failure in a database used by a software application that is involved in providing a service will not appear as a failure in the dependent application. Therefore critical aspects of information may be lost as information is aggregated up to the service level.

Embodiments of the invention enable complex information system asset relationships to be represented along with security risks to services provided in the information system to generate a service level view of interconnected assets. Services and also assets in some embodiments may be represented using icons that can display attributes such as total security risk impact to enable prioritization of operational response based on service priorities.

Service level views may allow representation of service risks calculated using any of various risk analysis functions. Other service level attributes associated with an SLA for example might also be represented in a service level view.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus that includes a risk analyzer configured to identify one or more assets of an information system that have respective relationships with a service provided by the information system and to determine one or more security risks to the service by analyzing security vulnerabilities associated with the identified assets and an interface operatively coupled to the risk analyzer and configured to provide a consolidated representation of the service the consolidated representation comprising an indication of the one or more determined security risks and an indication of at least one of the respective relationships between the service and the one or more identified assets.

Either or both of the risk analyzer and the interface may be implemented in software for execution by a processing element.

The one or more identified assets may include one or more other services that have respective relationships with the service.

The one or more identified assets may include an asset that has a relationship with the service only through a relationship with an asset that has a relationship with the service.

In some embodiments the risk analyzer is configured to determine the one or more security risks to the service by aggregating security risks to multiple contributing assets of the one or more identified assets. The risk analyzer may determine an aggregated security risk to the service by performing one of selecting as the aggregated security risk a maximum of the security risks to the multiple contributing assets selecting as the aggregated security risk a minimum of the security risks to the multiple contributing assets and determining the aggregated security risk based on a combination of maximum and minimum security risks to the multiple contributing assets.

The risk analyzer may be configured to determine an aggregated asset security risk to an asset of the one or more assets by aggregating security risks arising from multiple security vulnerabilities associated with the asset. In this case aggregating may involve performing one of determining the aggregated asset security risk based on a maximum of the security risks arising from the multiple security vulnerabilities determining the aggregated asset security risk based on a minimum of the security risks arising from the multiple security vulnerabilities and determining the aggregated asset security risk based on a combination of maximum and minimum security risks arising from the multiple security vulnerabilities.

The indication of the one or more determined security risks may include an indication of at least one security parameter.

The consolidated representation of the service may also include respective icons representing the service and at least one of the one or more identified assets. In this case the indication of the at least one of the respective relationships between the service and the one or more identified assets may include respective links between the respective icons representing the service and the at least one of the one or more identified assets.

In some embodiments the indication of the one or more determined security risks includes different representations of a security risk arising from a security vulnerability associated with an asset that has a relationship with the service and a security risk arising from a security vulnerability associated with an asset that has a relationship with the service only through a relationship with an asset that has a relationship with the service.

Where security risks to multiple contributing assets are aggregated the risk analyzer may maintain a record of at least one of the multiple contributing assets.

A method is also provided and involves identifying one or more assets of an information system that have respective relationships with a service provided by the information system analyzing security vulnerabilities associated with the one or more identified assets to determine one or more security risks to the service and providing in a consolidated representation of the service an indication of the one or more determined security risks and an indication of at least one of the respective relationships between the service and the one or more identified assets.

The operation of identifying may involve identifying an asset that has a relationship with the service only through a relationship with an asset that has a relationship with the service.

The indication of the one or more determined security risks may include an indication of at least one security parameter.

In some embodiments the indication of the one or more determined security risks includes different representations of a security risk arising from a security vulnerability associated with an asset that has a relationship with the service and a security risk arising from a security vulnerability associated with an asset that has a relationship with the service only through a relationship with an asset that has a relationship with the service.

The operation of determining the one or more security risks may involve determining one or more aggregated security risks by aggregating security risks to multiple contributing assets of the identified assets and maintaining a record of at least one contributing asset for each of the one or more aggregated security risks.

Security risks to multiple contributing assets may be aggregated to determine an aggregated security risk of the one or more security risks by performing one of selecting as the aggregated security risk a maximum of the security risks to the multiple contributing assets selecting as the aggregated security risk a minimum of the security risks to the multiple contributing assets and determining the aggregated security risk based on a combination of maximum and minimum security risks to the multiple contributing assets.

An aggregated asset security risk to an asset of the one or more assets may also be determined in some embodiments by aggregating security risks arising from multiple security vulnerabilities associated with the asset. This may involve performing one of determining the aggregated asset security risk based on a maximum of the security risks arising from the multiple security vulnerabilities determining the aggregated asset security risk based on a minimum of the security risks arising from the multiple security vulnerabilities and determining the aggregated asset security risk based on a combination of maximum and minimum security risks arising from the multiple security vulnerabilities.

A further aspect of the invention provides a Graphical User Interface GUI . The GUI includes a consolidated representation of a service provided by an information system and the consolidated representation includes an indication of one or more security risks to the service and an indication of at least one of one or more respective relationships between the service and one or more assets of the information system that contribute to the one or more security risks to the service.

The respective relationships may include an asset relationship between an asset which has a relationship with the service and another asset of the information system that has a relationship with the service only through the asset relationship.

The indication of the one or more determined security risks may include an indication of at least one security parameter.

In some embodiments the consolidated representation of the service also includes respective icons representing the service and at least one of the one or more identified assets. In this case the indication of the at least one of the respective relationships between the service and the one or more identified assets includes respective links between the respective icons representing the service and the at least one of the one or more identified assets.

The indication of the one or more determined security risks may include different representations of a security risk arising from a security vulnerability associated with an asset that has a relationship with the service and a security risk arising from a security vulnerability associated with an asset that has a relationship with the service only through a relationship with an asset that has a relationship with the service.

The one or more security risks may include one or more aggregated security risks determined by aggregating security risks to multiple contributing assets in which case the indication of the one or more security risks may include a functional graphical element representing an aggregated security risk of the one or more aggregated security risks. The functional graphical element provides access to a record of at least one of the contributing assets for the aggregated security risk.

An icon for display in a GUI includes a representation of an asset of an information system and respective indications of a plurality of security parameters for a security risk to the asset.

In some embodiments the asset is a service provided in the information system the service has respective relationships with one or more assets of the information system and the respective indications include respective sets of indications of the plurality of security parameters for security risks to the service. The respective sets of indications include a first set of indications of the plurality of security parameters for a security risk to the service arising from one or more security vulnerabilities associated with an asset of the one or more assets and a second set of indications of the plurality of security parameters for a security risk to the service arising from one or more security vulnerabilities associated with one or more other assets that have respective relationships with the service only through respective relationships with an asset of the one or more assets.

Other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific illustrative embodiments thereof.

As described briefly above currently available security assessment and management tools do not provide for a complete and comprehensive assessment of security especially for complex information systems such as communication networks.

For example four classes of system may be identified as providing partial solutions to security and vulnerability management in a network infrastructure. These classes include network vulnerability scanners intrusion detection prevention systems security event information systems and exposure risk management systems.

Of these classes the exposure risk management systems class includes the most extensive tools. A risk management system might provide for example a view of a network including scanners data and vulnerability data on an element by element basis for network elements such as firewalls and routers servers and other hosts. Typically each element is scanned or otherwise assessed on its own to determine its vulnerabilities. Visual maps of an enterprise network business applications and potential security problems give security personnel an overview of infrastructure security for each individual element and enables drill down capabilities for more detailed views relating to specific elements.

A form of business risk may be calculated by assessing both the likelihood of an attack and damage potential as measured by business impact variables. Risk factors might be determined at a detailed level taking into account various attack scenarios and vulnerabilities.

However currently known tools cannot address the scope of large telecommunications systems and other complex information systems. These tools cannot provide a realistic view for a complex network or take into account different groups of assets or relationships between assets in order to model a given service or mission.

In addition business risk calculations use attack likelihood based on path determination i.e. determining a chain of vulnerabilities and assets used to complete an attack. In a large and complex information system it is extremely difficult and thus impractical if not effectively impossible to determine an attack path for every possible attack and therefore its likelihood.

Reducing risk calculation to a specific attack path in this manner may be more efficient for a particular vulnerability or combination of vulnerabilities but could lead to misunderstanding of a more complex situation. This simplification could effectively cause an operator or other personnel to not realize that the actual risk is higher than presented which could have a huge impact on the overall assessment of the security state of an information system or the services provided in that system.

Embodiments of the invention provide a consolidated representation of service level security risks which may be determined using risk exposure management techniques. A flexible security model may provide a flexible asset representation model for mission and or service specific assets deployed in a communication network or other information system as well as physical logical topology of the network. A fully customizable and flexible risk exposure calculation may also take into account general security methodologies as well an extension scheme which accounts for specific commercial business risk.

Users owners may include for example owners or operators of a communication network or other stakeholders having an interest in assets .

Countermeasures represent actions such as upgrading an operating system or application software on a computer system asset for instance which may be taken to reduce vulnerabilities . A vulnerability is a condition in an asset s operation which makes it susceptible to an attack or possibly a failure. A security hole in operating system software is one illustrative example of a vulnerability.

Threat agents are parties wishing to abuse or use assets in a manner not intended by their users owners . A threat is an indication illustratively a probability that an asset may be harmed.

Assets in the example of a communication network are components of the network and may be either physical or logical. Vulnerabilities may exist for each type of asset .

As shown in users owners value assets wish to minimize risks to the assets and may be aware of vulnerabilities which lead to risks to assets . Vulnerabilities may be reduced by the users owners by imposing countermeasures . Inter relations between other concepts shown in will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a review thereof.

An adaptation of the concepts shown in and how they relate to security risk analysis are represented in which is a block diagram representation of a security decision model.

The users owners threat agents threats risks assets and vulnerabilities in may be substantially the same as similarly labelled components of but are handled differently than in conventional techniques according to embodiments of the invention.

The vulnerability and network inventory database system includes databases which store either information associated with vulnerabilities and assets or information from which vulnerability and asset information may be derived. In the example shown in the database system includes a security knowledge database which stores information associated with known vulnerabilities or security information which is converted or otherwise processed to generate vulnerability information. The network profile database stores network inventory information. Information associated with assets in an information system such as a communication network may be obtained from the network profile database or derived from information which is obtained from the network profile database .

It should be appreciated that a communication network is one example of an information system to which the techniques disclosed herein may be applied. These techniques may be applied to other types of information system.

Various implementations of the database system will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example any of many different types of data storage device such as disk drives and solid state memory devices may be used to store the databases . According to one particular implementation the databases are stored at a computer system which also executes software implementing the security decision model . It should be appreciated however that the database system is intended to more generally represent a system through which vulnerability and asset information or information from which these can be derived is accessible. The databases may thus be remote databases which are made accessible to the model through appropriate interfaces and connections. The databases may reside at a server in a Local Area Network LAN for example in which case information is accessible through a network interface and LAN connections.

In operation the security decision model takes into account assets and vulnerabilities to determine a risk assessment. The risk assessment provides an indication of current network security state to the users owners .

The security decision model may be implemented as shown in which is a block diagram of a security risk exposure management system.

The architecture of the system includes three main elements namely the user interface the security module and the data system . In one embodiment these elements are implemented in a computer system. The user interface might then be provided through a display and input devices such as a keyboard mouse and or a touchscreen the security module could be implemented primarily in software for storage in a memory of the computer system and execution by a processor and the data system could include local stores interfaces to remote stores or some combination thereof.

It should be appreciated that embodiments of the invention may include further fewer or different elements with different interconnections than those explicitly shown in . For example a security risk management system might not include every element shown in . A computer system or other equipment in which the system or another embodiment of the invention is implemented may also include further elements used for other functions. A processor in a computer system would typically execute operating system software in addition to application software implementing security risk management functions for instance. Thus as well as the other drawings are intended solely for illustrative purposes and not to limit the scope of the invention.

The components of the system may be operatively coupled to each other through physical connections or through logical interconnections where any of the components are implemented using software for execution by one or more processing elements.

It will thus be apparent that the components of the system may be implemented using hardware software firmware or combinations thereof. Those skilled in the art will be familiar with devices that may be used in implementing the system including microprocessors microcontrollers Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs and or Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs for example.

In view of the many possible implementations of the components shown in these components are described herein primarily in terms of their function. Based on these functional descriptions a skilled person would be enabled to implement embodiments of the invention in any of various ways.

The data system however would generally be provided as data stores in a hardware component specifically one or more memory devices. Solid state memory devices are common in some types of system although the system may also or instead include memory devices for use with movable or even removable memory media.

The user interface will also generally be provided at least in part by physical devices. In the particular example embodiment shown in the user interface includes a simulation interface a configuration interface a network map and a report interface . These user interface elements interact with the security module to accept user inputs and or to provide outputs to users. A display keyboard mouse and touchscreen represent examples of the types of input and output device through which information may be transferred between users and the security module . These elements may also have associated software components for execution by a processor to process and transfer input and output information.

The simulation interface the configuration interface the network map and the report interface are operatively coupled to the security module . The form of connections through which these elements interact is dependent upon the particular type of equipment in which the system is implemented. Internal bus structures for example are often used in computer systems and thus interactions between the user interface and its components with the security module as well as the data system may be enabled through internal connections drivers and interfaces between a processor and various input output devices. However other types of connection may be used.

The security module includes an event manager which is operatively coupled to the simulation interface to the configuration interface to one or more external systems and to the data system a network model manager which is operatively coupled to the network map to the event manager and to the data system a risk analyzer which is operatively coupled to the configuration interface to the network model manager and to the data system and a report manager which is operatively coupled to the risk analyzer to the report interface and to the data system . These components of the security module like those of the user interface may be implemented in hardware software for execution by a processor or some combination thereof.

The data system includes a vulnerability database which is operatively coupled to the event manager and to the risk analyzer an asset database which is operatively coupled to the event manager to the network model manager and to the risk analyzer a security state database which is operatively coupled to the risk analyzer and to the report manager and a user interface database which is operatively coupled to the user interface . These databases may be stored in any of various types of storage device such as solid state memory devices disk drives and other types of storage device which use fixed movable or possibly removable storage media. The data system may include either data stores or interfaces through which remote data stores are accessible as noted above in conjunction with . Although shown separately in multiple databases may be stored in one data store or memory device.

The vulnerability database stores information associated with vulnerabilities and the asset database stores information associated with assets. These databases represent examples of the databases . Data structures which may be stored in the databases are described below.

The security state database stores information associated with historical and or current security risk status of an information system. Information associated with the user interface such as different network views and placement of icons which have been configured by a user is stored in the user interface database .

Initial configuration of the system for operation may involve storing vulnerability information and asset information in the databases . Vulnerability and asset information may be manually entered by network operator personnel for example and or imported from an existing data store or other source. The databases may be populated through the event manager as described below or possibly a further interface not shown through which the databases are accessible.

The event manager processes incoming events such as initial network and vulnerability configuration information introduction of a new vulnerability or a change in the network topology or configuration. Information may be received by the event manager from the simulation interface the configuration interface or one or more external systems such as a Network Management System NMS of a communication network.

A data Application Programming Interface API represents another example of a mechanism through which the event manager and or other components of the system may exchange information with external systems generally shown at . Sources of such information as regulatory requirements network policies firewall rules routing tables encryption keys or other communication security information and service models for instance may use a defined data API to transfer information to the system .

Through the simulation interface a user may make trial or temporary changes in a network. This allows users to investigate the effects of changes countermeasures for instance before these changes are actually made in the network. A simulation event from the simulation interface is preferably handled in a different manner than changes or updates received from other sources so that temporary simulation changes do not affect vulnerabilities and assets which reflect actual network conditions. This may be accomplished for example by providing separate simulation databases to which temporary changes are applied. Simulation databases could be stored until explicitly deleted or cleared by a user depending upon the amount of storage space available in the data system or automatically deleted when a user closes or exits the simulation interface .

Information received by the event manager from the configuration interface or external system s which affects actual vulnerabilities or network assets may be processed and written to the databases . The nature of the processing performed by the event manager may be dependent on the type format and or source of the information for instance.

Information entered through the configuration interface may already be formatted according to data structures used to store information in the databases and can be written to the databases without significant processing. In the case of information received from external systems however processing such as format and or content conversions may be performed by the event manager . For example e mail updates including advisories of new vulnerabilities discovered by vendors of software used in a network may be received and processed by the event manager or another component and used to update the vulnerability database . Network equipment or configuration updates received from an NMS might involve an intermediate level of processing generally less processing than information from other external systems but possibly more processing than information from the internal configuration interface .

The event manager may thus receive information associated with vulnerabilities and assets and update current vulnerabilities and assets or more specifically information in the databases based on the received information.

The network model manager captures a representation of the network being analyzed from the event manager the asset database or both to present the network map to a user. Assets and their relationships as specified in the asset database are used by the network model manager to build a model of the network. Services may be handled in a substantially similar manner by creating and accessing service information and relationships in the asset database or possibly another database. A service like an asset may have relationships with other assets.

Events affecting a current network model may be passed from the event manager to the network model manager or stored in the asset database for access by the network model manager . It should thus be appreciated that the network model manager need not necessarily be physically coupled to the event manager . In some embodiments the simulation interface and the configuration interface may be operatively coupled to the network model manager to apply changes to a model.

The risk analyzer performs risk analysis and calculations. In accordance with an aspect of the invention the risk analyzer determines vulnerabilities affecting assets of a communication network and determines risks to services provided in the communication network by analyzing the vulnerabilities and assets. Information associated with vulnerabilities and services assets is stored in the databases as noted above and accessed by the risk analyzer .

Assets may include either or both of physical assets illustratively equipment in the communication network and logical assets such as software running on equipment in the communication network information stored by equipment in the communication network and services.

Indications of risks determined by the risk analyzer are provided to the network model manager so that a consolidated representation of a service including an indication of the determined risks and relationships between the service and other assets can be provided to a user through the user interface in the form of the network map . The network map may thus include both a representation of network topology and detailed security risk information. Any of many different types and layouts of the network map may be used to present results of a risk analysis. A graphical representation of a network in which assets and risks are shown using icons or images text or some combination thereof may provide a most effective indication of a current security state of the network. In some embodiments the format and layout of the network map is in accordance with previously established user interface settings stored in the user interface database .

The network map may thus display any of multiple views of a system including service and asset interdependencies while concurrently displaying the results of security risk aggregation functions in an intuitive way. Examples of risk aggregation functions are discussed in further detail below. Other functions might also be used to provide security risk and or other types of information to be included in consolidated service level representations. These representations may be displayed in the network map or presented to a user in some other form.

A Security State Visualization SSV tool may be supported by the network map another component of the user interface or by a component of the security module for managing service level map views of an information system. A map view may be presented in a displayed representation in the form of a series of icons and connections showing service and asset interdependence as well as service security risks and possibly security risks to other assets. Indications of service and or asset security risks may be provided as attribute states which are described in further detail below with reference to . In some embodiments the SSV supports functions to customize a color coded representation of security risk attributes associated with a service and or its related assets. The SSV tool may also facilitate the display of groups of assets and or services and the collective state of each group.

The specific information that is provided in a particular view may be controlled through a View Selector Navigator VSN component that may be supported by the network model manager . In this case the VSN is used by the SSV to navigate through various service level views in a similar way that the network model manager is used by the network map to navigate through various network views. The VSN determines the information required for a view based on a service and level to be viewed and the assets that are related to that service which may be selected via the configuration interface and retrieves the information from the asset database and the security state database . Any information available concerning a service and its related assets including specific security risk information determined by the risk analyzer may be retrieved by the VSN. A consolidated representation of a service including security risk and service asset relationship information is generated by the SSV based on the information provided by the VSN. The VSN may also interact with the risk analyzer to obtain the security risk information that is to be presented in a service level view.

The present invention is in no way limited to any particular type of representation or output. For example indications such as alarms or warnings which may be provided locally through the user interface or transmitted to a remote system such as a pager or an e mail client for instance are also contemplated.

The risk analyzer may provide security risk information to either or both of the report manager and the security state database and in some embodiments to other components that generate consolidated representations of services. In the risk analyzer is operatively coupled to both the report manager and the security state database . Outputs from the risk analyzer may instead be provided to the security state database through the report manager . Another possible option would be to operatively couple the risk analyzer and the report manager to the security state database . In this case outputs from the risk analyzer are provided to the security state database and information in the security state database is then accessed by the report manager to provide reports to a user through the report interface .

The report interface may also receive risk report selection inputs from a user for configuring reports of the risks determined by the risk analyzer . Risk report selection inputs may control the content format or both of reports generated by the report manager . Responsive to risk report selection inputs received through the report interface the report manager accesses security risk information in the security state database for instance and generates a customized report for a user.

As noted above any of various configuration tasks may be performed by a user through the configuration interface . A user might enter network configuration information associated with vulnerabilities assets or both for example so as to effectively change the communication network being analyzed. The configuration interface may also be used to enter risk analysis configuration information for configuring an analysis process applied to the vulnerabilities and assets by the risk analyzer . The risk analysis process is adapted in accordance with risk analysis configuration information provided by a user. Risk analysis adaptation may involve selecting specific types of risk calculations or parameters therefor for example.

Embodiments of the invention also provide for selection of particular information system features illustratively services for security risk analysis. For instance a user may be interested in assessing risk for a specific service provided by a communication network.

Once a service has been selected the risk analyzer identifies assets that have a relationship with the selected service and determines vulnerabilities which affect the selected service or the identified assets illustratively by accessing the databases . The risk analyzer then determines risks to the selected service by analyzing the vulnerabilities and assets. An indication of the determined security risks may then be provided through the network model manager the report manager or both.

In one embodiment the risk analyzer is implemented as a Security State Engine SSE which determines security risks to particular assets and also aggregates security risks from multiple contributing assets that are either themselves related to the selected service or related to other assets that are related to the selected service. In order to track Root Cause contributors to a service security risk the SSE maintains a record of contributors such as cause and effect chains for each security risk that is propagated to a service based on asset relationships. Other methods to maintain a list of root cause contributors could also be provided.

Embodiments of the invention have been described above primarily in the context of a system. is a flow diagram illustrating a security risk management method.

The method begins at with an operation of network and or risk configuration. This operation may involve for example any or all of populating or updating vulnerability and or asset information selection of one or more specific features such as a service for security risk analysis and adaptation of a risk analysis process.

Where a specific network service is specified at vulnerabilities affecting the selected service and or any assets that have a relationship with the selected service are determined at and the vulnerabilities and assets are analyzed at to determine risks to the service. Indications of the determined risks and the relationships between the service and assets is provided at in a consolidated representation of the service.

It should be appreciated that the method is intended solely for illustrative purposes and not to limit the scope of the invention. Embodiments of the invention may be implemented with fewer or further operations than those shown in or the illustrated operations may be performed in a different order. For example any or all of the operations in the method might be repeated when network vulnerabilities and or assets are updated or for different simulation scenarios.

Analysis of assets and vulnerabilities by the risk analyzer to determine security risks to a service involves risk exposure calculations that consider relationships between assets which may include other services that are involved in providing the service. Through these relationships the effects of vulnerabilities and risks are propagated to a service from the underlying assets through which the service is provided. Propagation of vulnerabilities allows risk analysis to take into account vulnerabilities which affect not only a particular service but also those which affect other assets that have relationships with the service. A determination of risk for a service may thus be based on both its own vulnerabilities if any and the propagated vulnerabilities which affect assets related to the service. Therefore the effects of vulnerabilities risks or both may be propagated and references herein to propagation of vulnerabilities and risks should be interpreted accordingly.

Embodiments of the invention may allow risk propagation through multiple levels of asset relationships up to a service level. A risk analysis procedure may thus identify not only those assets that have a relationship with a service but also those assets that have relationships with assets that have relationships with the service and so on.

In regard to risk propagation it may be useful to first consider relationships which may exist between types of assets. is a block diagram illustrating types of assets as well as examples of how assets may be related to other assets i.e. inter asset relationships.

As noted above an asset may be a physical or logical component of a communication network. In the system of the personal computer PC and the SPARC workstation are physical assets and the operating systems the Internet WWW server and the database are logical assets.

Relationships between these assets are also shown in . An information system is described by not only assets but also the relationships between them. A relationship describes how assets are interconnected and or their functional dependencies.

In the PC and the workstation have a cabled to relationship indicating that these assets communicate through some sort of communication link such as a physical connection through a communication network. The operating systems are executed by processors at the PC and the workstation and thus have a runs on relationship with the PC and the workstation respectively.

The server and the database are supported by software which is also executed by processors in the PC and the workstation . As this type of software would normally be executed by or within the operating systems the server and the database have a runs on relationship with the operating systems respectively.

Another type of relationship is illustrated in between the server and the database . The server may provide an inventory system which accesses inventory information stored in the database for example. The server or a function it supports is thereby dependent upon and thus has a depends on relationship with the database .

In one embodiment relationships between assets may be represented in a two stage manner. First the relationship itself is represented in terms of its type including cabled to runs on and depends on and the numbers of assets between which the particular relationship may exist. The cabled to relationship in for example is of type cabled to and requires at least two endpoint assets. Security parameters described in further detail below may also be included in the specification of a relationship.

Once a relationship has been defined the assets which are part of a particular relationship are linked to the relationship. For some types of relationship the asset to relationship link may also indicate whether the asset is a from member or a to member of the relationship. The from and to information is used for relationships such as runs on where the from member is the running member and the to member is the member which the running member is being run on. In the operating system is the from member and the PC is the to member of the relationship between the operating system and the PC as indicated by the direction of the arrow between these assets. For a depends on relationship the from member depends on the to member. For types of relationships having equivalent members such as cabled to relationships the from or to value can be assigned not applicable or the like.

The present invention is not restricted to this type of definition of a relationship. The above definition is provided solely as an illustrative example.

Other types of assets and relationships may also exist in a communication network or other system for which risk is to be assessed.

For example in order to present a service level view an additional service to asset relationship is provided beyond the asset to asset relationships shown in . This service to asset relationship is referred to herein as a composed of relationship and is used to define the physical and logical assets that make up a service.

The edge router asset group includes a router operating system OS asset that has a composed of relationship with the service and a runs on relationship with a physical router asset . In one embodiment of the invention both of the assets are considered in a security risk analysis for the service . The asset has a relationship with the service and the asset has a relationship with the asset and thus a security risk to the asset can potentially affect the service .

In the firewall asset group the firewall software asset has a composed of relationship with the service and a runs on relationship with the OS asset which in turn has a runs on relationship with the rack mount PC asset . The rack mount PC asset also has respective cabled to relationships with the router asset and the switch asset . Risks may propagate from the assets in the firewall asset group and similarly from the assets in the edge router asset group to the service through each group s composed of relationship with the service and or through the other group s composed of relationship with the service where risks are propagated across the cabled to relationship between the assets .

The enterprise switch asset group is somewhat of a special case in that none of its assets have a composed of relationship with the service . The switch asset group is important because it is the only way that the web server asset group can communicate with the database server asset group . The service thus indirectly depends on the switch asset group even though the switch asset group does not include assets in the composed of list or any of the depends on relationships shown in . In general for a complex information system it would be virtually impossible to detect the particular switch router hub through which such an indirect dependency may exist as noted in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 232 004 referenced above for example.

The switch software asset has a runs on relationship with the physical switch asset which has cabled to relationships with the assets in the asset groups . Since the asset groups include assets that have composed of relationships with the service the assets may be included in a security risk analysis for the service .

Asset relationships may similarly allow risks to propagate from the database server asset group to the service . The database asset has a depends on relationship with the server asset which has a composed of relationship with the service . The database asset also has a runs on relationship with the OS asset which has a runs on relationship with the SPARC server asset . The SPARC server asset has a cabled to relationship with the switch asset which has cabled to relationships with the assets through which risks may be propagated back to the service through other relationship paths.

As will be apparent from the foregoing risks may propagate from the assets in the web server asset group to the service through the server asset which has a composed of relationship with the service and or through the composed of relationships between the service and assets . The server asset has a depends on relationship with the database asset in the database server asset group and a runs on relationship with the OS asset which has a runs on relationship with the physical standalone PC asset . The PC asset has a cabled to relationship with the switch asset .

The composed of relationships may be configured and modelled in a substantially similar manner as the cabled to runs on and depends on relationships. In some embodiments asset groups are also modelled.

The present invention is in no way limited to the particular asset and relationship examples of . For example these Figures show only one to one relationships for software application assets on operating system and hardware assets. This is only for the purposes of illustration. Each operating system or hardware asset may have multiple related software applications and accordingly a risk to one application may affect another application. It is not uncommon especially for small companies to provide a web server and an e mail server on the same platform for instance. This means that a vulnerability of the web server may affect the e mail server as well.

It should also be appreciated that some information systems may include inter services compositions. This enables multiple levels of services to be defined and combined into a higher level services representation. Services that are composed of other services are described in further detail below with reference to .

It is also possible for multiple physical assets to be in the same asset group. This is useful for such purposes as load balancing where there is a pool of units and each of the units can perform all of the functions. A risk calculation can take into account that some minimum number of units is needed for normal operation.

The service asset and inter asset relationships shown in are also not intended to limit the present invention in any way. Relationships between asset groups and other asset groups or between asset groups and services or other types of asset are also contemplated.

Although described briefly above service level risk analysis can now be considered in further detail with reference to . The various relationships between a service and assets and possibly relationships between those assets and other assets may be used by a risk analyzer or SSE to identify one or more assets of an information system that have respective relationships with the service.

According to one embodiment when a security risk analysis is to be performed for the service responsive to a user selection of the service through the configuration interface for instance the risk analyzer obtains information for the service from the asset database . This information may include information on the service itself as well as information specifying at least the composed of relationships associated with the service from which the assets can be identified.

The risk analyzer then determines one or more security risks to the service by analyzing security vulnerabilities associated with the identified assets . This determination may take into account not only the particular assets that have respective relationships with the service but also other assets that have respective relationships with those particular assets. Risks may propagate to the service from assets that might not themselves have a composed of relationship with the service as described above. Any or all of the assets shown in may thus be identified by the risk analyzer based on relationship information stored in the asset database .

The determination of security risks may involve aggregating security risks from multiple assets. Security risks associated with the assets in an asset group for instance may be aggregated into an aggregated group security risk. Asset or aggregate security risks between asset groups may also be aggregated depending on relationships. In for example aggregated risks may be determined for each of the asset groups and further aggregated to determine a security risk to the service . In this sense risk aggregation can be considered a form of risk propagation. Examples of aggregation functions are described in further detail below although other aggregation functions than those explicitly described herein may be used for this purpose.

Aggregated security risks provide an indication of overall security risk to an asset such as a service that has relationships with other assets. However it may also be desirable to have knowledge of specific contributors to an aggregated risk so as to facilitate root cause analysis or investigation of possible remedial actions for example. To this end the risk analyzer may also maintain a record of any or all contributing assets where security risks to multiple contributing assets are aggregated to determine an aggregated security risk. Contributing assets could be tracked to virtually any level of detail although assets that contribute most significantly to an aggregated security risk might generally be of the most interest.

For example the risk analyzer could store an identifier of the contributing asset associated with the highest security risk value that was combined with other security risk values to determine an aggregated security risk. In some embodiments this type of record is kept for each aggregated security risk. With reference to respective records of one or more contributing assets could be kept for each aggregated risk calculated for the asset groups and also for the overall aggregated security risks determined for the service .

After the risk analysis has been completed a consolidated representation of the service is provided through an interface that is operatively coupled to the risk analyzer . As described above the network model manager and the network map the report manager and the report interface and an SSV and a VSN are illustrative example embodiments of this interface. The consolidated representation includes an indication of the determined security risk s and an indication of the respective relationships between the service and each of the identified assets. Examples of consolidated representations are described in further detail below with reference to .

It should be appreciated that the interface through which the consolidated representation is provided could be operatively coupled to the risk analyzer in any of various ways. In the case of the report manager and the report interface information associated with the determined security risks s might be received by the report manager from the risk analyzer . An SSV VSN implementation may instead retrieve security risk information from the security state database and thereby be indirectly logically coupled to the risk analyzer .

These two schemes for obtaining security risk information including real time generation by the risk analyzer and a store access mechanism whereby the risk analyzer stores security risk information in the security state database for subsequent access also illustrate that security risk information may be presented when it is generated or at some later time. For example a user might request that a risk analysis be performed by the risk analyzer and view the results of that analysis when the analysis has been completed. In some cases a risk analysis for a selected service might already have been completed by the risk analyzer . The risk analyzer could update the security state database every time a relevant event is received by the event manager for example. In this case security risk information that was previously generated can then be obtained from the security state database instead of running the risk analyzer every time a user wishes to display a service level view. A consolidated representation of a service thus need not necessarily be displayed upon completion of a risk analysis for that service.

It is also possible that a security risk assessment or management tool may support both real time risk analysis and store access schemes. This would allow such functionality as invoking a risk analysis procedure when a user wishes to display a service level view of a service for which a risk analysis has not previously been completed but obtaining security risk information for a service from the security state database when such information is available and current for example.

The consolidated representation includes an element that indicates the layer or level of the current view. In this example an entire communication network is shown in the representation .

Some of the services at the level being viewed in represent groups of lower level assets that have additional dependent relationships with other assets at the lower level s . A cabled to relationship between lower level assets of the consumer network service and the access network service is shown at . Other cabled to relationships are similarly shown between the video services offering and the regional transport network service and between the video services offering and the access network service. The cabled to and composed of relationships are shown in different ways in this example using different symbols on the links representing the relationships. Any other dependent relationships such as runs on and depends on relationships may also be displayed.

Indicators of security risk to each service are shown in at one side of the service icons. The indicators provide an indication of security risks to the consumer network service in terms of a confidentiality risk C an integrity risk I an availability risk A and an overall security state of the service shown as a magnitude M . These indicators are described in further detail below with reference to .

Additional information may also be presented in a consolidated service view. The entire network view shown in includes a national distribution service and a super head end service which are modelled at the same hierarchical network level as the other services but do not have relationships with those services.

Another aspect of the invention allows a user to navigate down into lower layer views. This function may be provided by an SSV and VSN for example. is a block diagram of another GUI providing a representation of a lower level service view. The lower level view of may be accessed for example by double clicking on an asset icon in the next higher level view to reveal the lower level details single clicking on an asset name in the tree directory etc.

Like the window of the example display window shown in includes a directory tree of modelled assets in an information system and a consolidated representation of a service. The representation however is at a different layer or level than the representation . As shown at the representation shows an ADSL consumer service that is part of the consumer network service of the network. The window also includes minimize maximize and close buttons menu items pointer grasp and zoom buttons and a pulldown menu for selecting a custom zoom factor.

Indications of security risks to assets and services that make up the ADSL consumer service are also provided. Assets are shown as icons such as relationships are shown as links such as and security risks are shown using C I A and M indicators such as .

The consolidated representations thereby provide an indication of security risks to a service in different levels of detail as well as indications of at least some of the relationships through which a service can be affected by security risks to related assets. These related assets may include other services.

The particular risks and relationships shown in a view may depend on the level of the view. In the security risks displayed at for the consumer network service are aggregated risks whereas in security risks that may affect the consumer network service are displayed in the form of risks to the underlying assets involved in providing the consumer network service. Some of the risks and relationships within the ADSL consumer service represented in are internal to the consumer network service and thus have not been shown in the top level view of the consumer network service in . The cabled to relationship with the access network service and the composed of relationship with the video head office service however are shown in both and .

For further clarification of the representations in the consumer network service shown at is a service that has relationships composed of relationships in this case with two other services. As shown at the consumer network service is composed of an ADSL consumer service and a VDSL consumer service. The ADSL consumer service is in turn provided by the underlying assets shown at and in the representation of . The assets included in the representation have either composed of relationships with the ADSL consumer service or some other types of relationships with the composed of assets.

The indicators and also the indicators described in further detail below highlight the ability to concurrently display an overall security state M as well as C I A sub states that comprise the overall state. In order to avoid overly complicating the present description only one of the two sets of indicators and is explicitly described below. It should be appreciated that risk information for the other set of indicators can be determined and displayed in a substantially similar manner.

All of the security states corresponding to the indicators are determined during risk analysis. Although the example icon includes indicators of three key attributes namely confidentiality integrity and availability other embodiments could include additional or different attributes such as Quality of Service QoS Bandwidth and or other network or security parameters.

The states represented by the indicators for a service may be calculated from the key attribute values contributed by dependent composed of assets. In addition the overall security state of the service displayed in the icon by the M indicator may be calculated based on the service key attributes and or the overall security states of composed of assets.

Security risk state indicators may have different display characteristics illustratively different colors to convey potential security problems. The color or another display characteristic of the symbol might also be used to indicate potential problems. The color of the symbol might be matched to the color code of the magnitude attribute indicator for example. Another option might be to display the icon symbol in a trouble or alert color where any of the indicators indicate a certain level or value of security risk. The indicator and or symbol color code may be configurable through a menu or other user interface or embodied as a hard coded value for instance.

In some embodiments the icon displays different types of risk to a service or asset. A risk arising from a vulnerability to an asset that has a composed of relationship with a service might be represented in a different manner than a risk that arises from a vulnerability to an asset that does not itself have a composed of relationship with the service. Considering the asset groups of for example even though the assets of these asset groups do not have composed of relationships with the service vulnerabilities affecting these assets can cause risks to the service . Risks caused by vulnerabilities that affect a service through this type of multiple level relationship path could be shown differently than risks that affect a service through a single composed of relationship.

The different types of risk may be represented using the respective sets of indicators and in . Risks that affect composed of assets of a service might be represented by the indicators on one side of the asset symbol with other risks being represented by the indicators on the opposite side of the asset symbol. Other layouts and mechanisms for representing different types of risks are also possible.

As described above it may be desirable to investigate the series of relationships through which a security risk propagated to a service or asset. In accordance with an aspect of the invention a record of one or more contributing assets is maintained when risks to multiple assets are aggregated. Such a record might be made accessible through the icon symbol name or the indicators and for example in which case the indicators not only indicate security states but are also functional graphical elements. In one embodiment a popup menu displayed when one of the indicators is right clicked allows a user to view contributors to that risk. Contributors could be displayed in a list highlighted in a representation of a service or presented to a user in some other form. The user can then determine in an information system the origin of a security risk.

Other trace mechanisms are also contemplated. A user might select an asset to display a menu for accessing information which may include for example a list of services that may be affected by risks to the asset. A function to trace effects in the opposite direction to list the other assets that may potentially affect an asset is also provided in some embodiments. Security risks that may be propagated through a particular relationship might similarly be displayed by selecting that relationship.

The above examples of security risk display functions are by no means exhaustive. Further functions may be or become apparent to those skilled in the art.

As described briefly above relationships between assets may be used in a security risk analysis system or method to propagate security risks between related assets. Risk propagation including risk aggregation functions are now described in further detail.

The type of propagation between assets may be dependent upon the relationship between those assets. For example a depends on relationship between assets might indicate that one asset s availability depends on another asset s availability but in the case of a cabled to relationship this might not be so. In the latter case just because one asset is made unavailable does not necessarily mean that the other asset is unavailable. One example of this scenario would be two PCs connected to a network.

The risk analyzer for example may determine a vulnerability affecting an asset associated with a communication network and propagate the effect s of the vulnerability from the asset to another asset which has a relationship with the asset. This propagation and propagation in the reverse direction may be applied between an asset and each other asset having a relationship with that asset.

A risk analyzer may also determine a security risk to the asset and or to the network its services and other network features based on the vulnerabilities affecting the asset and the vulnerabilities propagated to the asset from the other assets.

The calculators may be implemented for example in software which is executed by a processor although hardware based embodiments and embodiments in which calculation functions are implemented using some combination of hardware and software are also contemplated.

The risk calculator uses exposure and asset information to calculate a security risk to an asset network service or some other selected network feature. Exposure is a mapping between a given asset and the vulnerabilities which affect the asset. As noted above a vulnerability is a condition in an asset s operation which makes it susceptible to an attack or failure. Other information such as a threat value may also be used by the risk calculator in calculating risk. A threat value which may be entered for an asset by a user for instance is an indication that an asset may be harmed. For example a PC which is not connected to a network and is in a highly guarded room might be tagged with a lower threat value than network connected PCs even if there were several vulnerabilities in the software running on it.

An output of the risk calculator is preferably multi dimensional in nature. As network complexity increases with devices providing respective specific services determined risk preferably reflects multiple facets or parameters of security such as Confidentiality Integrity and Availability C I A .

The security dimension s included in an output provided by the risk calculator may be predetermined or configured by a user owner through the configuration interface for example. A user owner might wish to evaluate security risk to a service which affects the service s availability. In this case risk calculator provides an output indicating the security risk to availability of the selected service.

Security dimension information may be provided in numeric format as a number between 0 and 1 inclusive indicating the level of importance or relevance of a security dimension to an asset service or other network feature. A triplet 1 0 0 for example may be used to indicate a confidentiality risk or as described below that an asset has value for providing confidentiality in the network. It should be appreciated however that other indications may be used for security dimensions such as indications of severity or importance of a risk vulnerability or asset with respect to each security dimension. The triplet 0.75 0.50 0.25 for instance provides an indication that the C I A parameters have different levels of importance.

In the system exposure may be calculated by the total exposure calculator as a function of either or both of direct exposure and indirect exposure. Direct exposure is determined by the direct exposure calculator based on vulnerabilities which directly affect an asset. The indirect exposure calculator calculates a different type of exposure indirect exposure which propagates to an asset from related assets. For example the effects of vulnerabilities associated with an operating system can propagate to any of its applications. In the effects of vulnerabilities affecting the operating systems can propagate to the server and the database respectively. The indirect exposure calculator uses information on relationships assets and reachability in its determination of indirect exposure to risks.

Reachability is determined by the reachability calculator based on relationship and asset information. The reachability calculator implements a function to calculate the exposure of a path between assets in the network. For example the server in relies on physical connectivity between itself and the database through the PC and the workstation . The exposure to this connectivity is referred to herein primarily as reachability .

The calculators in the system may access the databases to obtain information on vulnerabilities and assets and or obtain information output from other calculators for use in further calculations as in the case of the risk calculator and the total exposure calculator . This set of calculators can be flexibly applied to risk calculations. Different user owners or missions business government military and public for instance may have different requirements or risk assessment scenarios.

The risk calculator for example which is operatively coupled to the direct and indirect exposure calculators through the total exposure calculator may thus determine a security risk based on exposures determined by particular calculators selected for a current risk analysis operation. For example a user might select a direct exposure analysis in which case the direct exposure calculator is selected.

Selection of calculators for a security risk analysis operation may be effected by explicitly selecting particular calculators or particular types of exposure to be analyzed for instance such as by entering risk analysis configuration information through a user interface. Calculator selection may also or instead be inherent in a type of risk analysis being performed. In one example a network wide risk assessment automatically causes all exposure calculators to be selected whereas more targeted risk assessments may cause respective subsets of calculators to be selected. Other selection mechanisms are also contemplated and may be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The effects of selection of a calculator may also be implementation dependent. In some embodiments a calculator is operative to calculate its corresponding type of exposure only if it is selected for a current risk analysis operation. Another possible implementation may have calculators which determine their corresponding types of exposure during every risk analysis operation with another component the total exposure calculator for example selecting one or more of the different types of exposure to include in total exposure calculations.

It should be appreciated that not every calculator need necessarily be selectable. A default or base calculator illustratively the direct exposure calculator might always be automatically selected and used in every risk analysis operation. In this case the indirect exposure calculator may be selectable to provide for flexibility in risk analysis.

Additional behavior based components may also be combined with these calculators in a risk calculation system. A traversal agent or function for example may be used to determine the optimal order in which to process assets associated with a network during risk assessment.

According to one possible risk assessment scheme each asset is processed sequentially with no regard for topology. In other schemes assets might be processed in an order which is based on a more sophisticated algorithm which sequentially select assets based on for example asset relationships and asset paths and or attack paths. Risk propagation characteristics might also or instead be taken into account in determining a traversal order. A risk propagation characteristic could be used to restrict risk propagation to a maximum of two relationships for instance. In this case assets which are more than two relationships away from an asset will see no effect of risk to that asset. The particular traversal order algorithm used during an analysis operation may be predetermined or selectable or otherwise configurable by a user.

Another possible behavioral component is an asset vulnerability builder which builds associations between vulnerabilities and assets. This component with which the exposure calculators may interact to determine direct and indirect exposures maps vulnerabilities to assets which they affect. Co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 366 100 referenced above describes techniques that may be used in some embodiments to associate security vulnerabilities and assets.

The direct exposure calculator calculates direct risk based on these mappings. Through relationships the indirect exposure calculator can determine which vulnerabilities mapped to an asset by the asset vulnerability builder propagate to other assets.

In some embodiments the exposure calculators themselves map vulnerabilities to assets instead of using a separate asset vulnerability builder.

Asset to vulnerability mapping builds associations between assets of a network and known vulnerabilities. The asset and vulnerability databases store asset and vulnerability information which is accessed and processed to build these associations.

The mapping process may involve for a specific asset comparing asset information against an exploited resource. A resource may be a particular platform identified in the asset and vulnerability databases by a name and version number. Other asset and vulnerability information may also be processed during asset to vulnerability matching. A platform vulnerability as well as other types of vulnerabilities may have other requirements such as a particular access mechanism which must be used to exploit the vulnerability. In this case access mechanisms for the asset are compared to access mechanisms required by the vulnerability.

If the asset information matches the vulnerability information then an association is created between the vulnerability and the asset. In the above example an association would be created in the event of a match between asset and vulnerability platform names platform versions and access mechanisms. An association between an asset and a vulnerability may be created for example by storing an identifier of an affected asset with a vulnerability in the vulnerability database storing an identifier of the vulnerability with the affected asset in the asset database or storing identifiers of the affected asset and the vulnerability in a separate asset vulnerability table.

Asset relationships may be searched to determine whether each asset has a relationship with an asset that is directly affected by a vulnerability. An association may be made between the vulnerability and each asset that has a relationship with the directly affected asset. The depth and type of the relationship search may be user specified for example.

The above operations may be repeated for all vulnerabilities in the vulnerability database and for all assets in the asset database .

The specific functions used by a risk analyzer or SSE to calculate total exposure or aggregated risks which could include aggregated C I A attributes aggregated magnitude and or other aggregated risks may be hard coded or configurable such as by selecting from a list of available functions presented in a menu. A menu option could allow selection from the set of aggregation functions available in a risk analysis system for instance.

The set of aggregation functions may include any functional relationship between the security risks or particular key attributes of contributing assets or between the aggregated key attributes resulting in an overall magnitude. Aggregation of key attributes into an overall magnitude may involve for example a maximum function a minimum function a sum function a weighted sum or other functions such as those described in detail below. The overall magnitude may instead take into account only certain key attributes of an asset or service. Where a service is important for integrity for instance the function for determining the overall security state for that service might be more highly weighted towards the integrity attribute than the confidentiality and availability attributes.

Considering examples of aggregation functions that may be used in some embodiments the risk to an asset Risk may depend on a value of the asset Value and the probability that a weakness has been exploited against the asset Likelihood . Suppose that an asset A is affected by k vulnerabilities V. . . V. Typically the risk associated to this single asset is defined as follows Risk Value Likelihood 1 Likelihood Threat maximumVulnerability 1 . 2 

Here Valuerefers to the amount of loss or damage associated with the compromise of asset A. The likelihood equation 2 relies on a given hypothesis which assumes that for each vulnerability Vthat affects this asset there must be an exploited by relationship either direct or indirect between Vand this asset.

As indicated above 1 and 2 are appropriate for a single asset. Suppose now that a service S depends on k assets A. . . A. If all assets A. . . Ahave to be free of compromise where compromise would result in loss or partial loss of Confidentiality Integrity Availability or some other system or security parameter at the asset the risk associated with the respective service may be calculated as follows Risk Value maximumLikelihood 1 . 3 

Likelihood A defines the probability that a vulnerability has been exploited against an asset A. Equation 3 relies on a given hypothesis which assumes that if Likelihood A 

If not all of the assets A. . . Awould have to be free of compromise where redundant servers or databases are provided for resilience purposes for instance the risk to the service may be calculated according to Risk Value minimum Likelihood 1 . 4 

A cabled to relationship may represent for example an underlying network offering a network service. Therefore if an asset a such as the server of depends on an asset b namely the database there is an underlying assumption that the asset a can have access to asset b through an interconnecting network C represented by a path of cabled to relationships. In such a case the asset a depends on asset b and the interconnecting network C. Although the risk to asset a may be given by 1 the likelihood associated to network C might be evaluated using different techniques. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 232 004 referenced above discloses techniques that may be used for evaluating risks where a path between two dependent assets includes multiple cabled to relationships. Other techniques may also be used for this purpose.

Risk analysis and aggregation functions in accordance with embodiments of the invention are dependent upon security vulnerabilities that affect assets as well as relationships between information system assets. The process of determining vulnerabilities that affect assets may be facilitated by particular data structures used to store vulnerability and asset data. are block diagrams of vulnerability and asset data structures respectively. Vulnerability and asset databases may include multiple records having the structures shown in .

As shown in a vulnerability data structure used to store vulnerability information in a vulnerability database may include a vulnerability identifier and a vulnerability definition . The identifier identifies a vulnerability illustratively by name and the vulnerability definition may include for example platform identifiers that identify hardware or software platforms that may be exploited or affected by the vulnerability. Platforms may be identified by name and version number for instance. The definition may provide further vulnerability information such as its effect illustratively as a numeric triplet in terms of the above C I A security dimensions conditions such as an access mechanism which are required for the vulnerability to be exploited etc. This information might be specified for example according to Application Vulnerability Definition Language AVDL Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures CVE and or Common Vulnerability Scoring System CVSS . Further vulnerability information options are also possible and may be or become apparent to those skilled in the art.

A vulnerability data structure might also include some form of indication of vulnerability asset associations. An asset identifier and type of association s may be added to a vulnerability data structure for instance when an asset is identified as being exploited by or affected by a vulnerability.

The asset data structure of includes an asset identifier an asset type an asset value and an asset profile . The identifier uniquely identifies the asset using a user defined name for instance. The asset type field may indicate the type of asset as a physical or logical asset as described above and or provide more detail as to the nature of the asset such as any service or mission to which the asset is critical or important. The asset value indicates one or more values of the asset such as a value in terms of C I A security dimension and or a dollar value.

The asset profile includes information used in mapping vulnerabilities to assets. Where an operating system vulnerability is identified in the data structure by its name and version for example the asset profile of a PC may identify the name and version of the PC s operating system and the vulnerability may thereby be mapped to the assets it exploits and affects by matching information in a vulnerability definition with asset profiles. Access mechanisms which are available for accessing an asset may also be indicated in the asset profile for use in mapping vulnerabilities requiring particular access mechanisms to assets.

It should also be appreciated that assets and vulnerabilities may be matched in the opposite direction in that information associated with an asset may be used to identify vulnerabilities which affect that asset.

Vulnerabilities and assets which are to be included in a risk assessment may similarly be identified by a risk analyzer by accessing information in the data structures . With reference to suppose a user owner selects through the configuration interface a confidentiality C risk assessment. In this case the risk analyzer accesses the databases to identify vulnerabilities which affect confidentiality and possibly assets which are valuable for maintaining confidentiality in the network.

Information associated with relationships between an asset and other assets may also be included in the asset profile in the form of a type of relationship and an asset identifier for each relationship.

Relationships may instead be indicated in separate data structures. Such a data structure might include an indication of a type of relationship and the endpoints or assets that share the relationship. Using such a data structure assets that have relationships with a service and with other assets can be identified.

As noted above the asset type field may identify a service to which an asset is important. In another embodiment services are separately specified in a data structure substantially similar to the data structure . In this case service asset relationships may be defined in the either or both of the service and asset data structures or in distinct relationship data structures.

The identifier identifies a service or some other asset of an information system in terms of a user defined name for instance. The fields store security state information preferably including exposure and risk values calculated by the calculators . Any or all of these values may be expressed as values of the above C I A security dimensions.

It should be appreciated that the fields may also store other exposure or risk information such as an identifier of another asset a relationship type and a propagated vulnerability in the case of the indirect exposure information for example.

Other variations of the data structure include providing multiple exposure fields for direct and indirect exposures of an asset or feature. A separate field might be provided for each vulnerability which directly or indirectly affects an asset for example. Tracking of contributing assets where security risk exposure information includes aggregated values may also be supported by including one or more contributing asset identifier fields for each aggregated value.

The data structure may be used for storage of data in the security state database for example. In another embodiment exposure and risk information is added to asset records in an asset database in which case any or all of the exposure and risk fields may be included in the asset data structure possibly as part of the asset profile .

The data structures are illustrative examples of data structures which may be used to store vulnerability asset and security state information. Different data structures including additional or different information may be used in other embodiments.

The method begins at with an operation of determining assets and vulnerabilities by an asset vulnerability builder as described above for instance to generate assets vulnerability associations. This determination may involve simply retrieving stored asset and vulnerability information or in some embodiments processing information to calculate asset and vulnerability information which is then compared to map or associate assets and vulnerabilities.

At the traversal order for processing assets is determined. Direct exposures of the assets in the traversal order are then determined at using the asset vulnerability associations.

Direct exposure may be determined at in C I A terms. In this case each vulnerability has a C I A value which represents the effect that the vulnerability would have on an asset. A rule set is used in some embodiments to determine how final direct exposure values are calculated. For example direct exposure for an asset could be generated using the sum of the C I A values of all of the vulnerabilities which directly affect as indicated in the asset vulnerability associations determined at . Other possible direct exposure calculation rules may specify that a maximum value of the vulnerabilities or a maximum value of each security dimension is to be chosen as a final direct exposure value. The rule or rules used for direct exposure calculation may be predetermined or user selected. The C I A terms are combined into an overall magnitude M in some embodiments.

It should be appreciated that further options are also possible for determining final direct exposures. For example a direct exposure calculator may take additional information into account such as a user entered or otherwise provided indication of attacker expertise.

Total exposure is determined at although in this case only direct exposure has been determined at and thus total exposure is the same as the direct exposure.

The operations at through may initialize software based calculators and data specifically direct and total exposure for all assets to be used in subsequent risk analysis. However it should be appreciated that a user owner may configure a risk analysis system such that only direct vulnerabilities are analyzed. In this case direct exposure may be determined at for all assets or for only certain assets which are associated with a particular service mission and or security dimension. The determination of total exposure at may still be performed in this case even though total exposure would be the same as direct exposure. This may be important for example in a software based system in which a risk calculator is configured to determine a security risk based on a total exposure variable.

The method then transitions into an indirect exposure phase if risk analysis is to take indirect exposures into account and continues at with an operation of determining reachability for assets. In the case of a service security risk analysis indirect exposure may be of primary importance.

As described above assets may have relationships such as depends on relationships between them. For example a web server A might depend on a database server B. In this case A s functionality relies on B functioning correctly and being reachable through the network. To determine reachability other assets in the network as well as cabled to and runs on relationships between A and B are taken into account. For services composed of relationships are also considered.

The exposure of the path between these assets is determined illustratively using some form of a Dijkstra algorithm an Open Shortest Path First OSPF algorithm an algorithm based on the cut set techniques disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 232 004 referenced above or some other algorithm accounting for relationships. Exposures for each of the assets in the path between two endpoint assets are also determined. The output of this algorithm is a reachability value shown in as a reachability table which contains that total exposure for each connected pair of assets.

An asset is selected at in the traversal order determined at or possibly in a different order and its indirect exposure is determined at based on its reachability and relationships.

Indirect exposure represents exposure of an asset to risks or vulnerabilities of other assets through its relationships. The determination of indirect exposure may involve traversing an entire list of relationships associated with the asset and evaluating whether each of those relationships have been fulfilled that is associated with one or more other assets.

When one asset depends on another it also implies that the depended on asset is reachable through the network. A risk to the reachability of each asset may thus be factored into the indirect exposure calculation.

A rule set may be used to determine the how indirect exposure values are calculated based on asset types and relationships. For example an operating system asset might treat a depends on relationship differently than a router asset would.

For each relationship evaluation there may be several attributes to take into account including the types of the assets at the endpoints of the relationship the direct exposure values of those assets a scaling factor associated with the relationship and the exposure value for the path between those assets.

The reachability exposure of the endpoints of the relationship may be evaluated using the reachability table described above. This represents the exposure value for the path between the assets.

Using the parameters contained in the indirect exposure rule set an evaluation of the exposure from each relationship is calculated. For example the path exposure and the endpoint exposure could be combined and then multiplied by the relationship scaling factor to determine the indirect exposure for a single relationship. These operations are repeated for each relationship associated with the asset.

Once all relationship exposures have been determined indirect exposure is determined based on the relationship exposures. For example the relationship exposures could be summed or a maximum or minimum relationship exposure or a maximum or minimum of each security dimension could be selected to determine the final indirect exposure. Other algorithms such as the cut set techniques referenced above may also or instead be used to determine indirect exposure.

Total exposure for the asset including its direct exposure as determined at and its indirect exposure as determined at is determined at . As for the direct and indirect exposures described above a rule set may be used to define how total exposure is determined. For example a rule set might specify that 75 of total exposure is to come from direct exposure and 25 is to come from indirect exposure. Total exposure might also or instead be calculated as a maximum function where all dependent assets are required a minimum function where any one of the dependent assets is required or a combination of maximum and minimum functions based on the nature of the dependencies as described above. For example supposing a service level asset is composed of assets A B C D and E with dependencies based on the requirement that assets A and B and C and D or E be secure then the total exposure may be calculated as 

The total exposure calculation might also or instead vary depending on the type of asset to which it is being applied to provide different total exposure calculation schemes for an operating system and a hardware platform for instance.

As the total exposure of other assets with relationships to an asset may affect its reachability the reachability of the asset may again be determined at to update the asset reachability table. For example a PC which connects to a network through a router may have a high exposure to the router s availability. Thus the PC could be less reachable depending on the total exposure of the router.

As shown at the operations at through are repeated for all assets to be analyzed. This may include all assets when a comprehensive network analysis is being performed or only certain assets when a more targeted analysis for particular assets or groups of assets or a particular service mission or security dimension for instance is being conducted.

In some embodiments steps are iterated until either exposure calculations converge as shown at or some predetermined number of iterations have been completed.

An estimate of security risk is then determined at using the total exposure and an indication of security risk is provided.

The steps of the method in are provided for illustrative purposes only and should not be considered to limit implementation of embodiments of the invention to these specific steps. For example in some embodiments steps may be combined into fewer steps for optimization of the method.

Risk calculation like exposure calculation may be controlled by a rule set. A relatively simple risk calculator might implement a multiplication rule in which exposure and asset values are multiplied. Where C I A values are used this type of scheme effectively accounts for differences in asset and exposure security parameters. For example an exposure value of 1 0 0 generates a risk value of 1 0 0 only if the asset value also has a confidentiality parameter of 1. Thus a confidentiality exposure results in a confidentiality risk only if an asset has value for the purposes of confidentiality. A confidentiality exposure would not result in any risk to an asset which has value only for integrity and or availability.

A determination of risk may also involve processing further information such as a user entered threat value. In the case of a multiply risk calculation rule a threat value might scale the product of exposure and asset values.

The server computer and the database server computer are examples of the PC and workstation shown in . These computers along with their operating systems and server and database application software cooperate to provide a database access service such as an inventory service.

The types of equipment which might be implemented as the routers switches the server computers and the management systems as well as other equipment which may be provided in the communication network will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The present invention is in no way restricted to any specific types of equipment or other communication network assets. Although not explicitly shown in other assets associated with the communication network including buildings in which communication equipment or other assets are housed may also be included in a communication network risk analysis model.

The security risk assessment techniques as disclosed herein would be useful in the network management system for assessing risks to assets in the communication network . The service management system is an example of another type of system in which embodiments of the invention may be useful to manage risks to the server computers and other assets which are involved in providing a service.

A risk analyzer could be implemented as an extension to existing network and service management systems to provide current security status information of a network and or service. Considering a telecommunications service provider for instance embodiments of the present invention would complement an Operation Support System OSS and could be integrated in a Security Operation Center SOC next to a Network Operation Center NOC . For OSS software vendors the risk analysis and management techniques disclosed herein offer an opportunity to provide a specific security extension which could be offered as a customization added component.

Embodiments of the invention may provide many advantages relative to currently available information system and security management tools.

Risks due to security vulnerabilities are related to a service level view. Service level risk analysis for use in prioritization for example greatly improves the utility of a risk analysis tool.

Along with viewing risks by service a total impact of each root cause can be presented. This allows optimum prioritization of remedial action. For example if three nodes of a communication network are at risk or under attack a number of services may be affected. Existing systems typically rate the importance against each asset or attempt to prioritize by assigning a static value to each asset. With the techniques disclosed herein actual impacts to each asset and service can be dynamically calculated.

A consolidated view of a service can be displayed concurrently with other asset relationships. The consolidated views allow detailed information about a service to be displayed in a convenient way.

A mechanism to display multiple key attributes as well as an aggregated value in a convenient and intuitive manner is also provided. This is an improvement over existing systems that either provide limited information of the key attributes or force the operator to access other reports through additional screens or functions.

Key security attributes and or other risk information may also be aggregated into a single attribute or value in some embodiments with both aggregated and contributing attributes or values being available to a user.

The invention provides a method to relate software versions patches and other asset information to a consolidated service view. Current software management systems may provide a view of software vulnerability and patch state but without relating the view back to business objectives or the context of the information system. This results in poor prioritization related to business functions. A consolidated representation of a service as disclosed herein provides a clear relationship between a service composed of assets and possibly other assets.

The various visual display features disclosed herein may also reduce the level of skill required of operators for normal operations.

Although described above primarily in the context of security risk it is possible to use embodiments of the invention for many other purposes such as capacity planning QoS planning etc. Embodiments of the invention may also be useful for checking information system capacity under error conditions. Conversely under error conditions the models disclosed herein might be used to determine which low priority services or functions could be shut down so as to preserve the integrity of higher priority functions.

What has been described is merely illustrative of the application of principles of the invention. Other arrangements and methods can be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

For example it should be appreciated that the service level risk aggregation functions disclosed herein need not necessarily be applied to determine only service level security risks. These functions may also be used to aggregate security risks for other types of asset groups such as those shown in in accordance with the relationships between assets.

Aggregation functions could also be applied where an asset is associated with multiple vulnerabilities. As noted in equations 1 and 2 above for instance the risk to an asset might be determined based on a maximum of the vulnerabilities associated with that asset. A minimum function and other functions that determine an aggregated asset risk based on multiple vulnerabilities or the resultant security risks arising from those vulnerabilities are also contemplated. Thus in some embodiments aggregated asset security risks are determined using a maximum function a minimum function or some other aggregation function. References herein to aggregating risks that arise from multiple vulnerabilities are intended to include aggregating the vulnerabilities or the resultant asset risks and should be interpreted accordingly. Records of contributing vulnerabilities are maintained for aggregated asset risks in some embodiments.

Although described primarily in the context of methods systems and data structures other implementations of the invention are also contemplated illustratively as instructions stored on a machine readable medium for example.

