---

title: Systems and methods for providing online collaborative support
abstract: A first support node and a third node provide online collaborative support to a customer node over a computer network. An online support session facilitating, at least in part, bi-directional communication between the customer node and the first support node is established. The third node is also connected to the online support session and receives support session information from the customer node. In addition, information is communicated bi-directionally between the first support node and the third node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738703&OS=08738703&RS=08738703
owner: Citrix Systems, Inc.
number: 08738703
owner_city: Fort Lauderdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061017
---
The invention generally relates to communications over a computer network. More particularly the invention relates to systems and methods for providing online collaborative support.

Users of computers and computer software programs often require technical support. For example amongst other needs they may require help installing and or navigating through the many features offered by an operating system or an application program. Technical support organizations exist to support and aid those users. For example the user manual or other materials distributed with a computer program may include a telephone number that the recipient and or user of the program can call for assistance.

Typically modern support providers minimize the cost of labor by hiring a large pool of bottom tier personnel who have limited expertise. Such personnel often interact in the first instance with the customer seeking assistance solve trivial issues and escalate non trivial issues to a higher second tier of more knowledgeable or more specialized personnel. These more knowledgeable or specialized personnel may in turn escalate issues beyond their knowledge or capabilities to a higher third tier of even more knowledgeable or more specialized personnel. The third tier may in turn escalate to a fourth tier the fourth tier to a fifth tier and so on.

Each time an issue is escalated a laborious time consuming and inefficient process ensues whereby the lower tier representative contacts a higher tier representative introduces the customer conveys the issue and hands off the customer to the higher tier representative. Often though all representatives at the higher tier will be busy and the customer told to wait and hold or even to call back at another time. Unsurprisingly many computer customers are unsatisfied with the services provided by modern support organizations and may even be reluctant to call such organizations for assistance.

In addition modern support providers often fail or do not have the infrastructure to monitor the communications exchanged between their support personnel and the customers seeking assistance. Accordingly no mechanism exists for improving the level of service provided to the customer or for enhancing the customer s experience with the support provider.

Thus needs clearly exist for improving the current level of services offered by modern technical support organizations and for overseeing the personnel providing such services.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for providing online collaborative support and for monitoring online communications. More specifically embodiments of the present invention enable various modes of real time collaboration between two or more customer support representatives such as for example support representatives at different tiers of knowledge expertise and or specialization. The laborious and sometimes annoying process of handing off a customer to a support representative at a higher tier of knowledge and or specialization may be eliminated from the customer experience and replaced by a method for seamlessly providing collaborative support to the customer. Depending on the mode of operation of the invention the customer may or may not be aware that collaboration is in fact occurring. For example in various embodiments of the invention collaboration occurs among support representatives at different tiers of knowledge and or specialization but the customer perceives that he or she is interacting with only one support representative who appears to the customer to be very knowledgeable and specialized.

In other embodiments of the invention a supervisor or manager for the technical support organization may oversee and monitor the collaboration occurring between the various customer support representatives and the information relayed to and received from the customer seeking aid. By observing such interactions the supervisor or manager is empowered to improve the level of service provided to the customer by for example offering feedback to the support personnel changing the manner in which aid is dispensed to the customer or in which interactions occur between the support personnel correcting mistakes going forward or through other measures.

In general in one aspect the invention features a method of providing online collaborative support to a customer node over a computer network. More specifically an online support session facilitating at least in part bi directional communication between a customer node and a first support node is established a third node is connected to the online support session the third node receives support session information from the customer node and information is communicated bi directionally between the first support node and the third node.

In general in another aspect the invention features a system for providing online collaborative support to a customer node over a computer network. The system includes a first support node and a third node. The first support node is configured to connect to an online support session with a customer node and to bi directionally communicate with the customer node while the third node is configured to connect to the online support session to receive support session information from the customer node and to bi directionally communicate with the first support node.

In various embodiments of these aspects of the invention the third node may be for example a support node that is visible to the customer node a support node that is hidden or cloaked from the customer node or a supervisory or managerial node that monitors communications occurring between the customer node and the first support node. In addition the methods of the invention may employ and the systems of the invention may include the customer node and a node intermediate to the customer node and the third node.

In one embodiment the first support node provides session co ordinates for the online support session to the third node to facilitate connection of the third node to the online support session. This may occur where for example a customer support representative located at the first support node desires to escalate issues beyond his or her knowledge or capability to a more knowledgeable or specialized customer support representative located at the third node. The third node may then be connected to the online support session using the session co ordinates. Where for example the third node is a visible support node the customer node may be notified by the intermediate node for example of the connection from the third node to the online support session. Alternatively where for example the third node is a cloaked support node the third node may be connected to the online support session without notice thereof to the customer node.

In another embodiment information is transmitted from the third node to the customer node. This information may appear to the customer node to have been transmitted from the first support node e.g. the third node is cloaked or hidden from the customer node . Alternatively the customer node may distinguish between the information transmitted from the first support node and the information transmitted from the third node e.g. the third node is visible to the customer node . In addition in one embodiment the customer node processes information transmitted thereto.

In one embodiment the third node is assigned a control privilege over the first support node and the customer node gives priority to processing the information transmitted from the third node. In one example of this embodiment both the first support node and the third node are permitted to interact with the customer node by transmitting commands to the customer node s processor but the third node is assigned higher privileges than the first node and is therefore given priority over the first node in having its commands executed by the customer node s processor. Alternatively in another embodiment priority may simply be accorded to the node that first transmits the information. For example both the first support node and the third node may be given a fair chance to control the customer node and the first to send commands to the customer node s processor is permitted to do so. It should be stressed that modes of operation can change during a session. For example a supervisor initially observing an exchange in a hidden or cloaked fashion may decide upon detecting customer frustration to explicitly join the session. In this way the supervisor can provide not only further support but also reassurance to the customer that a superior is monitoring support interactions.

In yet another embodiment the intermediate node which may be for example a communication server receives the support session information from the customer node and transmits this information to the third node. The customer node may transmit the support session information to the intermediate node without knowledge that the support session information will then be transmitted to the third node e.g. the third node is cloaked from the customer node . Alternatively the customer node may have knowledge that the support session information will be transmitted to the third node e.g. the third node is visible to the customer node .

As mentioned the first support node and the third node may communicate information bi directionally between themselves. The customer support representatives located at those nodes may for example discuss the customer node s support issue amongst themselves or the customer support representative located at the third node may give the customer support representative located at the first node instructions on how to resolve the customer node s support issue. The information communicated between the first support node and the third node may be exchanged with or without notice thereof to the customer node.

In a further embodiment a fourth node is connected to the online support session. More particularly session co ordinates for the online support session may be provided to the fourth node for example from a customer support representative at the third node once he or she desires to escalate issues beyond his or her knowledge or capability to a more knowledgeable or specialized customer support representative located at the fourth node and the fourth node may be connected to the online support session using the received session co ordinates.

In various embodiments once the fourth node is connected to the online support session the fourth node may receive support session information from the customer node and may transmit information in return to the customer node. The information transmitted from the fourth node to the customer node may be directly transmitted from the fourth node to the customer node e.g. the fourth node may be visible to the customer node or the information may be transmitted from the fourth node to the customer node by way of the third node and or the first support node e.g. the fourth node may be cloaked from the customer node . In addition the first support node the third node and the fourth node may communicate information amongst themselves. Naturally these modes of operation can be extended to encompass additional nodes as desired.

In another embodiment the fourth node is for example a supervisory or managerial node that selects the online support session to which it desires to connect. The fourth node may then monitor information communicated between the customer node and the first support node without notice of that monitoring being provided to the customer node or to the first support node. In particular in one embodiment the fourth node is connected to the online support session without notice of that connection being provided to the customer node or to the first support node. In addition in its supervisory or managerial role the fourth node may monitor information communicated between the first support node and one or more additional support nodes without notice and may explicitly join the online support session as the supervisor or manager deems appropriate.

In general the present invention pertains to systems and methods for providing online collaborative support and for monitoring online communications. In broad overview in accordance with one aspect of the invention a first computing device for example a customer node communicates with a second computing device for example a first support node over a computer network. In one embodiment the customer node seeks technical support with for example installing and or navigating through the many features offered by an operating system or an application program. Thus an online support session facilitating bi directional communication between the customer node and the first support node is established. A third computing device or node may also be connected to the online support session and receive support session information from the customer node. The third node may for example collaborate with the first support node to provide collaborative support to the customer node. Alternatively the third node or any additional node e.g. a fourth node a fifth node etc. may monitor or supervise without notice the communications occurring between the customer node and the first support node.

Either or both networks A and B may be for example a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The various nodes illustrated in may be connected to the networks A and or B through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM or wireless connections. The connections moreover may be established using a variety of communication protocols e.g. HTTP TCP IP IPX SPX NetBIOS NetBEUI SMB Ethernet ARCNET Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI RS232 IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g and direct asynchronous connections .

The customer node first support node third node and additional nodes may each be any type of personal computer Windows based terminal network computer wireless device information appliance RISC Power PC X device workstation mini computer main frame computer personal digital assistant set top box handheld device or other computing device that is capable of both presenting information data to and receiving commands from a user of the node or . For example one or more of the customer node first support node third node and additional nodes may include a visual display device e.g. a computer monitor a data entry device e.g. a keyboard persistent and or volatile storage e.g. computer memory a processor and a mouse. In one embodiment the nodes and each include a web browser such as for example the INTERNET EXPLORER program developed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. to connect to the World Wide Web.

Each of the intermediate node and the broker node may be any computing device capable of receiving information data from and delivering information data to the various nodes and illustrated in for example over the networks A and B. For example the intermediate node may be a communication server that facilitates the communication of information over the networks A B between the customer node and one or more of the first support node the third node and the additional nodes and vice versa. For its part the broker node may facilitate the connection of the customer node the first support node the third node and the additional nodes to the intermediate node by for example initially identifying the intermediate node as the node to which they should connect and providing the passwords security information and or other identifying information necessary to establish those connections.

As explained herein the first support node may be operated by a support representative at a first or bottom tier of knowledge experience and or specialization. In one embodiment the third node is also a support node but is operated by a support representative at a second tier who has greater knowledge experience and or specialization than a support representative at the first or bottom tier. Similarly the additional nodes may also be support nodes with the additional node being operated by a support representative at a third tier who has greater knowledge experience and or specialization than a support representative at the second tier and the additional node being operated by a support representative at a higher tier and having greater knowledge experience and or specialization than a support representative that is operating the additional node . As described below with reference to the method the nodes and may collaborate to resolve technical issues faced by the customer node . As also described below a fourth node or another node in the system may operate as a supervisory or managerial node as opposed to a support node.

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that is a simplified illustration of the system and that it is depicted as such to facilitate the explanation of the present invention. For example more than one customer node more than one intermediate node more than one first support node and more than one third node may be present in the system . Moreover in accordance with the invention the first support node may provide technical support to two customer nodes at once the third node may oversee and participate in the provision of technical support to four to ten customer nodes at once i.e. the third node may interact with two to five first support nodes at once the additional node may oversee and participate in the provision of technical support to eight to 50 customer nodes at once i.e. the additional node may interact with two to five third nodes at once and so on. In addition the system need not necessarily include an intermediate node or the broker node . For example the customer node could instead communicate over only a network A or B with one or more of the first support node the third node and the additional nodes . As such the depiction of the system in is non limiting.

With reference now to in one embodiment of a method for providing online collaborative support to a customer node over a computer network for example using the system of an online support session facilitating at least in part bi directional communication between the customer node and the first support node is established at step the third node is connected to the online support session at step support session information is received from the customer node at the third node at step and information is communicated bi directionally between the first support node and the third node at step . Optionally the method may also include notifying the customer node of the connection from the third node to the online support session step transmitting information from the third node to the customer node step and processing by the customer node the information transmitted thereto step . In addition the method may optionally include connecting one of the additional nodes to the online support session step and thereafter repeating steps with that additional node present in the system . Eventually a YES answer is provided to the query of step i.e. the technical issue faced by the customer node is resolved and the online support session is terminated at step . The method may also optionally include connecting a fourth node e.g. additional node to the online support session step and monitoring by the fourth node information communicated between the customer node and the first support node without notice of that monitoring being provided to either the customer node or the first support node step .

In greater detail and with reference to an online support session facilitating at least in part bi directional communication between the customer node and the first support node is established at step . In one embodiment the first support node polls the broker node to determine whether a customer node is requesting support for a technical issue that it is facing. If not the first support node may continue to poll the broker node for example every 15 seconds or another period of time to make the same determination until a customer node does in fact request support from the system . When faced with a technical support issue the customer node may transmit a message to the broker node indicating that it requires assistance. The broker node may then transmit separate messages to both the customer node and the first support node providing each of them with session co ordinates for an online support session. The session co ordinates may indicate for example the intermediate node to which the customer node and the first support node are to connect and may include identification password information for establishing their respective connections to the intermediate node .

Once authenticated by the intermediate node the first support node and the customer node are each connected to an online support session with one another and may bi directionally communicate with one another. For example in an effort to resolve the technical issue s faced by the customer node the first support node and the customer node may chat with one another via text or audio and exchange data e.g. files and the first support node may view the visual display device e.g. screen of the customer node control the mouse and or keyboard commands processed by the processor of the customer node view XML diagnostic information contained in structured XML documents exchanged with the customer node and send support files to the customer node . Any one of such exemplary communications commands documents files and or data that are exchanged for purposes related to the resolution of the technical issue s faced by the computer node are more generally referred to herein as support session information. Moreover one exemplary manner in which the first support node may view the visual display device e.g. screen of the customer node is by employing a screen sharing method of the type described in for example commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 709 141 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Sharing Graphical Screen Data in a Bandwidth Adaptive Manner the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

At step the third node connects to the online support session. In one embodiment the third node is also a support node and collaborates with the first support node in an effort to resolve the technical issue s faced by the customer node . In one such case prior to the third node connecting to the online support session the support representative operating the first support node determines that the technical issue s faced by the customer node are beyond his or her knowledge experience and or specialization and therefore he or she invites the support representative operating the third node to join the online support session. For example the first support node may provide session co ordinates for the online support session to the third node and the third node may use the session co ordinates to connect to the online support session. As before the session co ordinates may include an identification of the intermediate node hosting the online support session and identification password information that will allow the intermediate node to authenticate the third node and connect the third node to the online support session. As another example rather than providing session co ordinates for the online support session to the third node and connecting the third node to the intermediate node the first support node and the third node may establish a separate connection between themselves illustrated in phantom in . The separate connection may use a different communication protocol than the protocol used to communicate information data over the connection existing between the first support node and the customer node and or may be over a different network than the networks A B supporting the connection between the first support node and the customer node . In this second example the first support node may relay to the third node any information transmitted to or received from the customer node . In either example however the third node is connected to the online support session.

At step the third node receives support session information from the customer node . The support session information received from the customer node at the third node may be received through i.e. from the intermediate node . For example the customer node may transmit the support session information to the intermediate node and the intermediate node may in turn transmit such information to the first support node and or the third node . Moreover where the third node is hidden or cloaked from the customer node as explained below the customer node may transmit the support session information to the intermediate node without knowledge that the support session information will then be transmitted by the intermediate node to the third node . Again one exemplary manner in which the third node may view the visual display device e.g. screen of the customer node is by employing a screen sharing method of the type described in for example the 141 application mentioned above. In another embodiment as discussed above the support session information received from the customer node at the third node is received through i.e. from the first support node .

In one embodiment of the invention the third node is a support node that is visible to the customer node . Alternatively in another embodiment of the invention the third node is a support node that is hidden or cloaked from the customer node . Regardless of whether the third node is visible to or cloaked from the customer node information may be communicated bi directionally between the third node and the first support node at step . Where the third node is visible to the customer node the communications that occur between the third node and the first support node may also be visible to the customer node . Where the third node is cloaked from the customer node however the communications that occur between the third node and the first support node are not visible to the customer node . Rather in this latter case information is communicated bi directionally between the first support node and the third node without transmission to the customer node .

In greater detail the third node and the first support node may collaborate at step in an effort to resolve the technical issue s faced by the customer node . Typically the support representative operating the third node has greater knowledge experience and or specialization than the support representative operating the first support node . Accordingly the third node may field questions from the first support node and or from the customer node and provide answers or suggestions to the first support node for resolving the technical issue s faced by the customer node . For example the first support node and the third node may chat with one another via text or audio and exchange data e.g. diagnostic files support files etc. . In one particular embodiment the first support node and the third node communicate with one another using instant messaging style communications.

Where the third node is a support node steps and may optionally be performed in the method following step . More specifically where the third node is a support node that is visible to the customer node the customer node may be notified at step of the connection from the third node to the online support session. For example the intermediate node may notify the customer node of the connection from the third node to the online support session and the visual display device of the customer node may thereafter indicate the presence of the third node . Moreover the third node and the customer node may be able to communicate directly with one another in an effort to resolve the technical issue s faced by the customer node . Alternatively where the third node is a support node that is hidden or cloaked from the customer node the third node connects to the online support session without notice thereof to the customer node and step of the method is not performed. Accordingly in this latter embodiment the visual display device of the customer node does not indicate the presence of the third node and the third node does not communicate directly with the customer node in resolving the technical issue s faced by the customer node .

At step the third node transmits information to the customer node in an effort to resolve the technical issue s faced by the customer node . Where the third node is visible to the customer node such information may be communicated by the third node directly to the customer node . Alternatively in the embodiment where the third node is cloaked from the customer node the information transmitted from the third node to the customer node appears to the customer node to have been transmitted from the first support node . For example in one embodiment the third node instructs the first support node to pass certain specific instructions along to the customer node the first support node then does so and it therefore appears to the customer node that such instructions are originating from the first support node . As another example the intermediate node may re configure all instructions directed by the third node to the customer node so that they appear to the customer node to be originating from the first support node . In such a fashion the support representative operating the first support node appears to the customer node to be more knowledgeable experienced and or specialized than he really is i.e. the support representative operating the first support node appears to the customer node to have the knowledge experience and or specialization of the higher tier support representative operating the third node . Accordingly the user operating the customer node is more likely to be satisfied with the technical support and feedback he is receiving as it appears to him that he is receiving all such support and feedback from the first support node and he is spared the need to sit through the sometimes painfully lengthy handoff process to a higher tier support representative i.e. the support representative operating the third node .

At step the customer node processes the information that it is transmitted. For example the customer node processes the instructions it receives in an effort to alleviate or work around the technical issue s it faces. Where the third node is visible to the customer node the customer node may distinguish between the information that it is transmitted from the first support node and the information that it is transmitted from the third node . In addition the customer node may employ different mechanisms to give priority to processing certain information it receives over other information it receives from nodes over the networks A B. For example because the support representative located at the third node is assumed to have greater knowledge experience and or specialization than the support representative located at the first support node the third node may be assigned a control privilege over the first support node . The control privilege may be determined and assigned by the customer node by the intermediate node by negotiation and agreement between the first support node and the third node or by any other node present in the system . In one embodiment where the third node is assigned a control privilege over the first support node the customer node gives priority to processing the information that it is transmitted from the third node over the information that it is transmitted from the first support node . For example the third node may take control over the customer node s visual display device from the first support node at any time. In one example of this embodiment however the customer node is always given the highest control privilege and may resume control over its visual display device from any other node with which it communicates over the networks A B.

Alternatively in another embodiment the customer node gives priority to processing the information that it is first transmitted from either the first support node or the third node . For example a fair game procedure may determine which of the first support node and third node is given control over the visual display device of the customer node . In one such procedure the first of the first support node and the third node to attempt to take control of the visual display device of the customer node is allowed to do so and that node maintains control of the visual display device until it stops rendering commands to the customer node for a pre determined period of time e.g. 1.5 seconds or another period of time at which point it is again a fair game for obtaining control of the customer node s visual display device. As with the previous embodiment the customer node may be configured to resume control at any time and without having to participate in the fair game over its visual display device from any other node with which it communicates over the networks A B.

After a certain period of time the technical issue s faced by the customer node are either resolved i.e. a YES answer is provided at step and the online support session is terminated at step or they are not and the support representative operating the third node determines that the technical issue s faced by the customer node are beyond his or her knowledge experience and or specialization i.e. a NO answer is provided at step and the method proceeds to step . In the latter case the third node may request the advice or services of an additional node i.e. a higher tier support representative having even greater knowledge experience and or specialization to aid in resolving the technical issue s faced by the customer node . For example the third node may provide the session co ordinates for the online support session to the additional node and the additional node may be connected at step to the online support session using the session co ordinates as described above for the third node with respect to step of the method . Again as another example rather than providing session co ordinates for the online support session to the additional node and connecting the additional node to the intermediate node a separate connection similar to the connection between the first support node and the third node may be established between the additional node and the third node or between the additional node and the first support node neither of which is shown in . The third node or the first support node may then relay to the additional node any information transmitted to or received from the customer node . As before in either example the additional node is connected to the online support session. Thus as used herein the phrase connecting to an online support session is intended to broadly cover any form of partaking in the session including instances in which an additional node actually joins the session as a participant e.g. via intermediate node or instead joins the session through communication with one of the session participants e.g. the first support node or a higher tier node .

Once the additional node is connected to the online support session the additional node the third node and the first support node may collaborate to resolve the technical issue s faced by the customer node . Specifically as indicated by feedback arrow steps and of the method may be again performed with the additional node connected to the online support session. Accordingly in addition to what was described above and in a similar manner to what was described above for the third node the additional node may receive support session information from the customer node step information may be communicated among the first support node the third node and the additional node step the additional node may transmit information either directly or indirectly to the customer node step and the customer node may process the information it is transmitted from either the first support node the third node or the additional node step . In addition as was described for the third node the additional node may be either visible to or cloaked from the customer node meaning that step of the method is either performed or not respectively once the additional node is connected to the online support session .

Once step of the method is again reached the technical issue s faced by the customer node are either resolved meaning that the method advances to step or they are not and the support representative operating the additional node determines that the technical issue s are beyond his or her knowledge experience and or specialization and proceeds to request the advice and or services of an even higher tier support representative having even greater knowledge experience and or specialization i.e. an additional node to aid in resolving the technical issue s . In other words step of the method is again entered the additional node is connected to the online support session and steps and of the method are again repeated. One skilled in the art will understand that this repetitive pattern of escalating the technical issue s faced by the customer node may be repeated until the Nth additional node is finally able to resolve the technical issue s faced by the customer node and the online support session is terminated at step .

Of course other criteria may determine when an additional node joins the online support session. For example a supervisory or managerial node described below may be connected to the session if its monitoring time exceeds a pre determined time threshold if customer frustration is detected using known automated analysis techniques implemented on the first support node or the intermediate node for example or if the need for more specialized personnel is recognized through ongoing automated monitoring of the session dialog.

As stated above the method may also optionally include connecting a fourth node e.g. additional node to the online support session step and monitoring the information that is communicated between the customer node and the first support node step . In addition the fourth node may even monitor any information that is communicated between the customer node and the third node . For example the fourth node may monitor the information that is communicated between the customer node and the first support node and or between the customer node and the third node without notice of that monitoring being provided to either the customer node the first support node or the third node . In other words the fourth node is hidden or cloaked from each of the customer node the first support node and the third node . In one such embodiment the fourth node is a managerial or supervisory node. Although not explicitly shown in in yet another embodiment where the fourth node is a supervisory or managerial node the fourth node may monitor the various nodes in the system that are collaborating to resolve the technical issue s faced by the customer node . For example the fourth node may monitor the information communicated between the first support node the third node and any additional nodes that are also functioning as support nodes without notice of that monitoring being provided to either the first support node to the third node or to those one or more additional support nodes .

In these embodiments where the fourth node acts in a supervisory or managerial role the supervisor or manager operating the fourth node may be provided at step for example via the visual display device of the fourth node with a summary of all of the support representatives he or she oversees. The summary may list for example all active online support sessions in the system involving the support representatives for whom the manager or supervisor is responsible. The summary may also identify for each of those active online support sessions the corresponding intermediate node hosting that online support session where more than one intermediate node is employed in hosting the multiple support sessions and the support nodes in the system that are participating in that online support session. The supervisor or manager may then employ the fourth node to select the online support session to which he or she desires to connect. For example the fourth node may obtain the appropriate session co ordinates from the broker node and use those session co ordinates to connect to the online support session at step . In one such embodiment the fourth node is connected to the online support session without notice of that connection being provided to the customer node to the first support node to the third node or to any additional support nodes who are active in the online support session.

Once connected to the online support session at step as a supervisory or managerial node the fourth node is able to receive all support session information exchanged between the nodes participating in the online support session including any private chat that is exchanged between the first support node the third node and the additional support nodes chat that is exchanged with the customer node representations of what is being displayed by the visual display devices of the customer node the first support node the third node and any additional support nodes as well as other support session information. Thus by observing the collaboration that occurs between the various nodes participating in the support session the supervisor or manager is empowered to improve the level of service that is provided to the customer node . For example the supervisor or manager may offer feedback to the support personnel change the manner in which aid is dispensed to the customer node or in which interactions occur between the support personnel correct mistakes going forward and take other measures. Moreover it should be noted that in some embodiments more than one supervisory or managerial node may monitor the online communications.

Accordingly in addition to other advantages the present invention is capable of providing both a consistent customer experience and the seamless escalation of one or more technical support issues faced by the customer node to higher tier support personnel. More specifically where all support nodes other than the first support node are hidden or cloaked from the customer node the customer node will perceive itself to only be communicating with the first support node i.e. a single bottom tier support representative operating the first support node who will frequently have special language and or interpersonal skills training . However unbeknownst to the customer node the technical issue s faced by the customer node may be step wise escalated to one or more higher tier support representatives each having greater knowledge experience and or specialization than the last. As all collaboration that occurs between those support representatives and all instructions sent to the processor of the customer node may be cloaked i.e. appear to the customer node to be originating from the first support node the customer node further perceives that the single bottom tier support representative that operates the first support node is highly skilled and capable of solving any problem.

In addition the present invention frees up resources at the support provider and allows those resources to be allocated optimally. More specifically the present invention enables higher tier support representatives to work on multiple issues in parallel and to concentrate on problem solving not customer interaction. Moreover the present invention permits for real time oversight by allowing supervisors and managers to monitor their representatives for quality assurance during the online support session the supervisors and managers need not wait for a recording or a transcript of the support session to become available. Thus steps for improving a support representative s performance may be more quickly identified and implemented. Of course the present invention still also permits for the dialog that occurred during the online support session to be archived and later reviewed. It may be reviewed for example to ascertain whether technical issue s faced by the customer node were escalated to higher tier support representatives at the appropriate times and as such to determine whether the resources e.g. the support nodes in the system are being optimally allocated.

It should also be noted that embodiments of the present invention may be provided as one or more computer readable programs embodied on or in one or more articles of manufacture. The article of manufacture may be a floppy disk a hard disk a CD ROM a flash memory card a PROM a RAM a ROM or a magnetic tape. In general the computer readable programs may be implemented in any programming language. Some examples of languages that can be used include C C or JAVA. The software programs may be stored on or in one or more articles of manufacture as object code.

Certain embodiments of the present invention were described above. It is however expressly noted that the present invention is not limited to those embodiments but rather the intention is that additions and modifications to what was expressly described herein are also included within the scope of the invention. Moreover it is to be understood that the features of the various embodiments described herein were not mutually exclusive and can exist in various combinations and permutations even if such combinations or permutations were not made express herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. In fact variations modifications and other implementations of what was described herein will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. As such the invention is not to be defined only by the preceding illustrative description.

