---

title: Systems and methods for caller identification customization and remote management of communication devices
abstract: Methods, devices, systems and computer program products are described for implementing on a communication device customized caller ID and remote functional management of a communication device via shared secret exchange between calling and called parties. Customized caller ID provides for a calling party to identify themself regardless of the device they are using to place to call. In addition, other remote functional management, such as call priority tagging, provides for the calling party to prioritize the call or otherwise customize a call ID message to the called party. By exchanging shared secrets amongst the calling and called parties, the customized caller ID method and remote functional management are secure, thereby eliminating the likelihood of unauthorized tampering by unknown parties. Shared secret exchange also provides for authorized callers to remotely access and manage the communication device, such as, for example, to remotely lock down or place the communication device in an off state.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148431&OS=09148431&RS=09148431
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09148431
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061212
---
The described aspects relate to caller identification systems and more particularly to systems and methods for on demand customization of a caller identification.

Caller identification otherwise referred to as caller ID was first invented in the early 1980 s and became widely commercially available in the 1990 s. Today caller ID is available to both wired i.e. landline and wireless communication devices.

In conventional caller ID the service provider such as a telephone company implements a Frequency Key Shift FSK technique to send ASCII American Standard Code for Information Interchange character data intertwined with the ring signal data. A modem within the call receiving device decodes the bits in the call transmission such as the ring signal and the caller ID information. The caller ID information may include the calling device identification number i.e. the calling device telephone number and in some applications the name of the user associated with the calling device telephone number.

In contrast in a wireless communication device caller ID is implemented by matching the received over the air phone number with entries in the device s phonebook or contact listings. If a match in the phonebook or contact list is found then the name associated with the phone number is displayed on the wireless device.

However in both the conventional caller ID service and in the wireless communication caller ID system caller identification is limited to identifying the caller typically associated with the phone number. For example conventional caller ID identifies the party registered with the service provider as the owner of the telephone number or the party associated with the telephone number within the receiving device s phone book or contact list. As such known caller ID systems do not accommodate the situation in which the actual caller is someone other than the party registered with the service provider or the party associated with the telephone number within the receiving device s phone book or contact list.

For example in the situation in which a telephone wired or wireless is borrowed by someone who needs to place a call a wireless device receiving the call will typically display only the calling telephone number because the phone number will likely not exist in the receiving device s phone book in association with a name. Likewise if the receiving device is a wired communication device the caller ID function may provide for display of data that indicates the name of the party associated with the phone number but not the name of the actual caller.

Thus a problem arises in that the receiving party does not recognize the displayed telephone number and or the name of the party associated with the telephone number and therefore the receiving party may choose to ignore the call. In many instances this problem may be exasperated when someone is borrowing a telephone to place a call where the call is of the utmost importance and being able to immediately communicate with the called party is critical.

Additionally current caller ID systems do not provide for prioritizing the importance of a call to insure that the receiving party answers the call. Such prioritization of communications is commonplace in other forms of communication such as electronic mail which uses red flags or exclamation points to signify that a message is high priority. In this regard prioritization may be desired to highlight the importance of the communications to the recipient. In the land line telephone hypothetical a receiving party who is burdened during the workday with frequent calls may routinely choose to ignore such calls and opt to have the caller leave voicemail. However if the caller is provided with a means for signaling to the receiving party that the importance of the call warrants high priority then the receiving party may be more prone to answer the call immediately in view of such signaling.

However in both the situation in which the calling party wishes to customize the caller ID information so as to insure that the called party knows the callers identity and in the situation in which the calling party wishes to prioritize a call to insure that the called party answers the call it may be desirable to insure that non authorized callers such as scammers telemarketers or the like do not have access to customizing their caller ID information or prioritizing their calls. Security in this regard may be useful to insure that scammers do not dupe the receiving party into believing that they are a known party or an important caller based on unreliable information.

Thus a need exists for methods and systems that provide for customized caller identification. The customization aspect of the system may provide for the calling party to override the standard caller ID information associated with the calling communication device. In addition customization may provide for the calling party to prioritize calls for the purpose of alerting the receiving party that a call has heightened importance.

Systems methods devices and computer programs are provided that provide for customized caller ID and remote secured management of wireless devices. Present aspects utilize a shared secret between calling party and called party to allow for customized caller identification and or remote management of the called communication device. In this regard a caller is able to identify themself in instances in which they are using an alternate communication device i.e. a device other than their own . Additionally customized caller ID provides for the calling party to prioritize or otherwise present a customized message to the calling party. Shared secrets also provide for secured remote management and control of the communication device allowing a communication device user to grant the right to remotely access the communication device and perform functions available on the device or to lock down or place the device in an off mode.

In one aspect a method for remote management of a communication device is defined. The method comprises receiving a communication call that includes shared secret data verifying the shared secret and performing a communication device function associated with the verified shared secret. The action of receiving a communication call that includes shared secret data may further be defined by the action of receiving a communication that includes a trigger and a shared secret. The action of verifying the shared secret may further be defined be the actions of referencing a predetermined database in response to receipt of the shared secret and referencing a predetermined entry in the database associated with the shared secret. In aspects in which the communication call includes a trigger and shared secret data the action of verifying the shared secret may further be defined be the actions of referencing a predetermined database associated with the trigger and referencing a predetermined entry in the database associated with the shared secret.

The action of performing a communication device function associated with the verified shared secret may further be defined by the action of an output signal such as a visual display or audio signal to identify a caller associated with the shared secret. Additionally the action of performing a communication device function associated with the verified shared secret may further be defined by the action of an output signal such as a visual display or audio signal to identify a priority of the call such as high or urgent priority. Also the action of performing a communication device function associated with the verified shared secret further may further be defined by the action of providing a caller access to one or more communication device functions or providing the caller the ability to lock the device in an off mode.

A further aspect is defined by a computer readable medium tangibly storing a sequence of instructions that when executed cause a computer device to perform the actions of receiving a communication call including shared secret data verifying the shared secret and performing a communication device function based on the verification of the shared secret.

A related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of receiving a communication call including shared secret data verifying the shared secret and performing a communication device function based on the verification of the shared secret.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method for caller identification on a communication device. The method includes the actions of receiving a communication call including shared secret data accessing a database to determine a contact associated with the shared secret and providing an output signal that identifies the contact associated with the shared secret. The output signal may include a display of a caller identification an audible signal or any other suitable output signal. The action of receiving a communication call including shared secret data may further be defined by the action of receiving a communication call having a trigger and a shared secret. In such aspects the action of accessing a database to determine a contact associated with the shared secret is further defined as accessing a database associated with the trigger to determine a contact associated with the shared secret. In addition to providing an output signal to identify the contact the shared secret data may additional provide for accessing a database to determine communication priority associated with the shared secret data and providing an output signal such as a display of call priority or an audio signal which identifies the communication priority associated with the shared secret.

A further aspect is provided by a communication device that includes a personal information manager that includes one or more databases that associate shared secrets with shared secret information. The communication device further includes a call manager module that includes shared secret recognition logic operable to recognize a shared secret in a communication call and access the contact database to determine shared secret information associated with the shared secret and shared secret function logic operable for performing a communication device function based on at least one of the shared secret and shared secret information. The shared secret function logic may be defined by caller identification logic operable to identify a caller associated with the shared secret and to provide an output signal such as a visual display or audio signal which identifies the caller. In other aspects in the shared secret function logic may be defined by call priority logic operable to identify a priority of the communication call based on a shared secret and provide an output signal such as a visual display or audio signal which identifies the priority of the call. Additionally the shared secret function logic may be defined by communication device management logic operable to provide caller access to communication device functionality based on the shared secret. Alternatively the shared secret function logic may be defined by communication device lock down logic operable to lock down the communication device based on the shared secret.

In yet another aspect a communication device is provided that includes a contact database that associates a contact with a shared secret. The communication device further includes a call manager module including shared secret recognition logic operable to recognize a shared secret in a communication call and access the contact database to determine a contact associated with the shared secret and caller identification logic operable to provide an output signal such as a visual display or an audio signal which identifies the contact associated with the shared secret as the calling party and provide an output signal that identifies the contact as the caller. Additionally the call manager module may include call priority logic operable to provide an output signal such as a visual display or audio signal which identifies a call priority based on the shared secret.

Further aspects are defined in terms of a network device such as a server residing at a base station or the like. In one aspect a method for providing remote access to a communication device via a network device is defined. The method includes receiving at a network device a communication call request including a calling device identification number and a shared secret and communicating a call request to a called party that includes the calling device identification number and the shared secret. The method also may include providing for receiving a trigger in addition to the calling device identification number and shared secret and communicating the trigger along with the call request to the called party.

A related aspect is defined by a computer readable medium tangibly storing a sequence of instructions that when executed cause a computer device to perform the actions of receiving at a network device a communication call request including a calling device identification number and a shared secret and communicating a call request to a called party that includes the calling device identification number and the shared secret.

A further related aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to perform the actions of receiving at a network device a communication call request including a calling device identification number and a shared secret and communicating a call request to a called party that includes the calling device identification number and the shared secret.

Another aspect is provided by a network device such as a server residing at a base station or the like. The device includes a shared secret forwarding module that includes shared secret recognition logic operable for recognizing a shared secret in a communication call request and shared secret forwarding logic operable to communicate the shared secret to a called party associated with the communication call request.

Thus the describe aspects provide methods devices systems and computer program products for customizing caller ID or performing remote management of device functionality by implementing shared secret exchange between calling and called parties. Customized caller ID provides for a calling party to identify themself regardless of the device they are using to place to call. In addition another function such as call priority tagging provides for the calling party to prioritize the call or otherwise customize a call identification message to the called party. By exchanging shared secrets amongst the calling and called parties the customized caller ID and remote functional management method is secure eliminating the likelihood of unauthorized tampering by unknown parties. Shared secret exchange also provides for authorized callers to remotely access and manage the communication device such as for example remotely locking down the communication device in an off state.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors are described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Further in this description like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors provide for customized caller identification i.e. caller ID and secured remote access and management of communication devices. Present aspects utilize a shared secret between calling party and called party to allow for customized caller identification and or remote access or management of the called communication device. In this regard a caller is able to identify themself in instances in which they are using an alternate communication device i.e. a device other than their own . Additionally customized caller ID provides for the calling party to prioritize or otherwise present a customized message to the calling party. Shared secrets also provide for secured remote management and control of the communication device allowing a communication device user to grant the right to remotely access the communication device and perform functions available on the device or to lock down or place the device in an off mode.

Referring to according to one aspect a system for customized caller ID and or remote access and management of communication devices is depicted. It should be noted that the customized caller ID secured remote access and communication device management functionality of the present aspects herein described may reside at the called communication device level the network device level or any combination of the called device and the network device. In the illustrated aspect of the functionality in terms of recognizing the shared secret and associating it with an entry in a database resides at the called device level. The system includes a first communication device which in this example serves as the called communication device a second communication device which in this example serves as the calling communication device and a network device such as server device residing at a base station within the communication network. In the illustrated aspect the communication devices are wireless devices however in other aspects one or more of the communication devices may be wired communication devices such as landline telephones or the like and the network device may be a component within a landline network.

System allows for a first user and a second user to customize caller ID and or call priority information as well as allowing for remote access and management of communication devices. The first user is associated with the first communication device such that the first user is the owner or typical possessor of the first communication device. Further the second user is not associated with the second communication device such that the second user is a borrower or secondary possessor of the second communication device i.e. the second communication device is not the device typically possessed by the second user . The second user will create a shared secret and communicate the shared secret and any related shared secret information to the first user . The communication of the shared secret and any related shared secret information is represented by arrow in

The shared secret may take the form of any data that may be recognizable by the first communication device . In many aspects the shared secret will be a numeric code such as a two or more digit numeric code. In other aspects the shared secret may be a visual data such as an image an audio data such as a ring tone signal biometric data such as fingerprint data voice data or the like. Related shared secret information may include data associated with the shared secret such as a priority data in the form of a visual message to be displayed or an audio signal to be generated or the additional shared secret information may include instructions for remotely accessing and or managing the communication device based on the exchange of the shared secret.

The second user will communicate arrow the shared secret and any related shared secret information to the first user by any acceptable means of communication such as electronic communication in person communication or the like. Typically the chosen means of shared secret communication will provide for the requisite level of communication security to insure that the shared secret is not shared or otherwise comes into the possession of unauthorized users. In this regard electronic communication may utilize encryption or some other form of secured communication to insure that the shared secret remains confidential.

Upon receipt of the shared secret the first user will input the shared secret and any related shared secret information into the first communication device . The inputting of the shared secret and any related shared secret information into the first communication device is represented by arrow in . In one aspect a Graphical User Interface GUI module is executed on the first communication device and includes data entry logic operable for entering the shared secret and any related shared secret information into device storage such as personal information manager which may include a personal phonebook contact database or the like such that the shared secret and any related shared secret information is associated with second user in the contact database phone book database or the like. The second user may have a preexisting entry in the first communication device contact storage or phone book storage or it may be necessary to create a new contact entry for the second user that will include the shared secret and any related shared secret information. which illustrate examples of a display of a GUI highlighting the procedure for entering shared secrets into a contact or phone book database will be discussed in detail infra. which illustrate examples of a display of GUI highlighting procedure for entering additional shared secret information into a contact or phone book database will also be discussed in detail infra.

In alternate aspects in which the shared secret and any related shared secret information is communicated electronically from the second user to the first communication device the first communication device may be configured to automatically recognize the shared secret and related information automatically associate the shared secret with the user sending the secret and automatically store the shared secret in the corresponding entry within the contact or phone book database associated with the user sending the shared secret. In such aspects the need to have the first user manually input the shared secret and any related shared secret information may be obviated.

Once the shared secret has been stored within the first communication device the second user may borrow or otherwise use the second communication device to call the first communication device . As previously discussed the second communication device is not the device typically used by or associated with the second user . As such in typical caller ID systems the receipt of a call from second communication device by first communication device would typically result in either no caller ID information being displayed or with the phone number and or name of the actual owner of the second communication device who may not be known by the owner of the first communication device being displayed. The use of the second communication device by the second user is represented by arrow in . The second communication device may include a dialer module that is operable to input a telephone number to place a call request. In some aspects the dialer module may include shared secret entry logic that is operable for entering a shared secret or otherwise attaching a shared secret to the call request. In one aspect the shared secret entry logic is operable such that the entry of a trigger command after entry of the called party telephone number provides for the entry of a shared secret. For example the key and an accompanying numeric code may serve as the trigger and a shared secret in the form of a numeric code may be entered after input of the trigger. provides examples of call request entry sequences and will be discussed in detail infra. It should be noted however that shared secret entry logic may not be required such as in the case where the combination of the entered phone number one or more shared secret trigger commands and one or more shared secrets is within a predetermined number of digits recognized by the communication network in use.

Once the call request which includes the dialed telephone number and the shared secret is communicated to the base station the request is received by a network device such as a server or the like. The communication of the call request from the second communication device to the network device is represented by wireless communication bolt . The network device may include shared secret recognition logic operable for recognizing a shared secret in the call request and parsing the payload that includes the shared secret . In aspects in which the call request includes a trigger and a shared secret the shared secret recognition logic may be configured to recognize the trigger and parse the payload that includes the trigger and shared secret. The network device also may include shared secret forwarding logic that is operable for forwarding the parsed payload including the shared secret and optional trigger to the called party. It should be noted however that shared secret recognition logic and or shared secret forwarding logic may not be required such as in the case where the combination of the entered phone number one or more shared secret trigger commands and one or more shared secrets is within a predetermined number of digits recognized and forwarded by the communication network in use and or the network device .

The network device forwards the call request shared secret and in some aspects a trigger to the first communication device . The call manager module is operable to receive the call request and shared secret recognition logic may be operable to recognize the shared secret verify the existence of the shared secret in device database such as the shared secret database in personal information manager and upon verification perform the function or execute the application related to the shared secret. In some aspects in addition to shared secret recognition logic the call manager module may include trigger recognition logic that is operable to recognize a trigger as an indicator that a shared secret is forthcoming in the call request. In some aspects the trigger may indicate the function or application that relates to the shared secret. In this regard the trigger recognition may provide information as to which databases are associated with the forthcoming shared secret for the purpose of verification and instructions on functionality and or execution related to the shared secret.

In one aspect in which the use of shared secrets provide for customized caller identification the call control manager may include caller identification ID logic operable to recognize the caller s identification by displaying on a device display the telephone number and or name associated with the calling device. In this aspect the shared secret recognition logic and optionally the trigger recognition logic may be operable to recognize a shared secret and optionally recognize a trigger such that the caller ID logic is overridden from displaying the telephone number and or name associated with the calling device. Instead the shared secret recognition logic verifies the shared secret in the shared secret database of the personal information manager and communicates the personal information associated with the shared secret such as name telephone number or other identification to the caller ID logic for display or directly displays this information. In this regard this aspect provides for the display of the identification of the actual caller based on the shared secret rather than the display of the identification of the calling device s owner.

Referring to according to an alternate aspect a system for customized caller ID and or remote access and management of communication devices is depicted. In the illustrated aspect of the functionality in terms of recognizing the shared secret and associating it with an entry in a database resides at the network device level. The system includes a first communication device which in this example serves as the called communication device a second communication device which in this example serves as the calling communication device and a network device such as server device residing at a base station within the communication network. Similar to in the illustrated aspect of the communication devices are wireless devices however in other aspects one or more of the communication devices may be wired communication devices such as landline telephones or the like and the network device may be a component within a landline network.

System allows for a first user and a second user to customize caller ID and or call priority information as well as allowing for remote access and management of communication devices. The first user is associated with the first communication device such that the first user is the owner or typical possessor of the first communication device. Further the second user is not associated with the second communication device such that the second user is a borrower or secondary possessor of the second communication device i.e. the second communication device is not the device typically possessed by the second user . The second user will create a shared secret and communicate the shared secret and any related shared secret information directly to the network device and or to the first user for subsequent communication to the network device . Communication of the shared secret and any related shared secret information directly to the network device from the second user is represented by arrow input into second communication device and wireless communication bolt electronic communication from the second communication device to the network device . Alternatively communication of the shared secret and any related shared secret information from the second user to the first user is represented by arrow in .

The second user may communicate represented by arrow the shared secret and any related shared secret information to the first user by any acceptable means of communication such as electronic communication in person communication or the like. In addition the second user may communicate represented by arrow and bolt the shared secret and any related shared secret information to the network device by any acceptable means of communication such as electronic communication in person communication or the like. Typically the chosen means of shared secret communication will provide for the requisite level of communication security to insure that the shared secret is not shared or otherwise comes into the possession of unauthorized users. In this regard electronic communication may utilize encryption or some other form of secured communication to insure that the shared secret remains confidential.

In aspects in which the second user communicates the shared secret and any additional shared secret information directly to the network device the need to send the shared secret and any related information to the first user may be obviated. In such aspects in which the second user communicates the shared secret and any related shared secret information directly to the network device without communication to the first user customized caller ID remote access and or communication device management may be conducted without knowledge of the first user .

However in those aspects in which the shared secret and any related shared secret information are communicated to the first user and subsequently communicated to the network device the first user inputs the shared secret and any related shared secret information into the first communication device for subsequent communication to the network device . The inputting of the shared secret and any related shared secret information into the first communication device is represented by arrow in . In one aspect a Graphical User Interface GUI module is executed on the first communication device and includes data entry logic operable for entering the shared secret and any related shared secret information and optionally storing the shared secret and related information locally. The GUI module may also include network upload logic operable for uploading or otherwise communicating the shared secret and any related shared secret information to the network device . In an alternate aspect the first communication device may include a web browser application that allows the first user to access a web page associated with the network device enter the shared secret and any related shared secret information and subsequently communicate the shared secret and related information across the Internet to the network device .

In alternate aspects in which the shared secret and any related shared secret information is communicated electronically from the second user to the first communication device the first communication device may be configured to automatically recognize the shared secret and related information and automatically upload or otherwise communicate the shared secret and any related shared secret information to the network device . In such aspects the need to have the first user manually input the shared secret and any related shared secret information may be obviated.

Once the shared secret has been stored within the network device the second user may borrow or otherwise use the second communication device to call the first communication device . As previously discussed the second communication device is not the device typically used by or associated with the second user . The second communication device may include a dialer module that is operable to input a telephone number to place a call request. In some aspects the dialer module may include shared secret entry logic that is operable for entering a shared secret or otherwise attaching a shared secret to the call request. In one aspect the shared secret entry logic is operable such that the entry of a trigger command after entry of the called party telephone number provides for the entry of a shared secret. For example the key and an accompanying numeric code may serve as the trigger and a shared secret in the form of a numeric code may be entered after input of the trigger. provides examples of call request entry sequences and will be discussed in detail infra. It should be noted however that shared secret entry logic may not be required such as in the case where the combination of the entered phone number one or more shared secret trigger commands and one or more shared secrets is within a predetermined number of digits recognized by the communication network in use.

Once the call request which includes the dialed telephone number and the shared secret is communicated to the base station the request is received by a network device such as a server or the like. The communication of the call request from the second communication device to the network device is represented by wireless communication bolt . The network device may also include shared secret recognition logic that may be operable to recognize the shared secret verify the existence of the shared secret in a network database such as the shared secret in client information manager and upon verification perform the function or execute the application related to the shared secret. The client information manager is a database stored within the network device or stored at any other network location that is accessible to the network device. The client information manager is database of client user information and may specifically include shared secret and any related shared secret information associated with a client user. In aspects in which a trigger is included in the call request the network device may also include may include trigger recognition logic that is operable to recognize a trigger as an indicator that a shared secret is forthcoming in the call request. In some aspects the trigger may indicate the function or application that relates to the shared secret. In this regard the trigger recognition may provide information as to which databases are associated with the forthcoming shared secret for the purpose of verification and instructions on functionality and or execution related to the shared secret.

In certain aspects in which the function related to the shared secret is customized caller ID the verification of the shared secret within the client information manager will invoke the caller ID override logic that is operable to replace in the payload of the call request the calling device i.e. second communication device caller ID information with caller ID information associated with the shared secret owner i.e. the actual calling party . In this regard the call request that is subsequently forwarded to the celled device i.e. first communication device will include the telephone number associated with the second communication device and the caller ID information associated with the second user i.e. the owner of the shared secret . As such this aspect provides for the display of the identification of the actual caller based on the shared secret rather than the display of the identification of the calling device s owner.

In alternate aspects in which the function related to the shared secret pertains to remote access communication device management or the like the network device may include additional shared secret related insertion logic operable for inserting within the call request payload identification and or instructions for remote access communication device management or the like. In certain aspects the insertion logic may insert an identification such as code within the payload that will be recognizable by the first communication device i.e. the called party and associated with the requisite remote access communication device management or the like. In alternate aspects the insertion logic may insert instructions such as a routine applications applet or the like within the payload that will be executed by the first communication device to perform the requisite remote access communication device management or the like.

The network device forwards to the first communication device the call request the caller ID information associated with the calling party and or remote access communication device management identification or instructions. The call manager module is operable to receive the call request and the caller ID logic is operable to display or otherwise provide to the user the caller ID information included in the call request. In this aspect the call request may include the telephone number of the second communication device and the caller ID information associated with the second user i.e. the user associated with the shared secret . The call manager module may additionally include remote access device management logic operable to recognize a remote access device management code in the call request and perform a function associated with the code. Alternatively the remote access device management logic may be operable to execute instructions in the call request to perform requisite remote access device management functions.

Referring to according to one aspect a block diagram representation of a communication device such as first communication device is depicted. The communication device depicted is a wireless communication device such as any type of computerized wireless device for example a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a two way text pager a portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across a wireless or wired network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. In alternate aspects the communication device may be a wired communication device such as a landline telephone personal computer set top box or the like. The apparatus and method for customized caller identification and or remote device management can accordingly be performed on any form of wired or wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Additionally communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into wireless device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a keypad or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provide for user input to activate the graphical user interface module and input shared secrets into device memory. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. The output mechanisms such as a display may be implemented in those aspects in which customized caller IDs are communicated to the device user typically via a display or audio speaker.

Further communication device has computer platform that can transmit data across wireless network or in some aspects a wired network and that can receive and execute routines and applications and display data transmitted from network device such as a server or another computer device connected to a wireless or wired. Computer platform includes a data registry which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data registry may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as GUI module and or call manager module in a data registry of communication device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless or wired network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone communications processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the GUI module or support the call manager module .

The data registry of computer platform may further store a Graphical User Interface GUI module that includes data entry logic operable for entering a shared secret and any related shared secret information into communication device memory data registry such as personal information manager . The GUI module is typically operable to provide the user of the device a visual display of data entry fields for inputting the shared secret and any related shared secret information. In alternate aspects in which the shared secret and or related shared secret information is electronically communicated to the device the shared secret may be automatically entered into memory obviating the need to invoke the GUI module for shared secret entry. The personal information manager that stores the shared secret and the related shared secret information may comprise a contact information database such as a personal phonebook or the like. The contact information database stores personal information related to contacts such as name telephone number and the like and associates the shared secret and optionally related shared secret information with a contact. In alternate aspects the shared secret and related shared information may be stored in other files or directories within personal information manager or elsewhere in the data registry which provide for association between callers contacts and shared secrets.

The data registry of computer platform further may include a call manager module that may include shared secret recognition logic operable for recognizing a shared secret in a call request verifying that the shared secret is associated with a caller contact and performing the function or application associated with the shared secret or as prescribed by related shared secret information . Verifying that the shared secret is associated with a caller contact may involve accessing the personal information manager and verifying that a shared secret is associated with a caller contact in the database. Once the shared secret has been verified logic may perform the function or application associated with the shared secret or the related shared information. For example the shared secret may be associated with a custom caller ID function whereby the caller contact identification associated with the shared secret is displayed or otherwise communicated as the caller in lieu of the calling device s identification. In other examples the shared secret may be associated with a device function such as disabling the device or otherwise locking down the device to prevent unauthorized use of a lost or stolen device.

The call manager module may further include trigger recognition logic operable for recognizing a trigger in a call request. The trigger may be numeric code or the like that notifies the call control manager that a shared secret is appended in the call request. In some aspects the trigger may indicate the function or application to which the shared secret is associated with. For example a trigger having a numeric value of 88 may indicate that custom caller ID functionality is associated with the appended shared secret while a trigger having a numeric value of 89 may indicate that call priority tagging such as displaying or otherwise communicating an urgent message with the call indicator signal is associated with the appended shared secret. In such aspects the personal information manager or another device database may store data that associates the triggers with the shared secrets and the optional related shared secret information .

In one aspect in which the shared secret is associated with caller identification functionality the call manager module may include caller ID logic . Caller ID logic may be operable to provide a display or otherwise communicate caller identification such as name telephone number and the like. Conventional caller ID logic provides for the display or other communication of the identification typically a name or telephone number associated with the calling device. In present aspects however the caller ID logic may be configured such that recognition of a shared secret provides for display or other communication of the contact caller associated with the shared secret in lieu of the display or communication of the identification associated with the calling device. Additional information typically stored in the related shared secret information may also be displayed or otherwise communicated such as call priority or the like. As such the calling party who is calling from a device other than a device that is typically associated with the calling party for example a borrowed device can insure that their identification information is displayed or otherwise communicated to the called party rather than the actual owner information to increase the likelihood that the called party answers or otherwise acknowledges the call. In alternate aspects in which the shared secret recognition and association is conducted at the network device the caller ID logic may be operable to recognize caller ID information in the call request payload and display or otherwise output the caller ID information.

In other aspects in which the shared secret is associated with remote access and or device management functionality the call manager module may include remote access device management logic . In aspects in which shared secret recognition and association is conducted at the called communication device remote access device management logic may be operable to recognize a trigger or shared secret associated with a remote access function or device management function and perform the remote access or device management. In alternate aspects in which the shared secret recognition and association is conducted at the network device remote access device management logic may be operable to recognize a remote access device management code in the call request and perform a function associated with the code or the remote access device management logic may be operable to execute instructions in the call request to perform requisite remote access device management functions.

The computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the communication device as well as between the device and a wired or wireless network. The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wired or wireless communication connection.

Referring to in one aspect a block diagram depiction of a network device operable for recognizing shared secrets associating the shared secrets with a caller or function and or forwarding call requests is presented. The network device may comprise at least one of any type of hardware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further the modules and applications described herein as being operated on or executed by the network device may be executed entirely on the network device or alternatively in other aspects separate servers or computer devices may work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless device and the modules and applications executed by network device .

The network device may include computer platform that can transmit and receive data across a wireless or wired network and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform may include a data storage which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data storage may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also may include a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. The computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the network device as well as between the network device and a wireless or wired network. For example in the described aspects the communication module is configured to receive call requests from calling party wireless devices and forward the call requests to called party wireless devices. The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection.

The data storage may include a shared secret module that may implement shared secret recognition logic . In aspects in which shared secret recognition and association is performed at the called communication device the shared secret recognition logic may be operable for recognizing one or more shared secrets in a call request and parsing the payload that includes the shared secrets . Additionally in such aspects the call request may include a trigger and thus the data storage may include trigger recognition logic operable for recognizing one or more triggers in a call request and parsing the payload that includes the trigger s and the associated shared secret s . Additionally in aspects in which the shared secret recognition and association is performed at the called communication device the network device also may include shared secret forwarding logic that is operable for forwarding the parsed payload that includes the shared secret and optional trigger to the called party as part of the call request.

In alternate aspects in which shared secret recognition and association is performed at the network device the shared secret recognition logic may be operable to recognize the shared secret verify the existence of the shared secret in device database such as the shared secret in client information manager and upon verification perform the function or execute the application related to the shared secret. The client information manager is a database stored within the network device or stored at any other network location that is accessible to the network device. The client information manager is a database of client user information and may specifically include shared secret and any related shared secret information associated with each client user in the database.

In certain aspects in which shared secret recognition and association is performed at the network device and the function related to the shared secret is customized caller ID the shared secret module may include caller ID override logic . The caller ID override logic is operable to replace in the payload of the call request the calling device i.e. second communication device caller ID information with caller ID information associated with the shared secret owner i.e. the actual calling party . The caller ID information associated with the shared secret may be retrieved from the client information manager .

In alternate aspects in which shared secret recognition and association is performed at the network device and the function related to the shared secret pertains to remote access communication device management or the like the shared secret module may include remote access device management insertion logic . The remote access device management insertion logic is operable for inserting within the call request payload identification and or instructions for remote access communication device management or the like. In certain aspects the insertion logic may insert an identification such as code within the payload that will be recognizable by the first communication device i.e. the called party and associated with the requisite remote access communication device management or the like. In alternate aspects the insertion logic may insert instructions such as a routine applications applet or the like within the payload that will be executed by the first communication device to perform the requisite remote access communication device management or the like.

The third example illustrates a call request sequence that implements the use of multiple unique triggers to provide shared secret recognition and in some aspects identify the function or application associated with the shared secret. In the third example the call request sequence includes a telephone number of the called party and multiple unique triggers with each trigger followed by the shared secret. In this example each trigger is identified with a unique device function or application. For example entering a first trigger 88 followed by the user s shared secret 009999 may provide for customized caller ID functionality entering a second trigger 89 followed by the user s shared secret 009999 may provide for call priority tagging entering a third trigger 90 followed by the user s shared secret 009999 may provide for an additional function or application to be launched on the called communication device. In this implementation the calling party requires only one shared secret to perform multiple remote functions on the called device. The trigger codes may be stored on the calling device and accessible to the user through a GUI display.

The fourth example illustrates a call request sequence that implement the use of a single trigger and multiple shared secrets each shared secret being associated with a unique function or application on the called device. In the fourth example the call request sequence includes a telephone number of the called party a trigger and multiple unique shared secrets. For example entering a trigger such as 88 or the like notifies the network and the called device that the call request includes one or more shared secrets. The trigger is followed by multiple shared secrets such as first shared secret 009999 associated with customized caller ID functionality second shared secret 009998 associated with a call priority tagging functionality and a third shared secret 009997 associated with an additional function or application to be launched on the called communication device.

It should be noted that the examples of call sequences shown in are not to be considered as limiting in any manner. Other call request sequences that include shared secrets and optional triggers are also contemplated and are included within the concepts of the present aspects. As previously discussed shared secrets and optional triggers are not limited to numerical codes entered on the calling device keypad during call request. Shared secrets may include any secret data shared between parties including but not limited to text data audio data visual data and the like. The trigger may include any input on the calling device that can be communicated along with the call request to notify the network and called device of a forthcoming shared secret.

At Event the communication device receives a call request that includes a call ID number a shared secret and optionally a trigger. The trigger may serve to notify the communication device that the call request includes a shared secret. Additionally a trigger may serve to identify the function or application associated with the shared secret. At Event the communication device may determine the function or application associated with the shared secret or optionally associated with the trigger. In some aspects the use of shared secrets may be limited to one function and therefore no determination of the function or application associated with the shared secret or optional trigger may be required. However in alternate aspects in which the multiple functions or applications are associated with the use of shared secrets the shared secret or trigger may provide information related to the function or application related to the shared secret. For example numeric trigger codes may indicate the function of the shared secret.

At Event the communication device accesses a database such as a contact listing database personal phonebook database or the like to verify that the shared secret is associated with a contact or phonebook entry. At Event once the shared secret has been verified data in the contact listing or phonebook entry is accessed and retrieved in accordance with the determined function or application. For example if customized caller ID functionality is associated with the shared secret or trigger the name or other personal information related to the contact is retrieved for subsequent display on the communication device. Alternatively if call priority tagging is associated with the shared secret or trigger information related to the shared secret such as the priority tag urgent or the like is retrieved for subsequent display on the communication device. In alternate aspects the communication device may be configured to determine the function or application associated with the shared secret or trigger once the device accesses the database and determines any related shared secret information.

At Event the network device receives a call request that includes a call ID number a shared secret and optionally a trigger. The trigger may serve to notify the network device that the call request includes a shared secret. Additionally a trigger may serve to identify the function or application associated with the shared secret. At Event the communication device may determine the function or application associated with the shared secret or optionally associated with the trigger. In some aspects the use of shared secrets may be limited to one function and therefore no determination of the function or application associated with the shared secret or optional trigger may be required. However in alternate aspects in which the multiple functions or applications are associated with the use of shared secrets the shared secret or trigger may provide information related to the function or application related to the shared secret. For example numeric trigger codes may indicate the function of the shared secret.

At Event the communication device accesses a network database such as a client database or the like to verify that the shared secret is associated with a contact or phonebook entry. At Event once the shared secret has been verified data in the client entry is accessed and retrieved in accordance with the determined function or application. For example if customized caller ID functionality is associated with the shared secret or trigger the name or other personal information related to the client is retrieved for subsequent communication to the communication device. Alternatively if call priority tagging is associated with the shared secret or trigger information related to the shared secret such as the priority tag urgent or the like is retrieved for subsequent display on the communication device. In alternate aspects the network device may be configured to determine the function or application associated with the shared secret or trigger once the device accesses the database and determines any related shared secret information.

At Event if the function to be performed is customized caller ID the network device will override the caller ID information on the call request with the caller ID information retrieved from the client database and associated with the shared secret. Additionally if the function to be performed is remote access device management related the network device may insert remote access device management identifiers such as codes or the like in the call request payload or insert instructions such as applications routines applets or the like in the payload of the call request. At Event the call request which includes the customized caller ID information and or remote access device management identifiers or instructions is forwarded to the called communication device.

Thus the describe aspects provide methods devices systems and computer program products for customizing caller ID or performing remote management of device functionality by implementing shared secret exchange between calling and called parties. Customized caller ID provides for a calling party to identify themself regardless of the device they are using to place to call. In addition another function such as call priority tagging provides for the calling party to prioritize the call or otherwise customize a call identification message to the called party. By exchanging shared secrets amongst the calling and called parties the customized caller ID and remote functional management method is secure eliminating the likelihood of unauthorized tampering by unknown parties. Shared secret exchange also provides for authorized callers to remotely access and manage the communication device such as for example remotely locking down the communication device in an off state.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

Thus many modifications and other embodiments of the invention may come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

