---

title: Integration of contact center surveys
abstract: Systems and methods for integrating contact center surveys are provided. In this regard, a representative method comprises: obtaining performance data pertaining to a contact center agent, the agent being designated to assist a customer of the contact center; providing a survey to the customer; receiving survey data responsive to the survey and corresponding to interaction with the customer by the contact center agent; and correlating the performance data with the survey data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07792278&OS=07792278&RS=07792278
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 07792278
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060331
---
Contact center agents communicate with customers in a variety of scenarios. By way of example a customer may contact a contact center in order to receive consumer support services related to a purchased product. In response a contact center agent typically interacts with the customer to acquire enough information so that the customer s requests can be accommodated. Such interaction may be via telephone Internet chat and messenger and or email. As should be understood the training skills and experience of a contact center agent can dramatically affect the manner in which this interaction takes place.

In this regard significant management resources can be devoted to ensuring that contact center agents are properly evaluated and trained. For instance contact center agents typically are evaluated by quality monitoring personnel such as supervisors. These supervisors oftentimes review audio recordings or desktop events of the interactions between the contact center agents and customers resulting in some form of quality scoring by the supervisor. The scoring is indicative of the performance characteristics of the contact center agents and can be used to schedule a contact center agent for training. For example if the scoring indicates that a contact center agent is a substandard performer with respect to a particular skill set the contact center agent can be assigned training for improving that skill set. Thus there remains a need for an actionable contact center survey system and method.

Systems and methods for integrating actionable contact center surveys are provided. In this regard an exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises obtaining performance data pertaining to a contact center agent the agent being designated to assist a customer of the contact center providing a survey to the customer receiving survey data responsive to the survey and corresponding to interaction with the customer by the contact center agent and correlating the performance data with the survey data. Therefore for example if customers communicate dissatisfaction with a specific interaction event policy or process this may be correlated with performance data and or shared with the relevant operating area to ensure a timely response without upsetting more customers.

In an enhancement if for example a customer is dissatisfied the system of the representative method above may transfer the unhappy customer back to a contact center supervisor so that the problem dissatisfaction can be immediately addressed before the conclusion of the customer s interaction with the contact center. This real time actionable intervention based on survey responses allows for a contact center to turn a bad experience into a positive experience.

An exemplary embodiment of a system for integrating contact center surveys comprises a quality monitoring system a data repository and a survey system. The quality monitoring system is operative to obtain performance data pertaining to a contact center agent the agent being designated to assist a customer of the contact center. The data repository is configured to store the performance data obtained by the quality monitoring system. The survey system is operative to provide a survey to the customer to receive survey data responsive to the survey and corresponding to the contact center agent and to provide the survey data to the data repository. The quality monitoring system is further operative to access the data repository and correlate the performance data with the survey data. This therefore allows for immediate insights into threats and opportunities.

In an enhancement the quality monitoring system may further analyze the survey data to identify when customer satisfaction drops below a predefined threshold. This may be done in real time or near real time such as within minutes or hours. Yet in another enhancement the system provides at least one actionable report item or alert for the contact center based on at least the survey data or the correlation of the performance data and the survey data.

Computer readable media also are provided. In this regard an exemplary embodiment of a computer readable medium includes a computer program that comprises computer executable instructions for performing the computer implemented steps of obtaining performance data pertaining to a contact center agent providing a survey to a customer of the contact center agent receiving survey data responsive to the survey and corresponding to the contact center agent and correlating the performance data with the survey data.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

As will be described here with reference to several exemplary embodiments systems and methods for integrating contact center surveys are provided. In this regard some embodiments can potentially provide one or more perceived advantages over conventional contact center operations. By way of example at least some embodiments provide the ability to correlate customer responses with monitoring personnel supervisor scoring. That is customer responses pertaining to the quality of contact center interactions with one or more contact center agents can be obtained. The responses then can be correlated with supervisor scoring of the contact center agents that interact with the customers. In so doing various anomalies can potentially be detected. For instance if customer responses tend to vary dramatically from the supervisor scoring such an anomaly could indicate supervisor scoring bias or latent deficiencies in contact handling procedures. In some embodiments information corresponding to customer responses is obtained by use of a survey that can be provided in various formats such as an interactive voice response IVR survey. In other embodiments various other formats of surveys such as email web based mail or courier based and live agent callback can be used.

Notably the desire to provide a customer with a survey may be based at least in part on historical data associated with an agent. For instance if a particular agent has been experiencing difficulty in a particular skill set such a product knowledge historical data pertaining to this lack of knowledge should be available. This historical data could then be used to provide a customer with a survey that is intended to determine whether the customer s interaction with the agent also indicates a lack of product knowledge. Multiple surveys provided to multiple customers could provide the basis for trend analysis to determine whether the agent was improving in this or other skill sets for example.

Referring now to the drawings is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment of a system for integrating contact center surveys. In particular system involves interaction between contact center agent and a customer via a communication network . Note that network can include one or more of various communication systems including the Internet and PSTN for example. System also incorporates a quality monitoring system that enables a supervisor for example to monitor various aspects of the interaction between the agent and the customer. In addition the quality monitoring system can facilitate scheduling and training of the agents.

A recording system is able to record at least some of the interactions between the customer and one or more of the agents involved in this case agent . For instance the recording system is configured to record audio communications occurring between the customer and agent. In other embodiments various other facets of such an interaction could be recorded. By way of example one or more display screens of data can be captured from the computer that the agent is using during the interaction.

In this embodiment recording of communications is facilitated when the customer is to participate in a survey. That is when a survey is to be provided to the customer for obtaining responses pertaining to the customer s interactions with the contact center agent the recording system ensures that communications associated with those interactions are recorded. In other embodiments recording of communications could take place whether or not a survey is to be provided to a customer. Such recording can be screen e.g. desktop events and or voice audio. However provisions for ensuring that recordings can be correlated with any acquired survey data should be used such as by tagging the recordings and the survey data with a form of identification.

In the embodiment of designation of a particular customer for being provided with a survey as well as providing of the survey itself is facilitated by a survey system representative functionality of which will be described in detail later. Notably however other embodiments could use various other systems and or combinations of systems to facilitate designation of a customer and or administration of such a survey. By way of example a rules engine associated with a quality monitoring system could be used.

In this regard is a flowchart illustrating functionality or method steps that can be performed by the embodiment of the system for integrating contact center surveys of . In particular the functionality may be construed as beginning at block where historical performance data pertaining to a contact center agent is obtained. By way of example such performance data can include data representative of various performance characteristics of an agent such as product knowledge. Such performance data can be obtained by inputs provided to a quality monitoring system such as by a supervisor of the agent.

In block a survey is provided to a customer of the contact center. Notably interaction between the agent and the customer could take place before a survey is given. However pre interaction surveys intra interaction surveys and or post interaction surveys could be provided. In some embodiments the format of the survey could depend at least in part on the time that a survey is given. For example a pre interaction survey given in response to a contact could be provided via an IVR survey. In contrast a post interaction survey could be provided via email for example.

In block survey data responsive to the survey is received. Preferably the survey data includes information pertaining to the customer s interaction with the agent such as data indicating whether the agent appeared to have sufficient product knowledge to answer the customer s questions for example. Additionally or alternatively various other types of information can be obtained.

In block the performance data can be correlated with the survey data. As mentioned before the survey data can be correlated with the performance data for various purposes. By way of example the correlated data can be analyzed to determine whether internal supervisor quality scoring procedures are consistent with customer responses. Notably most conventional contact center monitoring systems permit quality scoring of contact center agents by supervisors. However correlating third party data such as customer responses to surveys has not been utilized to determine whether the internal scoring is an accurate measure of contact center agent performance. Additionally or alternatively processing algorithms can be used to identify scores or elements of scores that seem to be out of sync with the customer perception captured in the survey.

Generally in terms of hardware architecture system includes a processor a memory and one or more user and or communication I O device interface s that are communicatively coupled via a local interface . The local interface can include for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections. The local interface may have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications among the aforementioned components. The processor may be a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory.

The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the recorder a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Examples of suitable commercially available microprocessors are as follows a PA RISC series microprocessor from Hewlett Packard Company an 80 86 or Pentium series microprocessor from Intel Corporation a PowerPC microprocessor from IBM a Sparc microprocessor from Sun Microsystems Inc or a 68xxx series microprocessor from Motorola Corporation.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory as well as various other components can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor . Additionally memory can also include an operating system as well as instructions associated with various subsystems such as a quality monitoring system a recording system and a survey system .

The software in memory may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In this regard a nonexhaustive list of examples of suitable commercially available operating systems is as follows a a Windows operating system available from Microsoft Corporation b a Netware operating system available from Novell Inc. c a Macintosh operating system available from Apple Computer Inc. d a UNIX operating system which is available for purchase from many vendors such as the Hewlett Packard Company Sun Microsystems Inc. and AT T Corporation e a LINUX operating system which is freeware that is readily available on the Internet f a run time Vxworks operating system from WindRiver Systems Inc. or g an appliance based operating system such as that implemented in handheld computers or personal data assistants PDAs e.g. PalmOS available from Palm Computing Inc. and Windows CE available from Microsoft Corporation . The operating system can be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input communication control file and data management memory management and communication control and or related services.

A system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system.

When the system for integrating contact center surveys is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the system pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part is read by the processor perhaps buffered and then executed.

In block the performance data is provided to a data repository. In block the data repository is accessed to obtain survey data associated with the contact center agent. Thereafter such as depicted in block the performance data is correlated with the survey data. By way of example an element of a quality score for an agent corresponding to product knowledge can be correlated with survey data relevant to the perceived level of product knowledge of that agent during an interaction with the customer.

In operation customer connects to a contact center associated with system thereby notifying the CTI of the incoming contact. The recording system and CTI interact to determine whether the interaction e.g. the incoming contact is to be recorded. As will be described in more detail later this determination can be based at least in part on whether a survey is to be provided to the customer. However regardless of whether the recording system is to record the interaction the contact is connected to agent .

In this embodiment at the end of the agent interaction with the customer an instruction is provided to the agent to transfer the contact to the survey system . This is accomplished by functionality associated with the CTI and business rules engine. By way of example an agent involved in the interaction may have received low quality scoring relating to product knowledge. If it is determined that the current interaction involves product knowledge as may be determined by the particular display screens of information that the agent is accessing during the interaction a determination may be made to provide the customer with a survey. Note that such a survey need not be tailored to specifically address historically noted deficiencies in the agent in this case lack of product knowledge although such could be addressed in some embodiments.

Once the contact is transferred the survey system queries the customer about his experience with the contact center such as the interactions with the contact center agent. Responses to the survey are converted to survey data which can be in the form of scaled scores or yes no responses for example. The survey data corresponding to the customer s responses are then provided to the data repository . In some embodiments providing of the survey data to the data repository can be facilitated at least in part by the recording system . Specifically the recording system can be responsible for identifying the survey data so that a correlation can be made between any recording associated with the customer and the survey data obtained from the customer.

Once the survey data has been obtained the quality monitoring system can be utilized for analysis and or review. By way of example processing algorithms can be used to correlate the survey data with other information such as performance data pertaining to the contact center agent associated with the customer that responded to the survey. With respect to reviewing of the data the quality monitoring system can enable a supervisor to access the stored survey data and compare that data to results of agent scoring for example which could have been previously provided to the data repository.

In this regard the functionality may be construed as beginning at block where a determination is made as to whether agent interaction with a customer is nearing completion or is complete. By way of example such a determination can be based on application driven events that are known to occur near the completion of an interaction. In block a determination is made as to whether the customer is to be provided with a survey. In some embodiments an agent can explicitly ask a customer regarding willingness to participate in a survey. In other embodiments an agent may check the status of a customer s response to a survey opt in query or programmatically be notified that the customer is to participate in a survey. That is if a customer has been previously queried regarding willingness to participate in a survey that information can be provided to the agent. By way of example a pop up or other notification can be provided to the agent notifying that agent that the customer is to participate in a survey. In this embodiment once a determination is made that the customer is to participate in a survey the agent manually transfers the contact to the survey such as depicted in block .

After the appropriate steps have been taken to ensure that the obtained data can be correlated the customer is transferred to the survey block . In block the survey is executed with the customer and thereafter block survey data is obtained.

If it is determined in block that a survey is not to be offered the contact can be placed in the agent queue for routing to an available agent such as depicted in block . However if it is determined that a survey is to be offered the process may proceed to block in which a determination can be made as to whether the customer accepted the survey offer. If the customer declined the survey offer the process can proceed as described before with respect to block . However if the customer accepts the survey offer the process can proceed to block .

In block the contact can be designated for a survey. In some embodiments this can include updating information contained with or associated to the contact via CTI or other contact routing entity so that the contact is routed to the survey following agent interaction. Notably transfer of the contact can take place either manually i.e. through agent interaction or automatically whereby the contact would be transferred to the survey once agent interaction has completed. In other embodiments the contact could be placed in a specialized queue to facilitate survey participation. Such would likely be involved in embodiments that provide surveys via a different communication medium than the one used to facilitate the interaction. For instance if an interaction takes place via voice communication and the survey is to be provided via a subsequent email information pertaining to the contact could be placed in an email survey queue.

In addition to providing surveys integrated workforce optimization platforms can also integrate other capabilities in support of a greater customer service strategy 1 Quality Monitoring Contact Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. These five segments can become part of an interwoven and interoperable solution enabling contact centers to transition from reactive cost centers to proactive information rich departments that deliver strategic value to the organization. Workforce optimization is discussed in greater detail in the U.S. Patent Application entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization filed Feb. 22 2006 and assigned Ser. No. 11 359 356 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

It should be noted that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of implementations that may be configured using software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

It should be noted that any of the executable instructions such as those depicted functionally in the accompanying flowcharts can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. By way of example some embodiments may not include a pre contact opt in mechanism. In such an embodiment an agent may determine or be instructed to offer a survey to a customer. The instruction to offer a survey may be an operational procedure where every agent is to offer a survey on every contact for example or an automated one in which the system decides that a survey is to be provided. For example such a system may dynamically decide to offer a survey based on the fact that the contact dealt with payment issues potentially determined by application activity and that agent has shown poor handling of payment issues based on historical quality data. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

