---

title: Dipole antenna projectile with sensor
abstract: A fin-stabilized projectile suitable for launching from a shotgun or similar weapon. The projectile may penetrate easily breakable materials but will not penetrate tougher materials. The projectile may be shot through an easily breakable surface to gain entry to a target location, but further penetration is inhibited. The projectile is equipped with an on board sensor. The halves of the projectile casing form a dipole antenna for transmitting information gathered by the on board sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07581501&OS=07581501&RS=07581501
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07581501
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060531
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties thereof.

The invention relates in general to projectiles and in particular to projectiles equipped with sensors for transmitting data from the projectile to a base station.

There are situations when it is desired to sense remotely an area. The phenomenon that is being sensed may be acoustic waves i.e. to overhear human speech heat chemical presence environmental conditions or other measurable items. The placement of the sensor may be difficult in situations such as urban military combat civilian law enforcement i.e. covert surveillance or hostage rescue operations and civilian firefighter rescue operations. These and other situations require placement of the sensor from a distance. In the past such sensors were manually placed by a human who was subjected to great risk of harm.

The present invention overcomes the risks associated with manual placement of sensors by providing a remote sensing device that may be launched from a tube such as for example a shotgun.

An aspect of the invention is a projectile including a hollow conductive casing including a forward section and a rear section and an insulating ring disposed between the forward section and the rear section to isolate electrically the forward section from the rear section whereby the forward and rear sections comprise a dipole antenna. In an embodiment the forward and rear sections are made from a metal material. The projectile may further include a tail fin disposed aft of the rear section. For sensing purposes at least one sensor is disposed in the conductive casing.

Another aspect of the invention is a projectile including a hollow casing a tail fin disposed on an aft end of the hollow casing and an axial rod disposed on a longitudinal axis of the projectile where one end of the axial rod protrudes outward from a forward section of the hollow casing and another end of the axial rod connects to the tail fin. The projectile may further include a relatively soft ductile material that fills a volume in a forward end of the forward section and a relatively hard dense material that fills a volume adjacent to and aft of the relatively soft material. At least one sensor may be disposed in the casing.

The present invention is a fin stabilized projectile suitable for launching from for example a 12 gauge shotgun 37 mm or 40 mm gun or a similar weapon. The projectile is designed to penetrate some easily breakable materials such as a double pane window but to not penetrate tougher materials such as walls. In this example the projectile may be shot through a window to gain entry to a target location but further penetration is inhibited. The projectile is designed to be launched from a distance of about 100 feet and have a radio frequency transmitting range of about 300 feet. The ability of remote emplacement reduces the risk to operating personnel.

Referring now to the an embodiment of a projectile in accordance with the invention includes a hollow conductive casing including a forward section and a rear section . An insulating ring is disposed at approximately the midpoint between the forward section and the rear section to insulate electrically the forward section from the rear section so that the forward and rear sections comprise that is form a dipole antenna. Forward and rear sections must be electrically conductive and therefore may be made of a metal material. An exemplary overall length for the projectile is about one and a half inches.

The projectile further includes a tail fin disposed aft of the rear section . An axial rod such as a threaded screw or bolt is disposed on the longitudinal axis X X of the projectile . One end of the axial rod protrudes slightly outwards from the forward section . This end may have for example a shape of a rounded end. The other end of the axial rod connects to the tail fin using for example threads.

It is important that the forward and rear sections be electrically insulated from each other. This electrical isolation may be accomplished in different ways although the insulating ring is present in each embodiment. In an embodiment the tail fin is made of an electrically insulating material so that the axial rod may be made of a conductive material such as a metal and may contact forward section where rod protrudes outward from forward section . An optional insulating bushing or washer shown in dashed lines in the may surround rod so that tail fin may be made of a conductive material. In another embodiment the axial rod may be made of an insulating material. In yet another embodiment an optional insulating bushing or washer shown in dashed lines in the FIGURE may be used to prevent rod from contacting forward section .

At least one sensor is disposed in the conductive casing for example in the rear section . The sensor may be for example an acoustic sensor microphone a heat sensor a chemical sensor or other sensor. Known radio frequency electronics are connected to the sensors and the dipole antenna connection not shown for transmitting information received from the sensors . The electronics include a power supply not shown such as a lithium battery that is activated by an inertial switch. The projectile is internally potted with for example epoxy to provide inertial damping for the internal components. The projectile may be color coded to associate it with a fixed frequency for the radio transmitter. In an embodiment the projectile is coated with an insulating material such as TEFLON to maintain insulation between the front and rear sections in wet electrically conductive environments.

The radio frequency electronics include a transmitter circuit that matches the dipole. The transmitter circuit has two feed wires not shown that connect to dipole antenna sections respectively 180 degrees out of phase. In an exemplary embodiment a location of the feed wires is on either side of the insulating ring and close to the insulating ring . Further the matching transmitter circuit may be placed at the ring . However due to the small size of the device placement of the RF components may not be critical.

A relatively soft ductile material fills the volume in the forward end of the forward section and a relatively hard dense material fills the volume adjacent to and aft of the relatively soft ductile material . An example of material is a dense hard metal alloy such as a copper alloy or steel generally with a yield stress of several million psi. A relatively high density is needed to ensure projectile flight stability.

An exemplary material is one with a relatively low yield stress and a relatively high ductility so that it deforms upon first impact and the deformation is permanent. High ductility is indicated by relatively high values of elongation at fracture and reduction in area observed during standard tensile tests. It is intended that material may permanently deform and increase its diameter upon penetration of a barrier such as a window thereby reducing the likelihood that the projectile may penetrate a second barrier such as an internal wall.

In use the projectile is generally launched from a gun such as a 12 gauge shotgun into an area that one wishes to monitor with the sensors . The projectile will penetrate for example a glass window but will not penetrate a wall or floor because of the structural nose features. An inertial sensor may activate the power supply for the electronics . The sensors begin sensing and the electronics transmit the sensors signals via the dipole antenna sections to a remote listening location.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

