---

title: Methods for inhibiting angiogenesis
abstract: Novel methods for inhibiting angiogenesis and treating diseases associated with angiogenesis are described. The methods may comprise administering to a patient an effective amount of a 1,2-dithiol-3-thione derivative or metabolite thereof. Preferred compounds for use in the methods include 5-(2-pyrazinyl)-4methyl-1,2-dithiol-3-thione (Oltipraz) and its metabolites.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07452884&OS=07452884&RS=07452884
owner: Fox Chase Cancer Center
number: 07452884
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060915
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 262 237 filed Oct. 1 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 199 122 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 326 577 filed Oct. 2 2001 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was funded in part by the National Institutes of Health. The United States government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to novel chemotherapeutic methods. More particularly the present invention relates to novel methods for inhibiting angiogenesis by using derivatives or metabolites of 1 2 dithiol 3 thiones.

Throughout this application various publications are referenced by arabic numerals within parentheses. Full citations for these publications may be found at the end of the specification immediately preceding the claims. The disclosure of these publications in their entireties are hereby incorporated by reference herein to more fully describe the state of the art as known to those skilled therein as of the date of the invention described and claimed herein.

Epidemiological and experimental evidence has shown that consumption of diets high in certain vegetables such as cabbage and other members of the family Cruciferae may reduce the incidence of certain cancers. These vegetables typically contain dithiolthiones which are sulfur containing compounds that have been associated with a number of biochemical changes. The most notable of these changes include increases in the activities of enzymes catalyzing the inactivation of toxic compounds including carcinogens and increases in tissue reduced glutathione GSH levels 10 . Certain synthetic dithiolthiones for example substituted 1 2 dithiol 3 thiones are also known to be useful medicinally as antischistosomal agents choleretics and to stimulate salivary secretion 6 8 10 . The preparation and use of such compounds as pharmaceutical compositions is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 138 487 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Oltipraz 5 2 pyrazinyl 4 methyl 1 2 dithiol 3 thione is a synthetic dithiolthione with physiochemical properties similar to those of dithiolthione antioxidants typically found in cruciferous vegetables 6 . Based upon these properties Oltipraz and other 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivatives have been studied for use as potential chemopreventive agents 10 15 . Chemoprevention refers to the use of natural or synthetic agents to inhibit carcinogenesis. The development of chemopreventive agents is focused on identifying agents that prevent or inhibit the intracellular changes that may induce tumor formation or lead to the formation of pre neoplastic lesions. This may be contrasted with the development of chemotherapeutic agents which is focused upon identifying agents that may lead to the regression of existent neoplasms and or prevent the further growth or metastasis of tumors. Chemopreventive agents may work for example to detoxify carcinogenic compounds or to protect genetic material from changes that may be associated with the initiation of cancer. Preclinical evaluation of Oltipraz has demonstrated its broad efficacy in preventing carcinogen induced rodent tumors in multiple organ sites including the breast bladder colon stomach liver lymph nodes lung pancreas and skin 6 7 . Clinical studies on the initial use of Oltipraz as an anti schistosomal agent 8 and in more recent phase I and II trials in patient populations susceptible for cancer of the colon breast liver and lung reviewed in Ref. 7 have also revealed its minimal toxicity in man.

The significant chemopreventive activity of Oltipraz in vivo 7 and in vitro 9 has been attributed primarily to its pronounced induction of a battery of phase II detoxification enzymes 10 13 and its activity in decreasing the formation of DNA carcinogen adducts in vitro and in vivo 11 14 16 . Most of the chemoprevention protocols tested to date have involved concomitant exposure of the test subject to both carcinogen and Oltipraz 6 . Complete protection against aflatoxin Bhas been achieved when Oltipraz is fed both before and during carcinogen administration. However administration of the drug after exposure to aflatoxin Bwas observed to have no chemopreventive effect 6 . The prevention of initiation of azoxymethane induced colon carcinogenesis by Oltipraz has been shown to be nearly equi effective regardless of whether the drug was administered during or after carcinogen administration further suggesting that Oltipraz may inhibit the induction of cancer by more than one mechanism.

To date little if any evidence exists to suggest that substituted 1 2 dithiol 3 thiones such as Oltipraz may be useful as chemotherapeutic agents for treating neoplastic conditions however. Although it has been shown in the Syrian hamster model of N nitrosobis 2 oxopropyl amine BOP induced ductal pancreatic carcinoma that concurrent administration of BOP and Oltipraz may lead to a prolonged survival rate in animals that develop BOP induced metastatic disease 7 there has previously been no evidence to suggest that compounds such as Oltipraz may be used therapeutically to inhibit tumor growth or metastasis or to induce regression of established tumors.

Angiogenesis the formation of new blood vessels out of pre existing capillaries is a sequence of events that is of key importance in a broad array of physiologic and pathologic processes. Normal tissue growth such as in embryonic development wound healing and the menstrual cycle is characterized by dependence on new vessel formation for the supply of oxygen and nutrients as well as removal of waste products. A large number of different and unrelated diseases are also associated with formation of new vasculature. Among certain pathologies are conditions in which angiogenesis is low and should be enhanced to improve disease conditions. More frequently however excessive angiogenesis is an important characteristic of various pathologies including pathologies characterized or associated with an abnormal or uncontrolled proliferation of cells. Pathologies which involve excessive angiogenesis include for example cancer both solid and hematologic tumors cardiovascular diseases such as atherosclerosis and restenosis chronic inflammation rheumatoid arthritis Crohn s disease diabetes diabetic retinopathy psoriasis endometriosis neovascular glaucoma and adiposity 3 . These conditions may benefit from chemotherapeutic inhibition of angiogenesis.

Generally speaking the angiogenic process entails the proliferation and migration of a normally quiescent endothelium the controlled proteolysis of the pericellular matrix and the synthesis of new extracellular matrix components by developing capillaries. The establishment of new intra and intercellular contacts and the morphological differentiation of endothelial cells to capillary like tubular networks provide support for their subsequent maturation branching remodeling and selective regression to form a highly organized functional microvascular network. The autocrine paracrine and amphicrine interactions of the vascular endothelium with its surrounding stromal components as well as with the pro angiogenic and angiostatic cytokines and growth factors orchestrating physiologic angiogenesis are normally tightly regulated both spatially and temporally 1 4 .

Angiogenesis is crucial to the growth of neoplastic tissues 4 . For more than 100 years tumors have been observed to be more vascular than normal tissues. Several experimental studies have suggested that both primary tumor growth and metastasis require neovascularization 1 . In contrast to the well orchestrated process described above for normal tissue growth the pathologic angiogenesis necessary for active tumor growth is generally sustained and persistent with the initial acquisition of the angiogenic phenotype being a common mechanism for the development of a variety of solid and hematopoietic tumor types 1 4 . Tumors that are unable to recruit and sustain a vascular network typically remain dormant as asymptomatic lesions in situ 4 . Metastasis is also angiogenesis dependent for a tumor cell to metastasize successfully it generally must gain access to the vasculature in the primary tumor survive the circulation arrest in the microvasculature of the target organ exit from this vasculature grow in the target organ and induce angiogenesis at the target site. Thus angiogenesis appears to be necessary at the beginning as well as the completion of the metastatic cascade 4 .

The criticality of angiogenesis to the growth and metastasis of neoplasms thus provides an optimal potential target for chemotherapeutic efforts. Appropriate anti angiogenic agents may act directly or indirectly to influence tumor associated angiogenesis either by delaying its onset i.e. blocking an angiogenic switch or by blocking the sustained and focal neovascularization that is characteristic of many tumor types. Anti angiogenesis therapies directed against the tumor associated endothelium and the multiple molecular and cellular processes and targets implicated in sustained pathologic angiogenesis are being actively evaluated for their safety and efficacy in multiple clinical trials reviewed in Ref. 1 4 and 5 . However there has been limited success to date with the discovery and or identification of safe and or effective anti angiogenic agents.

Accordingly new and or better anti angiogenic agents and or methods for inhibiting angiogenesis are needed. The present invention is directed to these as well as other important ends.

The present invention is directed in part to novel methods for inhibiting angiogenesis. Specifically in one embodiment there are provided novel methods for inhibiting angiogenesis comprising administering to a patient an effective amount of a compound of the following formula I 

Ar is a monocyclic or bicyclic aryl group or a monocyclic or bicyclic heteroaryl group containing 1 to 3 O S or N R heteroatoms and

Rand Rare independently hydrogen or an alkyl group or a stereoisomer prodrug metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate or N oxide thereof.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to methods of inhibiting angiogenesis comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of a 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivative or a metabolite thereof.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to methods for inhibiting the growth or metastasis of a tumor comprising administering to a patient an effective amount of an anti angiogenic agent wherein the anti angiogenic agent comprises a compound of the following formula I 

Ar is a monocyclic or bicyclic aryl group or a monocyclic or bicyclic heteroaryl group containing 1 to 3 O S or N R heteroatoms and

Rand Rare independently hydrogen or an alkyl group or a stereoisomer prodrug metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate or N oxide thereof.

Still another embodiment of the invention relates to methods for inhibiting the growth or metastasis of a tumor comprising administering to a patient an effective amount of an anti angiogenic agent wherein the anti angiogenic agent comprises a 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivative or a metabolite thereof.

Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to methods for treating a disease associated with angiogenesis comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of an anti angiogenic agent wherein said anti angiogenic agent comprises a compound of the following formula I 

Ar is a monocyclic or bicyclic aryl group or a monocyclic or bicyclic heteroaryl group containing 1 to 3 O S or N R heteroatoms and

Rand Rare independently hydrogen or an alkyl group or a stereoisomer prodrug metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate or N oxide thereof.

A further embodiment of the invention relates to methods for treating a disease or disorder associated with angiogenesis comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of an anti angiogenic agent wherein said anti angiogenic agent comprises a 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivative or a metabolite thereof.

These and other aspects of the invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description.

As employed above and throughout the disclosure the following terms unless otherwise indicated shall be understood to have the following meanings.

 Alkyl refers to an aliphatic hydrocarbon group which may be straight branched or cyclic having from 1 to about 10 carbon atoms in the chain and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges therein. Branched refers to an alkyl group in which a lower alkyl group such as methyl ethyl or propyl is attached to a linear alkyl chain. In certain preferred embodiments the alkyl group is a C Calkyl group i.e. a branched or linear alkyl group having from 1 to about 4 carbons. In other preferred embodiments the alkyl group is a C Calkyl group i.e. a branched or linear alkyl group having from 1 to about 3 carbons. Exemplary alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl and decyl.

 Aryl refers to an aromatic carbocyclic radical containing from about 6 to about 10 carbons and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges therein. The aryl group may be optionally substituted with one or two or more aryl group substituents. Preferred aryl group substituents include halo alkyl alkoxy mercapto amino monoalkylamino alkylthio dialkylamino pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl or 4 alkylpiperazinyl groups. Exemplary aryl groups include monocyclic groups such as phenyl and bicyclic groups such as naphthyl.

 Heteroaryl refers to an aromatic carbocyclic radical containing from about 4 to about 10 members and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges therein wherein one or more of the members is an element other than carbon for example nitrogen oxygen or sulfur. The heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted with one or two or more heteroaryl group substituents including the aryl group substituents described above. Exemplary heteroaryl groups include monocylic groups such as pyridyl and bicyclic groups such as indolyl.

 Alkoxy refers to an alkyl O group where alkyl is as previously described. Exemplary alkoxy groups include for example methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy and heptoxy.

 Alkylthio refers to an alkyl S group wherein alkyl is as previously described. Exemplary alkylthio groups include methylthio ethylthio i propylthio and heptylthio.

 Monoalkylamino refers to an NHR group wherein R is an alkyl group as previously described. Exemplary monoalkylamino groups include methylamino and ethylamino.

 Dialkylamino refers to an NRR group wherein each of R and R is independently an alkyl group as previously described. Exemplary dialkylamino groups include ethylmethylamino dimethylamino and diethylamino.

 Effective amount refers to an amount of a compound as described herein that may be therapeutically effective to inhibit growth or metastasis of an existing tumor. Such therapeutically effective activity may be achieved for example by contacting cells tissues and or receptors with compounds of the present invention.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable refers to those compounds materials compositions and or dosage forms which are within the scope of sound medical judgment suitable for contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity irritation allergic response or other problem complications commensurate with a reasonable benefit risk ratio.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salts refer to derivatives of the disclosed compounds wherein the parent compound is modified by making acid or base salts thereof. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts include but are not limited to mineral or organic acid salts of basic residues such as amines alkali or organic salts of acidic residues such as carboxylic acids and the like. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the conventional non toxic salts or the quaternary ammonium salts of the parent compound formed for example from non toxic inorganic or organic acids. For example such conventional non toxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric sulfamic phosphoric nitric and the like and the salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic propionic succinic glycolic stearic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic pamoic maleic hydroxymaleic phenylacetic glutamic benzoic salicylic sulfanilic 2 acetoxybenzoic fumaric toluenesulfonic methanesulfonic ethane disulfonic oxalic isethionic and the like.

Certain acidic or basic compounds of the present invention may exist as zwitterions. All forms of the compounds including free acid free base and zwitterions are contemplated to be within the scope of the present invention.

In the formulas described and claimed herein it is intended that when any symbol appears more than once in a particular formula or substituent its meaning in each instance is independent of the other.

 Metabolite refers to any substance resulting from chemical changes involved in the processes of growth and repair in a living organism including the anabolic and catabolic processes.

In certain embodiments the present invention is directed to methods for inhibiting angiogenesis and or inhibiting the growth or metastasis of a tumor. As used herein the term inhibit means that the amount of tumor growth or metastasis and or the occurrence of angiogenesis in patients that have received a compound as described herein may be desirably reduced as compared to patients that have not received that compound. Thus in preferred form the inhibitory methods of the present invention comprise administering to a patient an effective amount of an anti angiogenic agent. The term anti angiogenic agent as used herein refers to compounds which may inhibit angiogenesis.

In other embodiments the invention is directed to methods for treating a disease or disorder associated with angiogenesis. These methods may preferably include the step of identifying a patient having such a disease including patients who would benefit from the treatment methods described herein. Diseases or disorders associated with angiogenesis include for example conditions in which angiogenesis plays a role in the pathology or progression of the condition such that inhibition of angiogenesis in a patient having such a condition may delay or prevent the further progression of the condition or lead to remission or regression of the disease state. Such conditions are frequently characterized by or associated with abnormal cellular proliferation and include for example neoplastic diseases. As used herein the term treating a disease or disorder refers to the administration of agents intended to limit the extent progression and or severity of a condition in a patient as compared to patients that have not been so treated. As used herein the term neoplastic disease refers to any condition characterized by the presence of an aberrant growth of abnormal cells or tissue including but not limited to all cancers and tumors whether benign or malignant. Treating neoplastic disease refers to the administration of a chemotherapeutic agent that will inhibit the further growth or metastasis of any neoplastic tissue that may exist in a patient and or stimulate regression of such neoplasms including reducing the size and or number of such neoplasms and or inducing the death of neoplastic cells.

In preferred embodiments the present methods involve administering to a patient a 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivative or a metabolite thereof. The term 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivative as used herein refers to a compound which includes a 1 2 dithiol 3 thione moiety namely 

Ar is a monocyclic or bicyclic aryl group or a monocyclic or bicyclic heteroaryl group containing 1 to 3 O S or N R heteroatoms and

Rand Rare independently hydrogen or an alkyl group or a stereoisomer prodrug metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt hydrate or N oxide thereof.

In the above compound of formula I Ar is a monocyclic or bicyclic aryl group or a monocyclic or bicyclic heteroaryl group. Preferred aryl groups include phenyl and naphthyl with phenyl being more preferred. Preferred heteroaryl groups contain 1 to 3 O S or N R heteroatoms. Even more preferred heteroaryl groups contain 1 to 2 N R heteroatoms. In particularly preferred embodiments Ar is a monocyclic heteroaryl group selected from the group consisting of pyridyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl and pyrazinyl with pyrazinyl being especially preferred.

In a particularly preferred embodiment the compound of formula I is 5 2 pyrazinyl 4 methyl 1 2 dithiol 3 thione Oltipraz .

The 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivatives useful in the methods of the present invention are preferably anti schistosomal agents. The term anti schistosomal agent as used herein refers to compounds which may inhibit schistosomiasis.

In an alternate embodiment the methods of the present invention may involve administering to a patient a metabolite of a 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivative. Oltipraz is extensively metabolized in vivo 26 . As many as thirteen metabolites of Oltipraz have been identified and several have been found to be just as active as the parent compound 7 33 .

In the above compound of formula II Xis C R or N R in which y is an integer 1 or 2 and n is an integer 0 or 1. Preferably Xis N.

In the above compound of formula II Xand Xare each independently O S O where x is an integer 0 1 or 2 or N R heteroatoms. Preferably Xand Xare S .

In the above compound of formula II Xis C R or C O in which y is an integer 1 or 2. Preferably Xis C R .

In the above compound of formula II the dashed line represents a single or double bond depending on the particular definitions selected for Xand X.

In the above compound of formula II Ris hydrogen alkyl the residue of glucuronic acid i.e. a chemical group or moiety which is derived from glucuronic acid or the radical

Also in the above compound of formula II R R Rand Rare each independently hydrogen or alkyl. Preferably R Rare alkyl with methyl being particularly preferred. Preferably Rand Rare hydrogen.

In particularly preferred embodiments the compound of formula II is selected from the following compounds 

As stated above the present invention is based inter alia on the surprising and unexpected discovery that 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivatives and or metabolites thereof are potent and effective anti angiogenic agents. Thus the compounds described herein may be useful in the treatment and or inhibition of diseases or disorders associated with angiogenesis. Disease conditions or disorders which may benefit from the inhibition of angiogenesis include cancer cardiovascular diseases such as atherosclerosis and restenosis chronic inflammation rheumatoid arthritis Crohn s disease diabetes diabetic retinopathy psoriasis endometriosis ocular disorders retinopathy macular degeneration neovascular glaucoma and adiposity 3 . Additionally the methods for inhibiting angiogenesis as described herein are particularly useful for inhibiting the growth and or metastasis of a tumor and for treating a patient having a neoplastic disease. Types of tumors which may benefit from treatment with anti angiogenic agents include a variety of solid tumors including gliomas lipomas hemangiomas hemangioblastomas papillomas melanomas carcinomas lymphomas and sarcomas of multiple tissue and organ types as well as a variety of hematological malignancies in which angiogenesis has been implicated including acute myeloid leukemia AML acute lymphocytic leukemia ALL chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia CML and multiple myeloma.

The compounds employed in the methods of the present invention may exist in prodrug form. As used herein the term prodrug is intended to include any covalently bonded carriers which release the active parent drug according to formulas I or II or other formulas or compounds employed in the methods of the present invention in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a mammalian subject. Since prodrugs are known to enhance numerous desirable qualities of pharmaceuticals e.g. solubility bioavailability manufacturing etc. the compounds employed in the present methods may if desired be delivered in prodrug form. Thus the present invention contemplates methods of delivering prodrugs. Prodrugs of the compounds employed in the present invention may be prepared by modifying functional groups present in the compound in such a way that the modifications are cleaved either in routine manipulation or in vivo to the parent compound.

Accordingly prodrugs include for example compounds described herein in which a hydroxy thiol amino or carboxy group is bonded to any group that when the prodrug is administered to a mammalian subject cleaves to form a free hydroxyl thiol free amino or carboxylic acid respectively. Examples include but are not limited to acetate formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol thiol and amine functional groups and alkyl carbocyclic aryl and alkylaryl esters such as methyl ethyl propyl iso propyl butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl cyclopropyl phenyl benzyl and phenethyl esters and the like.

The compounds employed in the methods of the present invention may be prepared in a number of ways well known to those skilled in the art. The compounds can be synthesized for example by the methods described below or variations thereon as appreciated by the skilled artisan. All processes disclosed in association with the present invention are contemplated to be practiced on any scale including milligram gram multigram kilogram multikilogram or commercial industrial scale.

As discussed in detail above compounds employed in the present methods may contain one or more asymmetrically substituted carbon atoms and may be isolated in optically active or racemic forms. Thus all chiral diastereomeric racemic forms and all geometric isomeric forms of a structure are intended unless the specific stereochemistry or isomeric form is specifically indicated. It is well known in the art how to prepare and isolate such optically active forms. For example mixtures of stereoisomers may be separated by standard techniques including but not limited to resolution of racemic forms normal reverse phase and chiral chromatography preferential salt formation recrystallization and the like or by chiral synthesis either from chiral starting materials or by deliberate synthesis of target chiral centers.

As will be readily understood functional groups present may contain protecting groups during the course of synthesis. Protecting groups are known per se as chemical functional groups that can be selectively appended to and removed from functionalities such as hydroxyl groups and carboxyl groups. These groups are present in a chemical compound to render such functionality inert to chemical reaction conditions to which the compound is exposed. Any of a variety of protecting groups may be employed with the present invention. Preferred protecting groups include the benzyloxycarbonyl group and the tert butyloxycarbonyl group. Other preferred protecting groups that may be employed in accordance with the present invention may be described in Greene T. W. and Wuts P. G. M. 2d. Ed. Wiley Sons 1991.

1 2 Dithiol 3 thione derivative compounds according to the present invention may be synthesized employing methods taught for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 138 487 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Metabolites of 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivative compounds useful in the methods according to the present invention may be synthesized employing methods taught for example in WO 97 03055 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The compounds employed in the methods of the present invention may be administered by any means that results in the contact of the active agent with the agent s site of action in the body of a patient. The compounds may be administered by any conventional means available for use in conjunction with pharmaceuticals either as individual therapeutic agents or in a combination of therapeutic agents. For example they may be administered as the sole active agent in a pharmaceutical composition or they can be used in combination with other therapeutically active ingredients. Other suitable therapeutically active ingredients include for example analgesics anti infectives anti allergics hormones genetic materials peptides beta agonists steroids cholinergic agents anti cholinergic agents 5 lipoxygenase inhibitors leukotriene inhibitors anti neoplastic agents antibiotics anti tumor drugs radiation sensitizers thrombolytic agents anti histamines anti coagulants anti inflammatories hormones growth factors and mitotic inhibitors.

The compounds are preferably combined with a pharmaceutical carrier selected on the basis of the chosen route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice as described for example in Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. 1980 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Compounds of the present invention can be administered to a mammalian host in a variety of forms adapted to the chosen route of administration e.g. orally or parenterally. Parenteral administration in this respect includes administration by the following routes intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous rectal intraocular intrasynovial transepithelial including transdermal ophthalmic sublingual and buccal topically including ophthalmic dermal ocular rectal and nasal inhalation via insufflation aerosol. The compounds may also be injected directly into a tumor mass.

The active compound may be orally administered for example with an inert diluent or with an assimilable edible carrier or it may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules or it may be compressed into tablets or it may be incorporated directly with the food of the diet. For oral therapeutic administration the active compound may be incorporated with excipient and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers and the like. Such compositions and preparations should preferably contain at least about 0.1 of active compound. The percentage of the compositions and preparations may of course be varied and may conveniently be for example from about 2 to about 6 of the weight of the unit. The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is preferably such that a suitable dosage will be obtained. Preferred compositions or preparations according to the present invention may be prepared so that an oral dosage unit form contains from about 0.1 to about 1000 mg of active compound and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and specific amounts therein.

The tablets troches pills capsules and the like may also contain one or more of the following a binder such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch or gelatin an excipient such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate a sweetening agent such as sucrose lactose or saccharin or a flavoring agent such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry flavoring. When the dosage unit form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the dosage unit. For instance tablets pills or capsules may be coated with shellac sugar or both. A syrup or elixir may contain the active compound sucrose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course any material used in preparing any dosage unit form is preferably pharmaceutically pure and substantially non toxic in the amounts employed. In addition the active compound may be incorporated into sustained release preparations and formulations.

The active compound may also be administered parenterally or intraperitoneally. Solutions of the active compound as a free base or a pharmacologically acceptable salt can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropylcellulose. A dispersion can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations may contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include for example sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form is preferably sterile and fluid to provide easy syringability. It is preferably stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and is preferably preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier may be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycol and the like suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of a dispersion and by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms may be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions may be achieved by the use of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions may be prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions may be prepared by incorporating the sterilized active ingredient into a sterile vehicle that contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation may include vacuum drying and the freeze drying technique which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from the previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

The therapeutic compounds of this invention may be administered to a patient alone or in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As noted above the relative proportions of active ingredient and carrier may be determined for example by the solubility and chemical nature of the compound chosen route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice.

The dosage of the compounds of the present invention that will be most suitable will vary with the form of administration the particular compound chosen and the physiological characteristics of the particular patient under treatment. Generally small dosages may be used initially and if necessary increased by small increments until the desired effect under the circumstances is reached. The therapeutic human dosage may generally range from about 0.1 mg to about 500 mg kg of body weight per day and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and specific dosages therein. Alternatively the therapeutic human dosage may be from about 0.5 mg to about 50 g or higher and all combinations and subcombinations of ranges and specific dosages therein and may be administered in several different dosage units from once to several times a day. Generally speaking oral administration may require higher dosages.

The invention is further demonstrated in the following examples. All of the examples are actual examples. The examples are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Cell Lines and Reagents. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells HUVEC were obtained from Clonetics San Diego Calif. and cultured in endothelial cell basal medium EBM Clonetics with 2 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum Gibco Grand Island N.Y. 50 g ml endothelial cell growth supplement 50 mg ml heparin 10 mM HEPES and 2 mM L glutamine. Cells between passages 3 and 8 were used as described below for in vitro capillary tube assays. Porcine aortic endothelial cells PAEC were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection ATCC Rockville Md. and grown in Ham s F 12 medium with 100 o fetal bovine serum and supplements 17 and used between passages 3 and 5 as described below. The SVR angiosarcoma cell line was obtained from the ATCC and maintained as described 18 . Cells were MAP 16 and mycoplasma tested by a commercial laboratory Bio Reliance Corp. Rockville Md. and deemed suitable for in vivo studies.

Oltipraz was obtained from Rhone Poulenc Vitry sur Seine France and stored in powdered form in an amber vial at ambient temperature prior to reconstitution in dimethylsulfoxide DMSO for in vitro studies or Tween propylene glycol Tw PG 1 1 vol vol for oral administration to mice. The anti angiogenic agent TNP 470 19 was obtained from Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd. Osaka Japan and stored dry at 20 C. Suspensions of TNP470 in 5 ethanol and 5 arabic gum in sterile saline were prepared as described 20 prior to oral administration to mice.

Animals. Female athymic nu nu mice 6 8 weeks old Charles River Wilmington Mass. were maintained 5 cage in microisolator units on a standard sterilizable laboratory diet Teklad Labchow Harlan Teklad Madison Wis. . Animals were housed under humidity and temperature controlled conditions and the light dark cycle was set at 12 h intervals. Mice 22 24 g were quarantined one week prior to experimental manipulation. Male Sprague Dawley rats 250 300 g were obtained from Charles River and housed in a conventional vivarium facility. Male ICR H mice 25 g were purchased from Taconic Farms Germantown N.Y. and housed at Fox Chase Cancer Center under standard conditions. All in vivo studies were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees of the respective institutions.

Anti angiogenic Activity of Oltipraz on Microvessel Growth in Rat Aortic Ring Explant Cultures Ex Vivo.

Rat aortic ring explant cultures were prepared by a modification of protocols described previously 22 24 . This ex vivo model is particularly useful to study microvessel growth maturation and remodeling events in the angiogenic process and the role of endothelial cell adventitial cell interactions in these events 22 24 . Briefly male Sprague Dawley rats 250 g were euthanized with COand their thoracic aortas were removed aseptically and carefully to avoid damaging the vessel wall. Aortas were rinsed in serum free EBM Clonetics the surrounding adventitia removed surgically and the cleaned vessel cut into 1 2 mm concentric rings. Each ring was embedded in freshly prepared rat tail collagen as detailed 24 . Following gelation for 30 min at 37 C. collagen gel cultures were transferred to 16 mm wells 4 well NUNC dishes each containing 0.5 ml of serum free EBM. Oltipraz was dissolved in DMSO and mixed with serum free EBM at final concentrations of 0.4 M 4 M 40 M and 100 M immediately prior to the addition of replacement of media to collagen embedded aortic ring explant cultures. The final DMSO concentration in treated and control cultures was 0.02 . Cultures were incubated at 35.5 C. in a humidified COatmosphere and the media replaced daily over the course of the 8 to 10 day studies. Visual counts of microvessel outgrowths from replicate explant cultures n 4 were done under bright field microscopy following an established protocol 24 . Experiments were done 3 times and microvessel counts in Oltipraz treated and control cultures were analyzed by one way ANOVA and the Student Newman Keuls multiple comparison test with p

The dose related effects of Oltipraz on microvessel growth in rat aortic ring explant cultures embedded in collagen gels are shown in . Angiogenesis in this model is a self limiting physiological process mediated in response to the injury of the aortic dissection process and occurring in the absence of exogenous addition of serum VEGF or other angiogenic cytokines to the culture medium 29 30 . This assay enables a quantitative assessment of microvessel growth branching and remodeling and vessel regression in an explant culture system in which endothelial celladventitial cell interactions critical for angiogenesis in vivo can be effectively modeled in an ex vivo setting. As shown in administration of 40 M and 100 M Oltipraz inhibited microvessel growth by 50 p

In order to evaluate the potential anti angiogenic activity of Oltipraz in a bioassay utilizing human endothelial cells its ability to inhibit capillary tube formation by HUVECs grown on a Matrigel synthetic extracellular matrix was examined in vitro by a modification of methods described previously 21 22 . This assay models several critical steps in the earlier phases of an in vivo angiogenic response including endothelial cell adhesion basement membrane proteolysis and the proliferation migration and differentiation of endothelial cells into a network of capillary tube like structures events preceding the formation of new functional microvessels in vivo 21 22 .

Forty eight well Nunclon plates Fisher Scientific Malvern Pa. were coated with Matrigel Collaborative Research Bedford Mass. 200 l at 10 mg ml and incubated at 37 C. for 30 min to promote gelling. HUVECs were cultured in EBM Clonetics with 2 fetal bovine serum Gibco and cells between passages 3 and 8 were seeded at 3 10cells in 200 l of medium in each of the Matrigel coated wells. Oltipraz was dissolved in DMSO and added to the media in the Matrigel coated wells at the same time as HUVECs at final concentrations of 4 M 40 M and 100 M based upon its aqueous solubility and previously published data 9 13 15 . The final DMSO concentration in the wells was 0.02 . Following an 18 h incubation at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified atmosphere HUVECs were aspirated of media fixed and stained using a modified Wright Giemsa staining protocol according to the manufacturer s recommendations Diff Quik Stain Set Baxter Healthcare Corp. McGraw Park EL . Complete capillary tube networks within a designated area of a low magnification 10 field were counted under light microscopy and the data were expressed as the percent of complete capillary tube formation relative to untreated HUVEC control cultures incubated under the same conditions. All assays were done in quadruplicate in three independent experiments. Statistical analysis of inhibition of capillary tube formation relative to control cultures was done by the Dunnet s Multiple Comparison test with p

In Vivo Anti Angiogenic Activity of Orally Administered Oltipraz in the PAEC Matrigel Plug Assay in Nude Mice.

One approach to the study of angiogenesis in vivo has been the evaluation of neovascularization into biocompatible polymer matrices containing known angiogenic factor s or cell types implanted subcutaneously in vivo. This approach has provided a rapid and quantitative means to evaluate the dose related induction or inhibition of angiogenesis by a variety of stimuli relative to untreated control matrix implants 25 27 29 . The in vivo inhibition of angiogenesis by orally administered Oltipraz was evaluated in a modified polymer implant assay utilizing PAEC and VEGF in Matrigel injected subcutaneously into athymic nude mice.

The Matrigel plug implantation assay used in these studies was a modification of that described by Passaniti et al. 25 . Briefly PAEC were grown to confluency in Ham s F 12 medium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum. Cells were used between passages 5 and 10. Nude mice were injected bilaterally subcutaneously with 0.5 ml Matrigel synthetic basement membrane Collaorative Research containing 1 10PAECs per plug and recombinant murine VEGF R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. at 20 ng ml final concentration per plug. Mice bearing PAEC VEGF Matrigel implants were randomized into groups 10 group . Vehicle treated mice received Tw PG vehicle 100 l dose p.o QD by gavage and Oltipraz treated mice received 250 mg kg dose p.o. QD in the Tw PG vehicle for a total of 6 days. This oral dosing regimen of Oltipraz was based upon the known pharmacokineic parameters of this agent in rodents and nonhuman primate species 26 . Mice were euthanized by COasphyxiation and the Matrigel plugs were removed and incubated in 0.5 ml Red Cell Lyse Sigma Diagnostics. St. Louis Mo. at 37 C. overnight. Individual plugs were minced in eppendorf tubes briefly microfuged and the resultant supernatant analyzed colorimetrically for its hemoglobin concentration using the Drabkin method Sigma Diagnostics as described 25 27 . The contralateral plug from each mouse was evaluated histologically for vessel morphology as described 25 . Briefly the Drabkin procedure is based on the oxidation of hemoglobin to methemoglobin in the presence of alkaline potassium ferricyanide. Methemoglobin reacts with potassium cyanide to form cyanmethemoglobin with a maximum absorption of 540 nm. Supernatant from each Matrigel plug 100 l was mixed with 1 ml of Drabkin s solution Sigma and the hemoglobin content was analyzed spectrophotometrically at 540 nm. The hemoglobin content of the PAEC VEGF Matrigel plugs has been reported to be directly proportional to the degree of neovascularization in each plug 25 27 . Results from duplicate in vivo experiments are expressed as mean g dl of hemoglobin standard error of the mean SEM . Statistical analyses of the data were done using the Paired Student s t test with p

Oltipraz was administered at 250 mg kg dose per os once a day in a TW PG vehicle based upon its pharmacokinetic profile in mice in order to achieve sustained plasma concentrations in a physiologically relevant M range over a 6 to 24 h period 26 . The determination of the extent of angiogenesis within the implanted matrix was based on the quantization of the hemoglobin content of the vascularized implants upon removal from the host. As shown in oral administration of Oltipraz for 6 days resulted in a 42 reduction in neovascularization p

Anti tumor Efficacy of Oral Oltipraz Administration on Established Murine SVR Angiosarcoma Xenografts in Athymic Nude Mice.

The SVR angiosarcoma is a highly aggressive endothelial cell tumor with a high take rate and short latency period that is generally refractory to standard treatment regimens and results in the death of the host animal from local invasiveness and hemorrhage 18 28 . Due to the nature of this tumor model inhibition of its growth is likely to reflect both anti angiogenic activities on the host endothelium and anti tumor activity on the angiosarcoma cells directly 28 .

SVR cells are primary murine pancreatic Islet derived endothelial cells immortalized and transformed by the sequential introduction of SV 40 large T antigen and activated H ras respectively 18 . These cells give rise to highly aggressive angiosarcomas in athymic mice with a short latency period and result in a high mortality rate within several weeks post implantation as a result of local invasion and hemorrhage. The use of this model to study the regulation of tumor angiogenesis and the antitumor efficacy of anti angiogenic agents has been described 18 28 .

Cultures of murine SVR cells in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DNEM supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum were grown to subconfluency. SVR cells were injected subcutaneously into the right flank of female athymic nude mice at 1 10cells per mouse in serum free DNEM. At day 6 post implantation when palpable growing tumors 95 5 mm were confirmed mice were randomized into treatment groups 10 mice group . Oral administration of Oltipraz and the TW PG vehicle was done according to the dosing regimen described above in evaluating angiogenesis inhibition in vivo in the PAEC VEGF Matrigel implant model and for a total of 10 days. The fumagillin analogue TNP 470 19 28 was evaluated in this angiosarcoma model as a reference anti angiogenic agent. Tumor volumes were determined with vernier calipers every 3 to 4 days and both absolute tumor volumes and relative tumor volumes normalized to individual tumor volumes at the initiation of dosing were calculated the latter to assess changes in the rate of tumor growth with treatment. Statistical analyses of tumor data were done using the Mann Whitney Rank Sum test or when appropriate for the data set by one way ANOVA and the Dunnet s Multiple Comparison test with p

Oral administration of Oltipraz at the same dose 250 mg kg dose p.o. QD shown to be anti angiogenic in the Matrigel plug implant model was initiated in athymic mice bearing established subcutaneous SVR angiosarcoma xenografts 95 5 mm6 days post implantation and continued for a total of 10 days. As shown in Oltipraz administration resulted in a significant inhibition of tumor growth as early as day 4 of dosing p

In summary these data demonstrate that 1 2 dithiol 3 thione derivatives such as Oltipraz have potent anti angiogenic activity at physiologic concentrations that were previously shown to have minimal toxicity in humans. This anti angiogenic activity was observed in vitro ex vivo and in vivo. In view of its previously established pharmaceutical properties as a prototypic chemopreventive agent and its favorable therapeutic index in rodents and humans these compounds are well suited for use as chemotherapeutic anti angiogenic agents in clinical applications.

The disclosures of each patent patent application and publication cited or described in this document are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

