---

title: Particle patterning chip
abstract: This invention provides devices comprising substrates with wells for the patterning of particles or cells. Such devices are loaded with a suspension of particles or cell, and the entrapped particles or cells are transferred to a second substrate, where patterning of individual particles or cells occurs. Methods of cellular analysis, cell growth studies, surface modification, optical display fabrication and curved surface patterning using devices of this invention are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08021877&OS=08021877&RS=08021877
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 08021877
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060410
---
This invention was made in whole or in part with government support under grant number RR 18878 awarded by the National Institute of Health. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to the fields of cells biotechnology nanoparticles patterning and nano technology in particular methods and devices to pattern particles in predetermined positions on surfaces.

The patterning of particles and cells their positioning in specific locations on a substrate is an increasingly important tool in a variety of applications including the control of a cellular microenvironment. The cellular microenvironment is influenced by several factors including cell media cell matrix and cell cell interactions. Cell patterning can be used to manipulate cell cell interactions for example by varying the contact area between two cell types in co culture. Cell patterning can also be used to direct cell matrix interactions controlling the amount of contact area with the extracellular matrix ECM or the type of ECM upon which the cell is found.

Cell patterning has the potential to improve devices such as cell based biosensors the use of living cells as sensing elements for applications including toxin detection and defense monitoring. Cells have successfully been interfaced to sensing elements to form cell based biosensors and recent advances in cell patterning may enable reproducible and readily manufactured biosensor devices which would answer long felt needs for sensitive assays for biodefense application for example.

Currently there are a number of techniques for patterning cells. Microfluidic patterning takes advantage of the laminar flows in microfluidic devices to pattern the cell culture substrate cells or cell culture media. Other methods use physical barriers to position the cells using for example microwells or removable elastomeric stencils. Microcontact stamping of matrix proteins patterned onto a substrate and electroactive substrates with an applied voltage to switch the surface properties of the substrate are both means used to facilitate selective cell attachment to specific regions of a substrate. Electromagnetic forces and optical tweezers have also been used to pattern cells.

To date these techniques however suffer limitations in their application in high throughput settings lack of resolution at a single cell level produce unnatural and even traumatic effects on the manipulated cells and lack the flexibility of manipulating the cells over time in an appropriate cellular milieu.

In one embodiment this invention provides a particle patterning device comprising a first substrate and wells wherein 

In one embodiment the device further comprises second substrate the long axis of which is positioned approximately parallel to said first substrate at a distance of between 50 m 100 mm from said first substrate

In one embodiment the device further comprises a spacer which is used to position the second substrate at a specified distance from the first substrate and in one embodiment the spacer has a height ranging from about 50 m 100 mm and a width ranging from about 10 m 1 mm. In one embodiment the second substrate is coated with a material which promotes particle adhesion thereto which in one embodiment comprises extracellular matrix components antibodies specific for cell surface molecules or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the second substrate is a 96 well plate.

In one embodiment the first substrate wells or a combination thereof is coated with a material which minimizes particle adhesion thereto which in one embodiment is teflon or in another embodiments is a protein solution which in one embodiment comprises Bovine Serum Albumin BSA .

In one embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof comprise an organic material or in another embodiment an inorganic material. In one embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof comprise a semiconducting material a metal or metal alloy a transparent material or a metal coated with an organic monolayer or multilayer. In another embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof comprises a PolyDiMethylSiloxane PDMS Si SiO2 Si covered by SiO2 Glass or TiO2.

In one embodiment the wells of the device are of equal size or in another embodiment of non equal size. In one embodiment the wells of the device are circular square triangular rectangular or any combination thereof in shape. In one embodiment the wells of the device are of non uniform shape. In one embodiment the wells of the device have a depth of from about 1 nm to about 10 millimeter. In one embodiment the wells are equally spaced on the substrate or in another embodiment the wells are not equally spaced on the substrate.

In one embodiment the particles have a diameter of about 1 1000 micron or in another embodiment the particles have a diameter of about 1 1000 nanometer.

In one embodiment the device further comprises electrical contacts ports for the application of fluids a vacuum or a combination thereof.

In another embodiment the device further comprises an apparatus for controlling atmospheric conditions in the device.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of particle patterning comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the particles are cells which in some embodiments vary in terms of type dimension experimental manipulation or combination thereof. In some embodiments the wells comprise individual cells. In some embodiments the method further comprises the step of assaying the particle or cell.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of patterned cell analysis comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the analyzing is conducted subsequent to cells spreading proliferation assay or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the assay is a diagnostic assay.

In one embodiment the cells are engineered to express at least one desired molecule or in another embodiment the cells are contacted with a library of molecules prior to loading of the cells. In one embodiment the cells are assayed to determine efficacy of a molecule within said library which in one embodiment is a drug. In one embodiment the cells are stem or progenitor cells and in one embodiment the cells are engineered to express at least one desired protein. In one embodiment the cells are cultured under conditions promoting expression of the protein and in one embodiment the conditions promote tissue engineering as a function of expression.

This invention provides in one embodiment a particle patterning device for patterning of micron scale materials such as particles and cells.

In one embodiment this invention provides a particle patterning device comprising a first substrate and wells wherein 

In one embodiment the term patterning device refers to a device which when utilized enables the specific deposition of at least one desired material such as in some embodiments particles or cells at a desired location on a substrate.

In one embodiment the device comprises a first substrate having wells. In one embodiment the term wells refers to any bounded region of space which can physically accommodate in whole or in part a material which is to be patterned. In one embodiment such a well is not to be constrained by shape or size which will be a function of the desired application or material to be deposited. For example and in one embodiment should patterning of lymphocytes onto a substrate be desired then wells for use in a device to effect the same may be roughly circular and have a diameter of roughly 10 m whereas patterning of for example cuboidal cells such as cells comprising exocrine ducts etc. may make use of wells which are approximately square in shape and having a diameter of roughly 40 m. If patterning of a number of cells is desired the diameter of the wells may be enlarged so as to accommodate the number of cells.

In one embodiment the wells have a diameter such that they will accommodate particles cells or other materials of about 1 1000 micrometer or in another embodiment the wells have a diameter such that they will accommodate particles cells or other materials of about 1 1000 nanometer.

In one embodiment the wells of the device may be of equal size or in another embodiment of non equal size. In one embodiment the wells of the device are circular square triangular rectangular or any combination thereof in shape. In one embodiment the wells of the device are of non uniform shape. In one embodiment the wells have a tapered shape such that the apical surface diameter may be larger than a diameter within the well more basally located. In one embodiment the wells are so constructed such that a more apically located segment of the well may be readily removed and a well with an opening with a larger diameter remains.

In one embodiment one application of such a device comprising tapered wells is to load cells into wells wherein the diameter of the wells ensures that only single cells are loaded. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the apical segment is removed for example the well is scored so as to readily allow removal of the segment and a well with a larger diameter comprising individual cells remains. The cells according to this embodiment are then patterned onto a substrate for example onto 24 well tissue culture plates providing a larger area for example for studies of cell replication rates arising from a single cell.

In one embodiment the wells of the device have a depth which is suitable for the particular application of use of the device. In one embodiment in devices used for the patterning of cells the wells will be so constructed so as to have a depth which accommodates the cells media and room for gas exchange. In one embodiment the depth of the wells will be so constructed so as to have an up to 35 excess in height or in another embodiment the depth of the wells will be so constructed so as to have an up to 50 excess in height or in another embodiment the depth of the wells will be so constructed so as to have an up to 75 excess in height or in another embodiment the depth of the wells will be so constructed so as to have an up to 100 excess in height from that of the height of the applied material cell or particle. In one embodiment the depth of the wells will comprise up to 20 excess height or in another embodiment up to 10 excess height or in another embodiment up to 5 excess height. In one embodiment the well height will range from about 1 nm to about 10 millimeter.

In one embodiment the wells are equally spaced on the substrate or in another embodiment the wells are not equally spaced on the substrate.

In one embodiment the size of the spacing between each well of the devices of this invention and their use will be a function of the desired application. Such spacing is not to be constrained in any way and will in some embodiments be a function of the substrate onto which the particles or cells or other material is to be deposited or in other embodiments be a function of the cells deposited or in other embodiments be a function of the type of assay or analysis to be conducted on the patterned particles cells etc.

In some embodiments spacing of the wells will accommodate subsequent transfer of the cells to an industry standard microtiter plate such as for example a 24 96 384 768 or a 1536 well microtiter plate. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the wells comprise a removable apical region as described herein which serve to deposit single cells within each well of the device whose more basal segment following removal of the removable section parallels that of the industry standard microtiter plate and spaced accordingly. In another embodiment according to this aspect wells comprise a relatively constant height however the individual wells are spaced sufficiently apart such that their inversion onto the industry standard microtiter plate results in single cell deposition within each well of the plate.

In some embodiments spacing of the wells is at defined increments of from about 50 m to about 50 mm between each well in said device. In some embodiments spacing of the wells is at defined increments of from about 10 m to about 50 m between each well in said device. In some embodiments spacing of the wells is at defined increments of from about 50 m to about 1 mm between each well in said device. In some embodiments spacing of the wells is at defined increments of from about 1 mm to about 10 mm between each well in said device. In some embodiments spacing of the wells is at defined increments of from about 50 mm to about 200 mm between each well in said device.

In one embodiment the term substrate refers to the material of which the wells and spacing between them are comprised. In one embodiment the wells are positioned and or fixed on a substrate. In one embodiment the wells are contiguous with the substrate i.e. the substrate material forms the wells and spaces between them. In one embodiment the wells communicate between a first outer surface and a second outer surface of the substrate.

In one embodiment the first substrate wells or a combination thereof is coated with a material which minimizes particle adhesion thereto which in one embodiment is polytetrafluoroethylene TEFLON or in another embodiments is a protein solution which in one embodiment comprises Bovine Serum Albumin BSA .

In another embodiment the first substrate may be coated by microstamping molecules such as polyethylene glycol PEG or octadecyl trichlorosilane OTS both of which resist protein adhesion and thereby prevent cell adhesion.

In one embodiment cells particles or other materials are applied to the devices of this invention by any means known in the art. For example cells particles or other materials may be delivered by directly pipetting them onto the surface of the device either manually or by robotic liquid handling systems. In some embodiments application is via bulk delivering the cells particles or other materials in fluid to the surface of the device and removing excess fluid by pipetting or in some embodiments via the application of a vacuum or in some embodiments via the use of a physical implement to remove the cells such as for example a cell scraper or rubber policman. In some embodiments the cells particles or other materials are applied via the use of a delivery device with microfluidic channels to deliver the cells to the surface of the device.

In one embodiment the device further comprises second substrate the long axis of which is positioned approximately parallel to said first substrate at a distance of between 50 m 100 mm from said first substrate.

In one embodiment the device further comprises a spacer which is used to position the second substrate at a specified distance from the first substrate and in one embodiment the spacer has a height ranging from about 50 m 100 mm and a width ranging from about 10 m 1 mm.

In one embodiment the spacer may be constructed of any material and may comprise in some embodiments materials which prevent or diminish adherence thereto as described herein.

In one embodiment the distance between the wells and the second substrate is a function of the spacer. In some embodiments the spacer is of a width on the scale of a few microns or a few nanometers to about a few millimeters. In one embodiment the width of the spacer is dependent on the shape of the enclosed chamber. In one embodiment the shape of the spacer approximates the shape of the well. In one embodiment the spacer is constructed to be positioned around a single well or in another embodiment a grouping of wells or in another embodiment a large array of wells. In some embodiments the spacer geometry is a reflection of the geometries of the well or wells thus bounded. For example a square shaped well may have in some embodiments a square shaped spacer used. In some embodiments the spacer is not contiguous for example a square shaped spacer may have a region of one or more of the sides removed. In some embodiments the spacer may have subcompartments to divide the patterned cells into separate chambers.

In one embodiment the second substrate is coated with a material which promotes particle adhesion thereto which in one embodiment comprises extracellular matrix components antibodies specific for cell surface molecules or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the second substrate is a 96 well plate.

In one embodiment the second substrate is comprised of a cellular or particle adherence promoting material. In some embodiments suitable adherence promoting materials may include but are not limited to various carbon coatings nitrides metal coatings metal alloys biological polymers glasses oxides phosphates and carbides or combinations thereof. In another embodiment additional materials can be used for coating the substrate to promote adherence such as for example coating or application of cytokines chemokines matrix proteins adhesion molecules lectins immunoglobulins RGD peptides R arginine G glycine D aspartic acid and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In another embodiment the adherence promoting materials may include but are not limited to an antigen hapten enzyme an enzyme cofactor a receptor agonist a carbohydrate a receptor and others.

In another embodiment the adherence promoting materials may include but are not limited to an antibody specific for various or specific mammalian cells. For example anti Ig kappa light chain antibody anti CD45R antibody or anti syndecan may be used to differentially bind B cells. Antibodies to cytokeratins may differentially bind epithelial cells etc. Any of the methods known in the art for conjugating an antibody to a solid phase support can be used in the present invention.

In one embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof comprise an organic material or in another embodiment an inorganic material. In one embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof comprise a semiconducting material a metal or metal alloy a transparent material or a metal coated with an organic monolayer or multilayer. In another embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof comprises a PolyDiMethylSiloxane PDMS Si SiO2 Si covered by SiO2 Glass or TiO2.

In one embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof comprise rigid or flexible machinable material such as glass co polymer or polymer for example urethane rubber molded plastic polymethyl methacrylate PMMU polycarbonate polyvinyl chloride PVC polysulfone and the like.

In one embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof comprise two or more materials which in one embodiment are used in a parallel or in another embodiment are used in a serial fashion. In one embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof are hard or in another embodiment are flexible. In another embodiment the first substrate wells second substrate or a combination thereof are comprised of a flexible material which can be wrapped around a curved surface.

In one embodiment the surface is an organic material. In one embodiment the surface is inorganic material. In one embodiment the surface is glass. In one embodiment the surface is Si. In one embodiment the surface is metal. In one embodiment the surface is an inorganic material coated with metal. In one embodiment the surface is an inorganic material coated by an organic material. In one embodiment the surface is transparent. In one embodiment the surface has a cylindrical shape.

In one embodiment the wells are shaped and sized to hold individual cells such as adherent cells neoplastic cells pre neoplastic cells neuronal cells microglia cells giant cells hormone secreting cells metabolism and storage cells barrier function cells ECM secreting cells contractile cells blood and immune system cell germ cells stem cells fused cells primary cells cell lines bacterial cells yeast protests or any desired cell which can be contained within the device.

In one embodiment the devices of this invention are formed using the technology of micro or nano fabrication. Microfabrication technology or microtechnology or MEMS in one embodiment applies the tools and processes of semiconductor fabrication to the formation of for example physical structures. Similarly nanofabrication technology enables the formation of nanometer scale materials.

Microfabrication technology allows one in one embodiment to precisely design features e.g. wells channels with dimensions in the range of 

In one embodiment the device of this invention uses biologically applied microtechnology for the creation of large cell patterning arrays that hold and ultimately pattern single cells when flipped onto a second substrate.

In one embodiment such chips may be made by pouring a silicone liquid over a master Si wafer with the defining features. The silicone hardens after a few hours and is peeled off. Each silicone sheet can produce 10 chips depending on the size of the chips. The master Si wafer is fabricated using photolithography e beam lithography shadow mask lithography NanoSphere Lithography NSL block copolymer lithography and several wafers can be made in a few hours. The master wafers last indefinitely allowing for the generation of many rounds of chips.

In some embodiments the devices of this invention may be fabricated by any means known in the art such as for example by modified electroplating Florio S. M 1997 Otsuka K. 1997 electroforming Andrea L. E. 1997 electro etching Brophy D. J. 1997 with or without lithography. In one embodiment the device may be prepared by chemical etching.

In some embodiments the devices of this invention are fabricated using well known molding techniques such as injection molding embossing or stamping or by polymerizing the polymeric precursor material within a mold. Standard soft lithography techniques may also be used to fabricate the devices see e.g. Love et al. MRS BULLETIN pp. 523 527 July 2001 Delamarche et al JOURNAL OF AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY Vol. 120 pp. 500 508 1998 Delamarche et al SCIENCE Vol. 276 pp. 779 781 May 1997 Quake et al. SCIENCE Vol. 290 pp. 1536 1540 Nov. 24 2000 U.S. Pat. No. 6 090 251 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference .

In some embodiments the range and height of the wells are defined by the molding technique used. In one embodiment a master mold is prepared using photoresist and wells ranging from about 1 500 micron in height may be prepared which dimensions can be expanded in other embodiments and will be a function of the material used to mold the wells or the substrate comprising the same. In another embodiment well diameter can be defined by the photo mask which can produce diameters of about 1 micron to up to about 100 mm.

In another embodiment well spacing may also be defined by the photomask. In one embodiment wells can be constructed so as to be packed as closely together as possible with sufficient space therebetween to prevent overlap for example construction of a 20 micron diameter well may be accompanied by spacing of the wells on the substrate by about 25 micron. In some embodiments spacing may be very far apart and several orders of magnitude larger than the well diameter. It is to be understood that none of the dimensions of the wells their spacing height etc. are to be construed as being restricted in any way and will vary as a function of the desired application of the particular device.

In one embodiment the array size may be any to suit a particular application for example a 20 20 mm chip may be produced 50 50 mm or in other embodiments larger or smaller chips and well spacing will be a function of a desired application and be reflected in the array size as well.

In one embodiment the devices of this invention may comprise multiple ports for the introduction of fluids the application of a vacuum or others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. In one embodiment the device is fabricated in a modular design such that transport of the device comprising cells flipping of the first substrate in order to pattern the particles cells or other materials and their assay is more readily accomplished. In one embodiment the device may modularly fit into a holder which has a height and depth that exceeds that of the device yet situates the device within. In some embodiments the modular design of the device enables the robotization of the patterning methods of this invention.

In one embodiment the device further comprises electrical contacts ports for the application of fluids a vacuum or a combination thereof.

In another embodiment the device further comprises an apparatus for controlling atmospheric conditions in the device.

In one embodiment the devices of this invention comprise control systems and user interfaces. In one embodiment control systems comprise on chip environmental control or embedded environmental control of the second substrate or environmental control hookup to the second substrate to enable multi hour observation of cells electronic and fluidic control to automate the sorting process as well as the delivery of reagents to the devices automated microscopy to perform observation and data acquisition or a combination thereof. In one embodiment all the control systems may be unified via computer interface.

In one embodiment controlling the environment of the devices will enable multi hour assays with the cells in their preferred environment of for example 37 C. with proper pH 7.2 and oxygen tension. In one embodiment the devices of this invention may be under controlled physicochemical parameters which may comprise temperature pH oxygen tension or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the devices of this invention may comprise an integrated temperature control system. In one embodiment on chip temperature sensing may be conducted and in another embodiment may use a microscale calibration technique that gives spatial information.

In one embodiment the temperature control system may consist of a metal temperature sensing resistor and a resistively heated transparent conductive heater connected to a computer. The computer implements in software a PID proportional integral differential controller that in turn controls a heater power supply. The transparent heater may be made in one embodiment of indium tin oxide ITO a transparent conductor that is commonly used as an electrode in LCD displays and is used as a heater in a commercial environmental chamber for microscopy Bioptechs Inc. . In one embodiment it is possible to place the heater anywhere in the system. In one embodiment commercially obtained ITO coated coverslips are used and the solution is heated directly.

In another embodiment the performance of the temperature control system can be evaluated using encapsulated thermochromic liquid crystals TLCs Chaudhari A. M. Woudenberg T. M. Albin M. Goodson K. E. Transient liquid crystal thermometry of microfabricated PCR vessel arrays. Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems 7 345 355 1998 . These crystals which are the same active ingredient found in flexible strip thermometers that patients can apply to their foreheads change color in response to temperature differences and are readily available in formulations with responses centered around physiological temperatures and in particle sizes of several microns giving adequate spatial resolution. They allow for the spatial integration of the image and the temperature distribution of the chip and through calibration achieving in one embodiment 0.1 C. accuracy and precision.

In another embodiment pH is controlled in DMEM based media via a bicarbonate buffering system. In one embodiment pH may be measured using a commercial inline microvolume pH sensor. In another embodiment Owill be monitored and controlled in the same way as CO.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of particle patterning comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the particles are cells which in some embodiments vary in terms of type dimension experimental manipulation or combination thereof. In some embodiments the wells comprise individual cells. In some embodiments the method further comprises the step of assaying the particle or cell.

The particle patterning devices of the present invention can be used in some embodiments to pattern thousands of cells with single cell resolution and concurrently be so constructed so as to allow the cells room to grow.

The patterning devices of this invention can in some embodiments comprise microfabricated polymer chips containing thousands of microwells each sized to trap down to a single cell level as demonstrated herein in . The device may comprise the chip or first substrate with wells alone where the cells or particles are accommodated individually or per the particular requirements for use. The first substrate or chip is then flipped over onto a second substrate which may be a part of the device in some embodiments or in other embodiments may be any desired substrate onto which the deposition of the particles or cells is desired.

In one embodiment the second substrate onto which the material is patterned may be coated or associated with another material or another layer of cells. When cells are patterned onto the second substrate in some embodiments they can attach after a few hours and proliferate. The patterning device can be a part of an enclosed flow chamber in some embodiments enabling utilization in perfusion culture systems. It is to be understood that the patterning devices of this invention need not be restricted to any specific cell particle or material and can be used for anything for which discrete patterning is desired for example the device may be used to pattern model cells or other particles as will be described below.

In one embodiment an advantage to the devices and or method of the invention is the ability to pattern cells at a single cell resolution concurrent with the ability to pattern them on a surface with much room to proliferate is not restricted to the type of material of which it is comprised and the method and device are easy to use gentle on the material being patterned an attractive feature for example when working with cells or material that is fragile. Other applicable features of the devices and or methods of the invention are the ability to pattern with high efficiency pattern thousands of cells on a substrate and pattern a wide range of designs.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of patterned cell analysis comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the analyzing is conducted subsequent to cells spreading proliferation assay or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the assay is a diagnostic assay.

In one embodiment the cells are engineered to express at least one desired molecule or in another embodiment the cells are contacted with a library of molecules prior to loading of the cells. In one embodiment the cells are assayed to determine efficacy of a molecule within said library which in one embodiment is a drug. In one embodiment the cells are stem or progenitor cells and in one embodiment the cells are engineered to express at least one desired protein. In one embodiment the cells are cultured under conditions promoting expression of the protein and in one embodiment the conditions promote tissue engineering as a function of expression.

In one embodiment the devices and or methods of the invention modulate cell cell signaling by patterning single cells in grids of different configurations.

In one embodiment cells or particles are assayed when positioned on the first or second substrate or both. In some embodiments the components of the device are selected such that minimal background contribution of the materials is contributed to the readout of the assy. In some embodiments such choice in material is a reflection of the reagent used. In one embodiment the reagent may comprise is an antibody a nucleic acid an enzyme a substrate a ligand or a combination thereof which in turn may be coupled to a detectable marker which in another embodiment is a fluorescent compound. In one embodiment according to this aspect of the invention the substrates may be comprised of a transparent material and in another embodiment analysis is carried out using automated microscopy and may comprise the application of for example fluorescence microscopy.

In another embodiment assay may make use of microscopy which in turn can be coupled to the devices of the invention and provide for automated imaging and phenotype acquisition as part of the methods of this invention. In one embodiment commercially available automated microscopes by Zeiss Nikon etc. which enable the user to control the objectives fluorescence filters x y stage z axis autofocus diaphragms etc may be used. According to this aspect appropriate control software e.g. Metamorph may be used in another embodiment to set up a timelapse protocol repeatedly taking brightfield and fluorescence pictures of an arbitrary set of fields at arbitrary time intervals.

In one embodiment the use of two photon microscopy will be used in order to give greater fluorescence sensitivity or in another embodiment quantum dots may be used for high brightness live cell labeling.

In one embodiment a combination of general assays to test overall long term effects of cellular manipulations in the patterning methods of this invention may be conducted which may comprise molecular analysis of the stress response using for example immunofluorescence or RT PCR. In one embodiment stress responses may be determined via the characterization of changes in both nuclear accumulation and mRNA levels in response to manipulation on chip.

In one embodiment stress responses may be determined with the use of model cells for example NIH 3T3 fibroblasts grown in standard medium and introduced to the wells of the first substrate e.g. a microchip as depicted in . Cells are then flipped onto a second substrate for example a 24 well plate and stress responses of the cells are evaluated in the plate. To assess nuclear translocation of hsc70 one may then fix cells with 3.7 formaldehyde permeabilize them and perform indirect immunofluorescence in situ with an anti hsc70 monoclonal antibody e.g. SPA 815 from Stressgen154 and an appropriate secondary antibody. As positive controls for nuclear translocation one can use NIH 3T3 cells grown on 24 well plates under the same conditions that have been exposed to heat shock of 45 C. for 60 min in a water bath conditions that have been shown to give significant nuclear translocation in HeLa cells and is more than adequate to give hsc70 upregulation in NIH3T3 cells. As negative controls one may use cells seeded on the 24 well plates which have not been patterned on the plates from another substrate. Software may be used to colocalize hsc70 fluorescence with a nuclear stain such as Hoechst or DAPI using routines such as those used for the Cellomics platform.

In another embodiment the stress response may be determined via RT PCR assay of hsc70 and hsp70 mRNA levels both of which have been shown to be upregulated as assayed by Northern blot in NIH 3T3 cells in response to heat shock for example. NIH 3T3 fibroblasts grown and patterned as described are then flash frozen and stored at 80 C. thawed and total RNA is isolated for example with a commercial kit optimized for small cell numbers e.g. Qiagen s RNAEasy micro . RT PCR with appropriately chosen exon spanning primers for hsc70 and hsp70 as well as internal control such as b actin is performed. Samples from control cells as described above may be similarly probed.

In one embodiment the devices and or methods of this invention find application in various screens. In one embodiment the screen may be a genetic screen which in one embodiment has three fundamental steps 1 alteration of the genetic program of the cell 2 patterning the altered cell under desired conditions and 3 observation and or identification of altered phenyotype in the cell as a consequence of the genetic changes. In some embodiments the method will enable the determination of the elements responsible for the displayed phenotypes. In one embodiment alteration can be accomplished using the natural background mutation rate or in another embodiment inducing mutations with chemicals or UV light or in another embodiment introducing exogenous pieces of DNA e.g. transfection or in another embodiment using small molecules or siRNAs to alter protein function or in another embodiment protein expression. In one embodiment specific patterning of the altered cells with the ability to control the cellular microenvironment and its downstream effects will dramatically enhance the reach of genetic screens.

In another embodiment the methods and or devices enable the determination of behaviors that vary over space and over time. Cells are inherently dynamical systems with specialized compartments. Timescales for relevant phenomena vary over many orders of magnitude from the subsecond responses of cells to calcium to the 10 s of seconds for ligand induced protein translocation to the hours needed for mammalian cells to go through the cell cycle and each of these timescales may be observed via the methods and or devices of this invention.

In one embodiment the methods and or devices of this invention will use particles and or cells with fluorescent outputs such as green fluorescent protein GFP or its variants Tsien R. Y. The green fluorescent protein. Annual Review of Biochemistry 67 509 544 1998 that indicate or report the presence of the phenotype of interest Taylor D. L. Woo E. S. Giuliano K. A. Real time molecular and cellular analysis the new frontier of drug discovery. Current Opinion in Biotechnology 12 75 81 2001 Rutter G. A. Kennedy H. J. Wood C. D. White M. R. H. Tavare J. M. Real time imaging of gene expression in single living cells. Chemistry Biology 5 R285 R290 1998 . In one embodiment subcellular localization may be assessed Rolls M. M. et al. A visual screen of a GFP fusion library identifies a new type of nuclear envelope membrane protein. J Cell Biol 146 29 44. 1999 Peelle B. et al. Intracellular protein scaffold mediated display of random peptide libraries for phenotypic screens in mammalian cells. Chem Biol 8 521 34. 2001 Fujii G. Tsuchiya R. Ezoe E. Hirohashi S. Analysis of nuclear localization signals using a green fluorescent protein fusion protein library. Exp Cell Res 251 299 306. 1999 two hybrid screens for protein interactions may be conducted Shioda T. Andriole S. Yahata T. Isselbacher K. J. A green fluorescent protein reporter mammalian two hybrid system with extrachromosomal maintenance of a prey expression plasmid application to interaction screening. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 5220 4. 2000 and reporters of protein tyrosine kinase activity Ting A. Y. Kain K. H. Klemke R. L. Tsien R. Y. Genetically encoded fluorescent reporters of protein tyrosine kinase activities in living cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98 15003 8. 2001 may be effected via visual inspection of fluorescing cells as described. Fluorescence may also used to study the intracellular dynamics of the cells patterned via the devices of this invention. In one embodiment fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET which is a sensitive measure of protein protein interactions and has been used to study everything from protein localization to kinase activity Lippincott Schwartz J. Snapp E. Kenworthy A. Studying protein dynamics in living cells. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2 444 56. 2001 Zhang J. Campbell R. E. Ting A. Y. Tsien R. Y. Creating new fluorescent probes for cell biology. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 3 906 18 2002 may be employed in the devices and or methods of this invention and may make use of the spacing in the patterning of the cells on the substrate. In another embodiment fluorescence recovery after photobleaching FRAP may be used to measure protein mobility by in one embodiment photobleaching a cell area and measuring the time needed to restore fluorescence from newly introduced fluorophores. In another embodiment fluorescence correlation spectroscopy FCS may be used to measure protein diffusion and concentration in live cells giving information on in another embodiment protein protein interactions.

In another embodiment morphology is another phenotypic indicator used in the methods of this invention. In another embodiment morphological assessment may be complemented with molecular characterization. In another embodiment morphology is utilized in characterizing cell function such as for example and in another embodiment the determination of cellular apoptosis which may be determined morphologically via the observation changes in cell and nuclear morphology over the time course of the process studied.

In one embodiment of this invention the patterning devices of this invention are extremely versatile and enable automated large scale patterning and subsequent single cell assay. In one embodiment the devices of this invention may screen 10 000 cells simultaneously including for example the ability to simultaneously screen in another embodiment for dynamic behavior of the expressed protein.

In another embodiment one step library screens such as in one embodiment a cDNA or mutant library of mammalian cells having undergone transient transfections with such libraries may be performed. In another embodiment screens involving introduced genetic elements using in one embodiment stable transfection or in another embodiment transient transfection with pooled libraries may be used. In another embodiment the devices of this invention can be used to isolate single positive responding cells for immediate genetic analysis such as for example single cell PCR.

In another embodiment synthetic genetic regulatory modules introduced into for example may be used to investigate genetic regulation and fundamental cell biology via the methods of this invention. In one embodiment combinatorial techniques to generate plasmids randomly encoding differing two input the small molecules IPTG and aTc and one output a GFP reporter logic functions may be used as described Guet C. C. Elowitz M. B. Hsing W. Leibler S. Combinatorial synthesis of genetic networks. Science 296 1466 70. 2002 . In one embodiment similar library based approaches could be extended to dynamic or even localization circuits such as variations on the original repressilator where cells are easily isolated after extended dynamic monitoring.

In one embodiment the incorporation of unique non grid geometries patterning the cells on the second substrate provide a means to assess spatial effects on cells for example following exposure to an agent inciting the initiation of an intracellular cascade. Such effects in terms of controlling or promoting cell cell signaling can similarly be assessed.

In some embodiments the devices and or methods of this invention find application in drug discovery. For example libraries of compounds can be screened on a single cell level using the devices of this invention. Downstream effects in the singular patterned cell can be evaluated over a prolonged course of time and parallel determinations in multiple cell types or cells can be determined.

In another embodiment the devices and or methods of this invention find application in stem cell engineering or tissue engineering as described. Patterned cells including stem cells can be genetically altered prior or following their deposition onto the second substrate and effects on cellular phenotype assessed by any means known in the art. In other embodiments cells can be spaced sufficiently so as to enable engineering of tissue on the second substrate. In one embodiment cells may be patterned onto the second substrate repeatedly over a course of time. In one embodiment for example stem cells are initially patterned and at a later point in time more differentiated cells or cells of alternative lineages may be applied to the second substrate to mimic engineering of tissue in vivo. The application of cells including cells engineered to express multiple or different proteins and their application to temporally regulate a desired process can be readily accomplished via the devices and or methods of this invention and provide numerous processes which may be utilized for a staggering number of biological applications which will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. Such application may be useful for example in the development of cell based biosensors diagnostic assays cell signaling research cell tracking studies and others.

In another embodiment the devices of this invention find application in the construction of optical colored displays. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment a solution comprising hollow particles e.g. vesicles are individually introduced to wells of the first substrate. The vesicles encapsulate a labeled marker for example a red dye molecule. The substrate is flipped over a transparent surface and the solution is dried out causing the vesicles to break and release the red dye onto the surface in positions that follows the spacings in the substrate well array. The substrate is cleaned and filled with vesicles that carry blue dye molecules. The substrate is aligned with one well length shift to its former position with respect to the surface. The process is repeated yielding a square area of blue dye molecules next to the square area of the red dye molecules on the transparent surface. The process can be repeated with additional colors to yield a display exhibiting an array of pixels each contains a set of different colors. Each pixel can be later addressed electronically or optically by attaching an appropriate probe to each pixel area.

In another embodiment the devices and or methods of this invention may find application in the detection of cell signaling events. In some embodiments such signaling events are stimulated by proximity for example early signaling events in white blood cells when in proximity to a pathogen may be readily determined using the methods and or devices of the invention. In one embodiment the first substrate comprises wells sized such that only individual macrophages can be accommodated within the wells. The macrophages are flipped onto a second substrate. Another substrate sized to accommodate varying numbers of bacterial cells for example is then flipped on the same substrate positioning a desired number of pathogens and cell signaling in the macrophages is determined as a function of bacterial cell number in proximity to the macrophages. In another embodiment other signaling events in cells may be determined as a function of environmental conditions cell density etc. For example bacterial cells may be patterned at varying density on the second substrate and the initiation of quorum sensing may then be determined.

In some embodiments the methods and or devices may be used to form multiple patterns of particles cells. According to this aspect and in one embodiment the methods and or devices may be used to pattern a first cell type or particle onto the substrate and subsequently pattern an additional cell type and or particle onto the substrate. In some embodiments multiple rounds of patterning are envisaged. In some embodiments the second patterning is atop the first cell or particle patterned or in another embodiment the second patterning is shifted over by a discrete length for example one cell or particle length over so as to produce for example a checkerboard of different cells or cell particle or particle particle arrangements. In some embodiments variation in multiple patterning steps enables arrangements of specific lines rows of different particles cells on a single array. In some embodiments such patterned arrays with repeat patterning steps may be accomplished utilizing the same first substrate twice or in some embodiments using multiple first substrates patterning cells particles onto the same second substrate.

In some embodiments this enables patterning of cells onto substrates comprising cells or particles which have not been patterned. Some applications of this principle may include patterning single bacterial cells onto monolayers of immune cells for example where the bacterial cells are for example engineered to express a library which comprises mutations which affect the pathogenesis of the organism. It is to be understood that any manipulation of the patterning devices and or methods of this invention may be used when the device is stand alone or comprises a part of a flow chamber as herein described.

In some embodiments the particles for use with the devices and or methods of this invention comprise a drug an antibody a nucleic acid or any compound of interest. The compound may serve as a probe for a particular function or to determine expression or in other embodiments to treat a particular condition. In some embodiments such compound associated beads which may be physically attached or attracted to the beads by non covalent association may be patterned onto individual cells multiple patterned arrangements monolayers of cells non patterned cell groupings etc. There is no limitation to the application of the compound associated bead to any substrate in this invention.

In some embodiments cells can be patterned onto electrodes and can in turn find application as biosensors as is well known in the art for example as described in U.S. Application Publication Number 20050095630 U.S. Application Publication Number 20050014201 U.S. Application Publication Number 20040048241 and others as will be appreciated by one of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the methods and or devices may be used to determine the effects of specific geometries on cell growth. For example the particle patterning device may comprise a second substrate with a non flat surface. The surface according to this aspect and in one embodiment may comprise an array of mechanical barriers for the study of cell growth under restricted geometries. The surface is patterned by photolithography followed by an etching step to yield various barrier shapes on it. The surface barriers are closed or partially opened. In one embodiment the barriers are so constructed so as to result in cell patterning within the voids enclosed or semi enclosed by the barriers. Cell growth and other responses are then assayed as a function of time and location within the altered geometry. Barrier heights can be easily modified and many different barrier topographies can be used on a single substrate whose effects can be readily assayed using the devices and or methods of this invention.

In some embodiments the devices and or methods of this invention may be used to modify surfaces of a substrate. In one embodiment the first substrate containing wells may be filled with a solution comprising metal particles which deposit the particles in particular desired regions and concentrations on the substrate. The substrate may then be flipped onto a semiconductor surface forming a metal pattern that follows the well or channel array. This pattern can be of any shape including characters and letters. In one embodiment such method finds application in printing processes. In one embodiment such method may find application in the patterning of select areas on a substrate with a metal. In another embodiment the metal particles on the surface can be further annealed to yield a uniform metal layer pattern on a desired surface. In other embodiments the metal layer can be further modified by an organic material. Other manipulations of this method are readily apparent to one skilled in the art and may be used for the specific patterning or design of any particulate material on a desired substrate.

In another embodiment the devices and or methods of this invention find application in the preparation of patterned curved surfaces which may be used in optical fiber performance enhancement or applications in plastic electronics. In another embodiment as described herein the particle patterning device can be used to pattern curved surfaces. The first substrate comprising an array of wells may be constructed of a flexible polymeric material. The first substrate is initially held flat for loading of the particle solution. Following loading the flexible substrate may then be wrapped around a curved cylindrical surface which in turn may be rotated around the cylinder axis enabling patterning of the particles onto the curved surface. The surface and particles may be chosen such that the particles adhere to the curved surface upon contact. This pattern can be of any shape including in some embodiments that of characters and letters. Some embodiments of this aspect of the invention comprise use of such a method for printing purposes plastic electronics or the patterning of optical fibers for performance enhancement. The metal particles on the surface can be further annealed to yield a uniform metal layer pattern on the surface. The metal layer can be further modified by an organic material in this aspect as well.

The following examples represent embodiments of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any way.

A microfabricated polymer chip containing thousands of microwells each sized to trap individual cells was constructed and is depicted in .

A schematic for patterning the cells is provided in . Cells are pipetted onto the surface of the chip allowing cells to fall into the microwells . After the cells are trapped in the microwells and the other cells are rinsed away the chip is flipped upside down onto the desired substrate. This substrate can be any material such as a glass slide a cell culture dish coated with another material or another layer of cells. The cells then fall out of the microwells onto the substrate where they attach after a few hours and proliferate . The chip has also been validated in an enclosed flow chamber enabling utilization in perfusion culture systems.

In order to determine scalability of the patterning devices a 50 50 grid of murine embryonic stem cells were seeded onto a cell culture dish . When multiple patterning runs of murine embryonic stem cells were applied to the device and flipped onto a cell culture dish patterning efficiencies of greater than 75.9 were consistently achieved.

In addition stem cell patterning showed superior accuracy . Using a microwell microwell spacing of 200 0 m cells were patterned onto a cell culture dish with a cell cell spacing of 198 17 m thus seeding a cell within one cell diameter away from its target location. Cell patterning down to single cell resolution has been achieved with 50.0 of the patterned spots resulting in single cells.

Since cell cell spacing on the grid can be varied using the devices of this invention the seeding density of patterned cells can also be varied. In addition the size of each microwell and thus the number of cells at each patterned spot can be varied.

Proliferating cells can be patterned with the devices of this invention and long term studies a desirable application. Since substrate modification techniques are not necessary for the preparation of the devices of this invention the cells are not restricted in terms of available area to grow hence they can proliferate over a long time course once applied to the second substrate. In addition because the cells are patterned in a grid the cell coordinates can be used to track the cells over time an example of which was validated in . The devices of the invention provide for the ability to monitor changes in cell behavior at the single cell level tracking spatial and temporal changes enabling advantages over populational averaging.

Since the microwells can be fabricated at different densities on the same chip i.e. spaced apart from each other at different increments thus cells can be patterned with different cell cell spacing once flipped onto the respective substrate. An example of this is provided in where cells were patterned onto the substrate with a cell cell spacing of 200 m 400 m and 800 m.

Sizing the microwell to be significantly larger than that of an applied cell allows for the patterning of more than a single cell at respective regions on the substrate . Sizing of the microwells can also be such so as to include wells of different size on the same chip and thereby trap different numbers of cells per well on the same chip for example or trap cells of different size on the same chip in another example.

