---

title: Detecting nerve agents and determining the types thereof
abstract: An embodiment of a chemical detector has at least one detection window and at least first and second ampoules selectively communicatively coupled to the at least one detection window. The first ampoule contains a first substance that can hydrolyze a nerve agent. The second ampoule contains a second substance that can react with a hydrolyzed nerve agent to produce a color change.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08057761&OS=08057761&RS=08057761
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08057761
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061213
---
The present invention relates generally to chemical detection and in particular the present invention relates to detecting nerve agents and determining the types thereof.

Chemical warfare agents such as the nerve agents GB and VX pose a toxic and persistent hazard to conventional military forces and possibly to civilian populations. These chemical warfare agents are potentially employed as a tactical or terror weapon in various military scenarios such as being deployed in military actions for effective terrain denial using a variety of dissemination mechanisms including grenades mortars mines rockets bombs long range projectiles and missiles.

A chemical agent detector has been developed for detecting a variety of chemical warfare agent vapors or gases e.g. non persistent nerve vapors blood gases and liquid blister agents. An example of a chemical agent detector for detecting a variety of chemical warfare agent vapors or gases is an M256A1 Chemical Agent Detector Kit. A chemical agent detector for detecting solid liquid or vapor chemical hazards has also been developed. An example of such a detector is an M256 LVHD Low Volatility Hazard Detector which is a standard M256A1 Chemical Agent Detector modified to include low volatility liquid and solid sampling and detection. In particular the M256 LVHD includes a sample heater assembly that can be used with an M256A1 Chemical Agent Detector to effectively vaporize one or more low volatility agents for detection thereof. The M256A1 and the M256 LVHD are described in Department of the Army Technical Manual TM 3 6665 307 10 titled An Operators Manual for Chemical Agent Detector Kit M256 6665 01 016 8399 and M256A1 6665 01 133 4964 September 1985 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. One problem with these detectors is they cannot distinguish between classes within the nerve agent family e.g. between G type nerve agents and V type nerve agents.

An embodiment of a chemical detector has at least one detection window and at least first and second ampoules selectively communicatively coupled to the at least one detection window. The first ampoule contains a first substance that can hydrolyze a nerve agent. The second ampoule contains a second substance that can react with a hydrolyzed nerve agent to produce a color change.

In the following detailed description of the present embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments that may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice disclosed subject matter and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that process changes may be made without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the claimed subject matter is defined only by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

Detector includes ampoules and that are respectively selectively communicatively coupled to detection windows and as shown in a front view of detector . Ampoules and contain reagents are released into their respective detection windows and when the ampoules are crushed. The reagents of ampoules and respectively produce color changes or calorimetric reactions in detection windows and in the presence of particular hazardous chemical vapors or gases.

Detector may include a heating element as shown in that includes two glass reactant vials that when broken give off heat. illustrates a sample heater assembly of the prior art. Sample heater assembly and heating element are used in combination with detector as shown in to increase the effective vapor pressure of law volatility hazardous liquids or solids particularly nerve agents such as VX. An example of a detector combined with sample heater assembly and heating element is an M256 Low Volatility Hazard Detector M256 LVHD as described in application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 633 733 filed Aug. 4 2003 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 036 388 on May 2 2006 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Sample heater assembly is positioned over one of the detection windows or such as detection window as shown in . A chemical detection paper e.g. M8 Liquid Agent Detection Paper or M9 paper containing a sample e.g. a hazardous liquid absorbed by the paper or a solid attached to the paper is disposed in heater assembly as shown in . Heating element is inserted into sample heater assembly as shown in so as to cover chemical detection paper containing the sample. Glass vials of heating element are crushed producing heat that vaporizes the liquid sample contained by chemical detection paper . Liquid reagents are then released into the detection window with the heater assembly positioned thereover e.g. window in by crushing the corresponding ampoules e.g. ampoules . The reagents produce a color change or calorimetric reaction in the corresponding window when a hazardous chemical is present.

The reagents contained in the ampoules in detector are selected to produce a color in a corresponding detection window that matches the color of color comparator located above the corresponding the detection window. A purple blue color comparator and a red purple color comparator are located above detection window as shown in and correspond to the color of detection window in the presence of blister agents e.g. respectively of mustard H or HD and phosgene oxime CX . No color change in detection window in response to the reagent indicates that there is no blister agent present e.g. no hazard. A pink color comparator and a blue color comparator are located above detection window and correspond to the color of detection window in the presence of blood agent. No color change or a color change to tan indicates no hazard. A white color comparator is located above detection window and corresponds to the color of detection window in the presence a nerve agent. A blue green color comparator is located above detection window and corresponds to the color of detection window when there is no hazard.

Note that detector e.g. configured as an M256A1 Chemical Agent Detector can be used to detect hazardous vapors or gases such as blister agents blood and nerve agents directly by releasing reagents into a window exposed to a vapor or gas and by comparing the resulting color of the window to a comparator located above the window. Detector e.g. configured as an M256 LVHD Chemical Agent Detector can also be used to detect hazardous liquids or solids such as blister agents blood and nerve agents by vaporizing a liquid or solid so as to expose a preselected window to the vapor releasing reagents into an exposed window and comparing the resulting color of the window to a comparator located above the window. However detector cannot provide a tactical confirmation as to what class of nerve agents is detected when the color of window is white indicating the presence of a nerve agent. That is detector cannot be used to determine whether the detected nerve agent is a volatile G type nerve agent or a non volatile V type nerve agent. The only fielded systems that can distinguish G type nerve agents from V type nerve agents are presumptive liquid agent detectors such as M8 Liquid Detection papers. The alternative is the very sophisticated and limited quantity mass spectrometric systems found in NBC Nuclear Biological and Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicles.

M8 Liquid Agent Detection Paper is employed in the M256 LVHD but it still does not adequately discriminate the possible nerve agents being detected such as liquid G type nerve agent or liquid V type nerve agent. M8 Liquid Agent Detection Paper is dipped into a suspect liquid and absorbs that liquid. Any resulting color change in the M8 paper is compared to the colors of color comparators of an M8 color key shown in disposed on a backside of the cover of a booklet of M8 paper. A color match indicates the possible presence of an agent hazard. For example if the M8 paper turns red it matches color comparator of color key indicating the possible presence of a liquid blister agent. If the M8 paper turns yellow or gold it matches color comparator of color key indicating the possible presence of a liquid G type nerve agent. If the M8 paper turns green it matches color comparator of color key indicating the possible presence of a liquid V type nerve agent. For some V type nerve agents the M8 paper first turns green and then turns from green to brown. Although the M8 paper does provide some calorimetric discrimination of G type nerve agents from V type nerve agents M8 paper uses simple acid base principles for discrimination that are prone to false positive reactions from environmental interferents. Therefore M8 paper does not provide a full proof discrimination method. M8 Chemical Agent Detection Paper is described in army Supply Bulletin SB 3 6665 2 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Detector configured for analyzing liquids or solids e.g. configured as the M256 LVHD is used as described above to determine whether the liquid sample absorbed by the M8 Paper when the paper turns color is a hazard or a false positive. That is sample heater assembly is positioned over a detection window of detector associated with the potential hazard as shown in the sample containing M8 paper is disposed in the sample heater assembly as shown in and is vaporized into the detection window and vaporized sample reacts with the reagents that are released into the detection window from the ampoules as described above. If the color from the M256 detection window indicates a hazard the liquid sample is a hazard.

Specifically for a nerve agent the color of the M8 paper indicates the possible presence of a G type nerve agent by turning yellow or gold or a V type nerve agent by turning green or by turning green and then brown. The sample heater assembly is positioned over starred detection window for nerve agents of detector as shown in . The liquid absorbed in the yellow or gold or green or brown M8 paper is vaporized in sample heater assembly thereby exposing detection window to the vapor. If the reagent released from ampoules causes detection window to turn white the liquid is a G type nerve agent when the M8 paper is yellow or gold and a V type nerve agent when the M8 paper is green or brown. If the window turns blue green this indicates that no nerve agent hazard is present and therefore the liquid which turned the M8 Paper either gold or green was an organic liquid that happened to react with one of those dyes impregnated in the M8 Paper. In this case the M8 color detection is considered a false positive.

M9 paper contains a single dye and turns red when dipped into a liquid nerve agent either a G type nerve agent or a V type nerve agent or when dipped into a blister agent and exhibits no color change when dipped into a liquid that does not contain a liquid nerve agent or a liquid blister agent. Similar to M8 paper M9 paper is susceptible to interferents and thus some organic liquids can cause a change in M9 paper thus indicating a false positive. Therefore M9 paper indicates the possibility of a liquid nerve agent or a liquid blister agent when it turns red.

As described above in conjunction with the M8 paper detector configured for analyzing liquids or solids e.g. configured as the M256 LVHD can be used to determine whether the liquid sample contained in the M9 paper is a hazard or a false positive. That is the liquid contained in the M9 paper can be vaporized in the sample heater assembly while the sample heater assembly is located over the starred detection window thereby exposing detection window to the vapor. If the reagents released from ampoules causes detection window to turn white the liquid is either a G type nerve agent or a V type nerve agent when the M9 paper is red. If the detection window turns blue green this indicates that no nerve agent hazard is present and therefore the liquid which turned the M9 Paper red was an organic that happened to react with the dye impregnated in the M9 Paper. In this case the M9 color detection is considered a false positive or possibly a blister agent. In that case one may want to insert the sample heater assembly of over the detection window for detecting blister agents as shown in . Therefore using M9 paper in conjunction with detector configured for analyzing liquids or solids cannot differentiate between the types of liquid nerve agents nor can it distinguish nerve from blister agents.

The liquid sample absorbed in the M9 paper can also be vaporized in sample heater assembly while sample heater assembly is located over square detection window thereby exposing detection window to the vapor. If the reagents released from ampoules causes detection window to turn a purple blue color a liquid mustard blister agent is present when the M9 paper is red or causes detection window to turn a red purple color liquid when phosgene oxime blister agent is present when the M9 paper is red. No color change in window indicates firstly that no blister agent is present and so when the M9 paper is red this indicates a false positive for blister agent caused by an interfering organic liquid or possibly the presence of a liquid nerve agent.

Detector includes the star shaped detection window and the ampoules of detector . Star shaped detection window and ampoules are operated as described above in conjunction with detector for determining whether a sample is a nerve agent. Note that for one embodiment sample heater assembly and element are positioned over detection window as shown in and described above for vaporizing a liquid or solid sample. Note that the white color comparator is located above the backside of detection window and the blue green color comparator is also located above the backside of detection window as shown in . Note further that releasing reagents from ampoules and into detection window when a nerve agent is present in detection window causes detection window to turn white as described above in conjunction with detector . If no nerve agent is present window turns blue green when reagents from ampoules and are released into detection window . For one embodiment ampoule contains 2 6 dichloroindophenyl acetate and ligroine and ampoule contains a buffer e.g. pH of about 8 such as tris hydroxymethyl amino methane hydrochloric acid and aerosol OT.

Detector also includes a circular shaped detection window selectively communicatively coupled to ampoules and . For one embodiment detection window and ampoules and are respectively modifications of detection window and ampoules and of detector . That is the chemistry of the contents of ampoules and of detector have been changed for determining whether a nerve agent is a G type nerve agent or a V type nerve agent. For one embodiment no color change or colorimetric reaction occurs in detection window when reagents from ampoules and are released into detection window when a G type nerve agent is present in detection window whereas at least a portion of detection window turns dark e.g. brown when reagents from ampoules and are released into detection window when a V type nerve agent is present in detection window .

A dark colored e.g. brown color comparator is located above the backside of detection window as shown in and corresponds to the color of window in the presence of a V type nerve agent. A clear white comparator is also located above the backside of detection window as shown in and corresponds to the color of window in the presence a G type nerve agent. Note that brown comparator and clear white comparator are respectively modifications of the pink color comparator and blue color comparator of detector .

Identification of a G type nerve agent or V type nerve agent in detection window involves hydrolyzing the sample in detection window e.g. using a base hydrolysis with a pH greater than about 9 and subsequently treating the hydrolyzed sample to cause a leaving group of the hydrolyzed sample to undergo reaction such as a ionic reaction. For one embodiment the leaving group undergoes a precipitation reaction and produces a precipitate when a V type nerve agent is present in detection window causing detection window to turn dark. When a G type nerve agent is present the reaction of the hydrolyzed sample does not produce a substantially observable precipitation and no color change occurs in detection window .

GB and VX can undergo hydrolysis or hydrolyze in either acidic or basic environments. When base hydrolysis e.g. for pH greater than about 9 occurs with GB the fluorine atom the leaving group leaves as the unprotonated fluoride ion. When VX undergoes base hydrolysis the large alkyl sulfide to the right of the central phosphorus atom is the leaving group that separates from the molecule.

After the GB is hydrolyzed the following ionic reaction takes place when the fluoride leaving group is treated with a Silver Nitrate solution e.g. having a concentration of approximately 0.1M AgNO for example F Ag AgF That is the fluoride leaving group reacts with the silver ion from the silver nitrate solution and forms a soluble clear solution with substantially no observable precipitation.

After the VX is hydrolyzed the following ionic reaction takes place when the fluoride leaving group is treated with a Silver Nitrate solution e.g. having a concentration of approximately 0.1M AgNO for example S R Ag AgSR That is the large alkyl sulfide leaving group reacts with the silver ion in the silver nitrate to produce a substantially insoluble dark precipitate indicative of silver sulfide chemistry. Note that conventional chemistry uses shorthand notation like R to indicate alkyl functional groups such as CHand CHCH.

The combination of the base hydrolysis of an unknown nerve agent followed by a silver nitrate reaction can identify and discriminate nerve agents that have fluoride leaving groups from those nerve agents that have alkyl sulfide leaving groups. Substantially all G type nerve agents will have the fluoride leaving group and will not generate a precipitate. Substantially all V type nerve agents will have the alkylsulfide leaving group and a dark precipitate will be formed. Note that the base hydrolysis reaction of the unknown nerve agent and the subsequent silver nitrate reaction occur in detection window .

For one embodiment detection window includes a filter type substrate such as Whatman 1 paper. Ampoule contains a hydrolyzing reagent or buffer such as an alkaline solution or other suitable basic nucleophile e.g. 1N NaHCOwith a pH of about 8 or above to drive the base catalyzed hydrolysis of a sample contained in the filter type substrate. Ampoule contains a reagent for reacting with the leaving group of the hydrolyzed sample such as a silver nitrate solution e.g. 0.1N AgNO. Note that because silver nitrate is photosensitive the detection ticket is stored in an opaque aluminum foil pouch.

In operation the filter type substrate of detection window is exposed to a sample the alkaline solution is released from ampoule and onto the filter type substrate for hydrolyzing the sample the silver nitrate solution is released from ampoule and onto the filter type substrate and the leaving group of the hydrolyzed sample reacts with the silver nitrate solution. Note that the leaving group undergoes a precipitation reaction and produces a precipitate when a V type nerve agent is present in detection window causing detection window to turn dark. Substantially no observable precipitation occurs when a G type nerve agent is present in detection window and a soluble clear solution is produced that does not cause detection window to change color.

For one embodiment the sample may be determined to be a nerve agent using detection window and ampoules as described above before exposing detection window to the sample and analyzing the sample using detection window . That is by detection window turning white. For another embodiment detection window may be exposed by vaporizing a liquid or solid sample using sample heater assembly and heating element disposed over detection window . One may also directly deposit potential nerve agent sample directly on the nerve detection window using possibly a pipetting method.

Detector also includes a square shaped detection window selectively communicatively coupled to ampoules and as shown in . For one embodiment detection window and ampoules and are respectively modifications of detection window and ampoules and of detector . That is chemistry of detection window and the chemistry of the contents of ampoules and of detector have been changed to further identify between G type nerve agents or V type nerve agents. For one embodiment no color change or colorimetric reaction occurs in detection window when reagents from ampoules and are released into detection window when a G type nerve agent is present in detection window whereas at least a portion of detection window changes color e.g. to a rust color when reagents from ampoules and are released into detection window when a V type nerve agent is present in detection window .

Colored color comparators and are located above the backside of detection window as shown in . For one embodiment color comparators and are respectively of a yellow reddish color and a reddish violet color and respectively correspond to the color of detection window in the presence of two different types of V type nerve agent. Note that the two color changes are both consistent with detection of tertiary amine compounds that are present in all V type molecules. A clear comparator is also located above the backside of detection window as shown in and corresponds to the color of window in the presence a G type nerve agent. Note that colored color comparator and clear comparator are respectively modifications of purple blue color comparator and red purple color comparator of detector .

Identification of a G type nerve agent or V type nerve agent in detection window involves hydrolyzing the sample in detection window e.g. using the alkaline buffer solution e.g. 1N NaHCO other buffer or hydrolyzing agents described above in conjunction with detection window . The leaving group of the hydrolyzed sample is subsequently reacted with a polycarboxylic acid such as a tricarboxylic acid e.g. cis aconitic acid citric acid isocitric acid oxalic malonic acid etc. and an appropriate solvent e.g. acidic anhydride alcohol other acetic acid based solvents water etc.

Note that the leaving group of the VX molecule in has a tertiary nitrogen or tertiary amine in its structure. The polycarboxylic acid and the acidic anhydride react with the tertiary amine group of the VX molecule to produce a complex that has a rusty color. Note further that the leaving group of the GB molecule in does not have a tertiary nitrogen or tertiary amine in its structure but has just the lone fluorine atom that does not react with the polycarboxylic acid and acidic anhydride to produce a color change. Therefore another method for identifying G type and V type nerve agents is provided.

For one embodiment detection window includes a filter type substrate such as Whatman 1 paper treated e.g. impregnated with polycarboxylic acid e.g. cis aconitic acid. For example the cis aconitic acid may be dissolved in water e.g. 2 grams of cis aconitic acid for every 100 milliliters of water producing a cis aconitic acid water solution. The cis aconitic acid water solution e.g. 50 milliliters is then absorbed by the filter type substrate and the filter type substrate containing the cis aconitic acid water solution is subsequently air dried. Ampoule contains the buffer solution e.g. 1N NaHCO Ampoule contains the solvent e.g. acidic anhydride.

In operation the filter type substrate of detection window treated with a polycarboxylic acid is exposed to a sample the buffer solution is released from ampoule and onto the treated filter type substrate for hydrolyzing the sample and the solvent is released from ampoule and onto the alter type substrate containing the hydrolyzed sample. When a V type nerve agent is present in detection window the tertiary amine of the leaving group of the hydrolyzed sample reacts with the polycarboxylic acid and the solvent from ampoule producing a color change e.g. a yellow reddish color or a reddish violet color in detection window . When a G type nerve agent is present in detection window there is no tertiary amine to react with the polycarboxylic acid and the solvent from ampoule . Instead there is the lone fluorine atom that does not react with the polycarboxylic acid and solvent to produce a color change and no color change occurs in detection window . For one embodiment after the solvent is released from ampoule and onto the filter type substrate containing the hydrolyzed sample the filter type substrate containing the hydrolyzed sample and the solvent may be heated e.g. using sample heater assembly and heating element disposed over detection window . The heating acts to intensify the color change in the presence of V type nerve agent for some embodiments.

For one embodiment the sample may be determined to be a nerve agent using detection window and ampoules as described above before exposing detection window to the sample and analyzing the sample using detection window . That is by detection window turning white. For another embodiment detection window may be exposed by vaporizing a liquid or solid sample using sample heater assembly and heating element disposed over detection window . Detection window can also be exposed by directly depositing the solid or liquid sample on to that detection window using a pipetting method.

For other embodiments polycarboxylic acid e.g. a 2 grams 100 milliliters cis aconitic acid water solution may be contained in a third ampoule not shown that is selectively communicatively coupled to detection window rather than being impregnated in the filter type substrate of detection window . As such the filter type substrate does not contain any reagent. For these embodiments the plain filter type substrate is exposed to a nerve agent the buffer solution is released from ampoule and onto the filter type substrate containing the nerve agent for hydrolyzing the nerve agent the polycarboxylic acid is then added to the hydrolyzed nerve agent from the third ampoule and the solvent is released from ampoule and onto the filter type substrate containing the hydrolyzed nerve agent and the polycarboxylic acid. If the nerve agent is a V type nerve agent detection window exhibits a colorimetric reaction or turns a color such as reddish violet or a red yellowish hue. If the nerve agent is a G type nerve agent no color change occurs.

For one embodiment first numerals e.g. fives may be embossed on ampoules and of detector and second numerals may be embossed on ampoules and e.g. threes of detector as shown in where the first and second numerals are rotated by 180 degrees with respect to each other. During operation for another embodiment of detector reagent is released from the ampoules with the first numerals when the first numerals are right side up and the second numerals are upside down and detector is rotated by 180 degrees before reagent is released from the ampoules with the second numerals so that the reagent can be released from the ampoules with the second numerals when the second numerals are right side up and the first numerals are upside down.

Nerve agent detection identification system includes a detector that is configured for analyzing liquids solids or vapors. For one embodiment detector is similar to detector of and includes a starred detection window such as starred detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for nerve agents a circular detection window such as circular detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for blood a square detection window such as square detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the square detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for blister agents and a sample heater assembly and heating element such as sample heater assembly and heating element of detector for vaporizing liquids and solids For another embodiment detector may be a M256 LVHD Chemical Agent Detector.

Nerve agent detection identification system also includes a detector configured for analyzing vapors and gasses such as an M256A1 Chemical Agent Detector. Detector includes for one embodiment a starred detection window such as starred detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for nerve agents a circular detection window such as circular detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for blood and a square detection window such as square detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the square detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for blister agents. Nerve agent detection identification system also includes liquid chemical detection paper e.g. M9 paper and liquid chemical detection paper e.g. M8 paper.

Nerve agent detection identification system includes a detector such as detector of configured for analyzing liquid or solid nerve agents. For example for one embodiment detector includes a starred detection window such as starred detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for determining whether a nerve agent is present a circular detection window such as circular detection window and reagent ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for determining the nerve agent type a square detection window such as square detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the square detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for determining the nerve agent type and a sample heater assembly and heating element such as sample heater assembly and heating element of detector for vaporizing liquids and solids. Also directly depositing the sample on to these detection windows can also be performed for example with a pipet.

Detector is also included for analyzing gaseous and vaporous nerve agents e.g. detector of without a sample heater assembly and heating element. For example for one embodiment detector includes a starred detection window such as starred detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for determining whether a nerve agent is present a circular detection window such as circular detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for determining the nerve agent type and a square detection window such as square detection window of detector and reagent ampoules corresponding to the square detection window such as reagent ampoules of detector for determining the nerve agent type.

In operation for a suspected liquid or solid nerve agent the liquid or solid can be analyzed by detector for one embodiment as indicated by arrow for liquids and arrow for solids in . That is the suspected liquid or solid nerve agent is vaporized into the starred detection window of detector and if the starred detection window is white after the reagents axe released from the ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window into the starred detection window a nerve agent is present. If it is determined that a liquid nerve agent is present using detector as indicated by block the type of liquid nerve agent can be determined using M8 paper as indicated by arrows and of . That is if the M8 paper turns green as indicated by block a V type nerve agent is present as indicated by block if the M8 paper turns from green to brown as indicated by block a V type nerve agent is present as indicated by block or if the M8 paper turns yellow or gold as indicated by block a G type nerve agent is present as indicated by block . If it is determined that a liquid or solid nerve agent is present using detector as indicated by block the type of liquid or solid nerve agent can be determined using detector as indicated by arrow by using the sample heater assembly and heating element of detector with the circular detection window of detector and reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window and or with the square detection window of detector and reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the square detection window as described above in conjunction with .

For another embodiment the M8 paper may be exposed to a suspected liquid nerve agent before using detector or detector as indicated by arrows and . If the M8 paper turns green as indicated by block a possible V type nerve agent is present as indicated by block if the M8 paper turns from green to brown as indicated by block a possible V type nerve agent is present as indicated by block if the M8 paper turns yellow or gold as indicated by block a possible G type nerve agent is present as indicated by block .

After determining the possibility of a either a liquid V type nerve agent or a liquid G type nerve agent using the M8 paper the starred window of detector can be used as indicated by arrows and to determine whether the color change of the M8 paper is a false positive or is indicative of a nerve agent. Alternatively the starred window of detector can be used as indicated by arrows and to determine whether the color change of the M8 paper is a false positive or is indicative of a nerve agent. That is the liquid is vaporized from the M8 paper into the starred window of detector or and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window are released into the starred window. If the starred window of detector turns white indicating a liquid nerve agent as indicated by block a liquid V type nerve agent is present when the M8 paper is green or turns from green to brown or a G type nerve agent is present when the M8 paper is yellow or gold. Similarly if the starred window of detector turns white a liquid V type nerve agent is present when the M8 paper is green or turns from green to brown or a G type nerve agent is present when the M8 paper is yellow or gold.

The liquid can be vaporized from the M8 paper into the circular detection window and or the square detection window of detector . When the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window are subsequently released into the circular detection window the circular detection window will show no colorimetric reaction or color change when a G type nerve agent is present. Moreover when the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the square detection window are subsequently released into the square window the square window will show no colorimetric reaction or color change when a G type nerve agent is present. Note that a G type nerve agent is indicated when the starred window of detector or is white and the M8 paper is yellow or gold. Therefore nerve agent detect ion identification system provides three independent methods for identifying a G type nerve agent.

When the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window of detector are subsequently released into the circular window the circular window will turn dark or brown when a V type nerve agent is present. Moreover when the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the square detection window of detector are subsequently released into the square window the square window will exhibit a colorimetric reaction or color change e.g. by turning a rust color violet or a yellowish hue when a V type nerve agent is present. Note that a V type nerve agent is indicated when the starred window of detector or is white and the M8 paper is green or turns from green to brown. Therefore nerve agent detection identification system provides three independent methods for identifying a V type nerve agent.

For another embodiment the M9 paper may be exposed to a suspected liquid nerve agent before using detector or detector as indicated by arrows and . If the M9 paper does not change color as indicated by block no nerve agent is present as indicated by block . If the M9 paper turns red as indicated by block there is a possible nerve agent or blister present. This could be verified by placing the contaminated M9 in the sample heater assembly of detector e.g. the M256 LVHD and inserting the sample heater assembly over the square detection window for blister agents to verify if the M9 color change is due to a blister agent as indicated by block .

After determining the possibility of a liquid nerve agent using the M9 paper the starred window of detector can be used as indicated by arrows and to determine whether the color change of the M9 paper is indicative of a nerve agent. Alternatively the starred detection window of detector can be used as indicated by arrows and to determine whether the color change of the M9 paper is indicative of a nerve agent. That is the liquid is vaporized from the M9 paper into the starred detection window of detector or and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window are released into the starred window. If the starred detection window of detector turns white indicating a liquid nerve agent as indicated by block a liquid nerve agent is present when the M9 paper is red and the type of liquid nerve agent can be determined from detector as indicated by arrow by vaporizing the liquid nerve agent e.g. from the M9 paper into the circular detection window of detector and releasing reagents from the reagent ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window into the circular detection window and or by vaporizing the liquid nerve agent into the square detection window of detector and releasing the reagents from the reagent ampoules corresponding to the square detection window into the square detection window as described above in conjunction with . Similarly if the starred window of detector turns white a liquid nerve agent is present when the M9 paper is red and the type of liquid nerve agent can be determined from detector using circular detection window of detector and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window and or the square detection window of detector and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the square detection window.

For another embodiment detector can be used directly to analyze a suspect liquid nerve agent as indicated by arrow . That is the liquid is vaporized into the starred detection window of detector and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window are released into the starred detection window. If the starred detection window turns white a liquid nerve agent is present and the type of liquid nerve agent can be determined from detector using circular detection window of detector and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window and or the square detection window of detector and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the square detection window as described above in conjunction with .

For another embodiment a vapor or gas may be analyzed by detector as indicated by arrow . That is the starred detection window of detector is exposed to the vapor or gas and reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the starred detection window are released into the starred detection window. If the starred detection window is white a nerve agent is present as indicated by block . The type of vaporous or gaseous nerve agent can then be determined by detector as indicated by arrow . That is the circular detection window of detector is exposed to the vapor or gas and reagents are released into the circular detection window from the reagent ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window and or the square detection window of detector is exposed to the vapor or gas and reagents are released into the square detection window from the reagent ampoules corresponding to the square detection window as described above in conjunction with .

Alternatively a vapor or gas may be analyzed by detector directly as indicated by arrow . That is the starred detection window of detector is exposed to the vapor or gas and reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the square detection window are released into the starred detection window. If the starred detection window is white a nerve agent is present and the type of nerve agent is determined from the circular detection window of detector and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the circular detection window and or from the square detection window of detector and the reagents from the ampoules corresponding to the square detection window as described above in conjunction with .

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Many adaptations of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly this application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the invention. It is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

