---

title: Method and system for social bookmarking of resources exposed in web pages that don't follow the representational state transfer architectural style (REST)
abstract: A system for social bookmarking of a resource provided through a Web application that doesn't follow the representational state transfer architectural style (REST). When processing a request for a social bookmarking operation, the system searches for a URL and potentially other resource information within the document object model of a currently loaded Web page. If such resource information is found, it is used to process the requested social bookmarking operation. Otherwise, if such resource information is not found in the document object model, the system uses the URL stored in the location bar of the Web browser to process the requested social bookmarking operation. The system includes semantic information in the DOM of a Web page that is used to identify subsets of content within the Web page that can be socially bookmarked. The semantic information may be stored in what is generally referred to as “microformatting”.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08230320&OS=08230320&RS=08230320
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08230320
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061226
---
The present invention relates generally to social bookmarking systems and more specifically to a method and system for social bookmarking of resources exposed in Web pages that don t follow the representational state transfer architecture REST .

As it is generally known the term bookmarks has been used to refer to pointers primarily URLs Uniform Resource Locators that are stored by Web browser programs for the convenience of the local user. The primary purpose of these user specific locally stored and used bookmarks has been to catalog and provide access to Web pages that the local user has visited or plans to visit without requiring the user to remember their URLs.

More recently technologies providing social bookmarking have been introduced. In social bookmarking systems social bookmarks are shared with multiple users over the Internet. In a social bookmarking system users store lists of links to Internet resources that they find useful or interesting. These resource lists are accessible to other users e.g. to the general public or to a network of related users. Social bookmarking system users are able to rate and categorize resources using informally assigned user defined keywords or tags to create a folksonomy . The folksonomy provides aggregate page ratings across multiple users and relates users that have tagged the same page. Most social bookmarking services allow users to search for social bookmarks based on tags and rank resources by the number of users that have socially bookmarked them.

Many popular social bookmarking systems rely on Web applications using what is referred to as a representational state transfer REST architectural style for resource identification in which every resource is uniquely addressable using a universal syntax. However not all Web applications provide this type of resource identification.

Some existing Web applications encode the navigational state of a user s session within the URL Uniform Resource Locator that is sent over HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol . As a result no two users will obtain the same URL even though they are viewing the same resource.

Other existing Web applications have the opposite problem in which a single URL is used to represent many resources exposed through a Web page. This is the case in many recent AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML based Web applications in which the loaded Web browser URL is not changed even though the user requests and receives views of different resources exposed through the page. One example of such behavior may be observed when a user clicks to view an e mail electronic mail message in the Gmail client provided by Google . Even though the requested message is exposed to the user through the Web browser the current URL loaded in the Web browser is not changed. Web applications that use server session state e.g. a user identifier and or other session information may also result in mapping multiple resources to a single URL.

When exposed to either of the above described types of non RESTful existing systems social bookmarking systems do not perform as expected. Existing social bookmarking systems rely on the fact that a single URL represents a single resource on the Web. For Web sites in which a resource s URL is different for each visit two users will never be able to socially bookmark the resource with the same URL. This prevents a social bookmarking application from understanding a Web page as a single resource in its folksonomy. Web sites using a single URL to expose multiple resources in a Web page will cause false social bookmarking calculations resulting from the fact that the social bookmarking system believes two users have bookmarked the same resource when in fact they have attempted to bookmark different resources exposed within a single Web page.

Existing social bookmarking systems use bookmarklets to determine information about a Web page currently loaded in a Web browser. Bookmarklets are standard Web browser hyperlinks containing JavaScript. When a user clicks on a hyperlink button or the like provided by a bookmarklet the JavaScript of the bookmarklet executes to obtain information about the currently loaded Web page from the document object model DOM of the Web page. Such Web page information includes the URL of the Web page a title of the Web page and sometimes a description of the Web page. The bookmarklets for a social bookmarking service may be provided by the social bookmarking service. Bookmarklets perform social bookmarking operations such as adding a currently loaded Web page to the user s social bookmarks and or adding a tag to the currently loaded Web page in the bookmarking system. Existing bookmarklets generate pop up windows in the user interface providing a Web form hosted by the social bookmarking Web site. This Web form is often pre filled with information about the currently loaded Web page. A user can then add tags into the pop up window to categorize the currently loaded Web page and click on a submit button or the like to submit the added tags to the social bookmarking Web site. Some social bookmarking Web sites provide Web browser plug in that perform the same type of operations.

A shortcoming of existing systems related to social networking bookmarklets is the inability to obtain useful information from some Web sites regarding resources that they expose to the user without changing the currently loaded Web page. For example in some existing Web portals the title and description for portlet resources within the portal Web page are defined by the portal theme and not by the specific portlet. Similarly when a user requests a map through a map generation Web site the currently loaded Web page does not change when the map is loaded unless the user clicks on a Link option in the user interface. Accordingly when the user attempts to set social bookmarks to resources exposed through such Web sites different resources provided through a single Web page report the same title and may have no available description. As a result form fields in the bookmarklet generated pop up window are pre filled with the same information for multiple resources provided through the same Web page without reflecting the specific resource currently being viewed.

For the above reasons it would accordingly be desirable to have a new system for social bookmarking resources that does not rely on Web pages following the representational state transfer architectural style REST and that provides useful information regarding a resource exposed in a Web page without the user having to expressly link to the resource.

In order to address the above described and other shortcomings of the prior art a new method and system are disclosed for social bookmarking of a resource provided through a Web application that doesn t follow the representational state transfer architectural style REST . When processing a request for a social bookmarking operation the disclosed system searches for a URL and potentially other resource information within the document object model of a currently loaded Web page. If such resource information is found then it is used to process the requested social bookmarking operation. Otherwise if such resource information is not found in the document object model then the disclosed system may use the URL stored in the location bar of the Web browser to process the requested social bookmarking operation.

In one embodiment the disclosed system includes semantic information in the DOM of a Web page that can be used to identify socially bookmarkable resources exposed within the Web page so that those resources can be socially bookmarked in an external social bookmarking system. The semantic information is stored in what are referred to as microformats . In such an embodiment of the disclosed system a Web page publishes microformat information indicating bookmarkable resources in the Web page. The disclosed microformatting enables an external social bookmarking system to effectively include each of multiple resources exposed by single Web page independently in a folksonomy.

A Web page including an embodiment of the disclosed system includes microformatting indicating consistent URLs e.g. permalinks that can reliably be used for returning corresponding resources contained exposed by the Web page. Using the disclosed microformatting a social bookmarking engine can provide enhanced bookmarklets and or an enhanced browser plug in that scan the DOM for a currently loaded Web page prior to returning resource information such as the URL title and description of the Web page to the social bookmarking service. The disclosed system enables Web portal server environments and the like to associate the disclosed microformatting with portlet resources that are visible through a portal Web page enabling the user to effectively select and socially bookmark individual portal resources into an external social bookmarking system. A social bookmarking service can operate based on the disclosed microformatting in the DOM to provide a specialized user interface including social bookmarking and or tagging options e.g. within a drop down menu of socially bookmarkable resource titles in a pop up window Web form in a user interface in which one or more of the socially bookmarkable resources are outlined or shown with clickable options such as icons or through some other appropriate user interface. When the user selects one of the socially bookmarkable resources the disclosed system generates a pop up window with a social bookmarking form pre filled with information extracted from the microformatting corresponding to the socially bookmarkable resource where the information is specific to that socially bookmarkable resource e.g. title description permalink etc. Such capabilities advantageously allow first class user interface integration of existing social bookmarking engines into Web portal and Web applications.

Thus there is disclosed a new system for social bookmarking of a resource that does not rely on Web pages following the representational state transfer architectural style REST and that provides useful information regarding a resource exposed in a Web page without the user having to expressly link to the exposed resource.

The Bookmarklet or plug in may for example be made up of JavaScript and or other appropriate scripting language. When triggered the Bookmarklet or plug in accesses the Document Object Model DOM of the currently loaded Web page in order to generate one or more Social Bookmarking Operation User Interface Display Objects in the View of the currently loaded Web page in the Graphical User Interface . The DOM is built by a Web Browser executing on the Client Computer System in response to Markup e.g. HTML and or XML for the currently loaded Web page. The DOM is a tree structured description of how the currently loaded Web page is to be represented in the View within the Graphical User Interface . The DOM provides a structure that facilitates access to the elements of the HTML and or XML in the Web page Markup for the currently loaded Web page by scripting languages with object oriented features such as JavaScript within the Bookmarklet or plug in .

During operation of the illustrative embodiment shown in the Bookmarklet or plug in is installed from a Social Bookmarking Service executing on a Social Bookmarking Service Server Computer System . Such installation may for example be performed when the Local User signs up for or otherwise registers to use the Social Bookmarking Service . Also during operation of the embodiment shown in the Markup for the currently loaded Web page is loaded into the Web Browser during a Web page Download . The Web page Download is performed for example in response to the Local User using the Web Browser to navigate to the currently loaded Web page on a Web site provided by the Web Server Computer System .

Further during operation of the embodiment shown in the Local User accesses social bookmarking operations related to the Social Bookmarking Service such as socially bookmarking resources exposed through the currently loaded Web page tagging resources exposed through the currently loaded Web page etc. through the Social Bookmarking Operation User Interface Display Objects . For example the Local User clicks on a button or other display object generated by the Bookmarklet or plug in in order to socially bookmark a specific desired resource exposed in the View of the currently loaded Web page. Clicking on the button or the like causes the Bookmarklet or plug in to execute and to scan the DOM in order to find Socially Bookmarkable Resource Microformatting indicating one or more socially bookmarkable resources exposed in the currently loaded Web page. If such microformatting is found then resource information contained in the microformatting such a URL is used to socially bookmark a resource exposed in the View . Otherwise if no such microformatting is found then in one embodiment the disclosed system uses the URL of the currently loaded Web page that is stored in the location bar of the Web browser to socially bookmarking the resource.

In one embodiment of the disclosed system based on the Socially Bookmarkable Resource Microformatting in the DOM the Bookmarklet or plug in operate to provide one or more Resource Selection User Interface Display Objects to the Local User such as clickable icons outlines hyperlinks a pull down menu of resource titles or the like. The Resource Selection User Interface Display Objects may for example be displayed in close visual proximity to corresponding ones of potentially multiple socially bookmarkable resources in the currently loaded Web page. The Resource Selection User Interface Display Objects enable the Local User to indicate which of potentially multiple socially bookmarkable resources exposed to the Local User through the currently loaded Web page the Local User the Local User desires to perform a social bookmarking operation on.

The Bookmarklet or plug in also operates to provide an Operation Information User Interface Display Object e.g. a pop up window containing a user editable form pre filled with resource information specifically related to a user selected socially bookmarkable resource currently exposed within the View . The resource information is extracted from the Socially Bookmarkable Resource Microformatting contained in the DOM . The resource information pre filled into the Operation Information User Interface Display Object may for example in the case where the currently loaded Web page exposes multiple socially bookmarkable resources to the Local User be for a resource selected by the Local User through the Resource Selection User Interface Display Object . The pre filled resource information in the Operation Information User Interface Display Object is user editable and may consist for example of a URL such as a permalink PERManent LINK or the like that points to the socially bookmarkable resource and will remain unchanged a title associated with the socially bookmarkable resource a description i.e. summary of the socially bookmarkable resource and one or more suggested tags associated with the socially bookmarkable resource.

The permalink provided in the DOM as a URL for a socially bookmarkable resource in the disclosed system is a unique URL assigned to that socially bookmarkable resource that remains permanent for that resource. For example consistent with the use of permalinks in other contexts e.g. in blogs such a permalink may be made up of a base URL combined with one or more further identifying elements such as date time names and numbers or just a unique number. Thus through use of an index a Web site providing the resource through a Web page can keep track of the physical location of the resource and later convert the permalink to that address as needed to return the resource when it is subsequently requested using the permalink.

When the user has finished editing the resource information in the Operation Information User Interface Display Object the resource information is sent together with a user identifier for the Local User as Social Bookmarking Operation Information to the Social Bookmarking Service on the Social Bookmarking Service Server Computer System . The Social Bookmarking Service then stores the Social Bookmarking Information into a Folksonomy . The Folksonomy relates URLs Tags and Users provided to the Social Bookmarking Service through social bookmarking operations performed by users registered with the Social Bookmarking Service .

The Client Computer System Social Bookmarking Service Server Computer System and Web Server Computer System may be communicably connected using any specific kind of data communication network and or protocol. The Client Computer System Social Bookmarking Service Server Computer System and Web Server Computer System may each include at least one processor program storage such as memory and or another computer readable medium for storing program code e.g. the Web Browser and Bookmarklet or plug in executable on the processor and for storing data operated on by such program code e.g. the DOM and Folksonomy . The Client Computer System Social Bookmarking Service Server Computer System and Web Server Computer System may each further include one or more input output devices and or interfaces such as data communication and or peripheral devices and or interfaces. The Client Computer System Social Bookmarking Service Server Computer System and Web Server Computer System may further include appropriate operating system software.

At step the user invokes a social bookmarking operation e.g. by clicking on a tool bar button causing the bookmarklet or plug in to search the Web page s DOM for a microformatting element identifying a socially bookmarkable resource e.g. an element with class attribute of bookmark me . Step is followed by either step or step .

In step the bookmarklet or plug in finds microformatting in the DOM corresponding to a socially bookmarkable resource viewable on the Web page and accordingly uses resource information from the microformatting to process the social bookmarking operation invoked at step . Step is followed by step in which a social bookmarking operation resource information user interface consisting of a pop up window is generated with user editable form fields pre filled with resource information from the microformatting element for the socially bookmarkable resource e.g. URL description title suggested tags etc. . At step the user edits the pop up form and clicks OK to bookmark the resource locally or to submit the resource information in the form to the external social bookmarking system.

In the alternative case where step is followed by step at step the bookmarklet or plug in does not find microformatting in the DOM corresponding to the socially bookmarkable resource viewable on the Web page and therefore uses the URL from the location bar and the title of the currently loaded Web page to process the social bookmarking operation. Accordingly in such a case the disclosed system uses the URL from the location bar and the title of the currently loaded Web page to pre fill the form generated at step .

At step the user invokes a social bookmarking operation e.g. by clicking on a tool bar button or link provided through a tool bar in the Web browser . This causes the bookmarklet or plug in to search the currently loaded Web page s DOM for all microformatting elements identifying socially bookmarkable resources. Microformatting elements identifying socially bookmarkable resources may for example be microformatting elements with a predetermined class attribute e.g. bookmark me .

In a first embodiment shown in step is followed by step in which the bookmarklet or plug in modifies the DOM for the currently loaded Web page by displaying a clickable icon or some other clickable user interface object next to or within each socially bookmarkable resource viewable in the currently loaded Web page. After step at step when the user clicks on a clickable display object associated with a socially bookmarkable resource a pop up form is generated with resource information fields e.g. description suggested tags title URL pre filled with resource information from the microformatting element for that resource. Step is followed by step in which the user edits the resource information in the pop up form and clicks OK to bookmark the resource locally and or to submit the resource information to the social bookmarking service.

In another embodiment shown in step is followed by step in which the bookmarklet or plug in responds to the user hovering the cursor over the display of the currently loaded Web page and makes socially bookmarkable resources e.g. those elements of the bookmark me class visually prominent e.g. outlined and clickable themselves in the user interface when the cursor is hovered over them. Step is followed by step .

In an embodiment using the Microformatting Element shown in the bookmarklet and or browser plug in uses the JavaScript method document.getElementsByTagName span to get all the SPAN entries in the DOM and then loop through each of the located SPANs checking the class name in each for the value bookmark me . When a bookmark me SPAN is found the inner elements are added to the set of parameters used to generate a user editable pop up window for the Operation Information User Interface Display Object of . As shown in the inner elements could include resource information such as title url description and a set of suggested tags . If no matching SPAN s are found then the bookmarklet browser plug in may fall back to techniques of pulling off the location.href and document.title for the currently loaded Web page for use as resource information. Advantageously integration of such an embodiment of the disclosed system requires only an enhanced bookmarklet or plug in and no direct support by the social bookmarking service.

For example as shown in by clicking on the Social Bookmarking Operation Button the user causes the bookmarklet or plug in to display Resource Selection User Interface Display Object A and Resource Selection User Interface Display Object B as visual outlines and also including the Bookmark this entry text around the Socially Bookmarkable Resource A and the Socially Bookmarkable Resource B . In an alternative embodiment the Resource Selection User Interface Display Object A and Resource Selection User Interface Display Object B are displayed in response to the user hovering the cursor over the respective socially bookmarkable resources they surround. The disclosed system further operates to make either the Socially Bookmarkable Resources and and or the Resource Selection User Interface Display Objects and clickable either immediately when the user clicks on the button or when the user subsequently hovers the cursor over the respective socially bookmarkable resource. Through such clickable regions in the user interface the user is then able to indicate which of Socially Bookmarkable Resource A or Socially Bookmarkable Resource B they desire to socially bookmark. Accordingly if the user subsequently clicks on the clickable portion of the Socially Bookmarkable Resource A and or Resource Selection User Interface Object A the disclosed system provides an Operation Information User Interface Display Object pre filled with resource information associated with the Socially Bookmarkable Resource A . Alternatively if the user subsequently clicks on the clickable portion of the Socially Bookmarkable resource B and or Resource Selection User Interface Object the disclosed system provides an Operation Information User Interface Display Object pre filled with resource information associated with the Socially Bookmarkable Resource B .

As shown in the Social Bookmarking Operation Information Pop up window includes a url field pre filled with a permalink for the socially bookmarkable resource extracted from the microformatting information stored in the DOM. A description field is pre filled with a summary for the socially bookmarkable resource extracted from the microformatting information stored in the DOM. A notes field is provided so the user can enter their own notes regarding the socially bookmarkable resource and a tags field is pre filled with suggested tags extracted from the microformatting information stored in the DOM.

When the user clicks on the SAVE button the information in the fields of the Social Bookmarking Operation Information Pop up window is transmitted to the social bookmarking service for storing into a folksonomy.

The disclosed system can take the form of an entirely software embodiment an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment containing both software and hardware elements. The figures include block diagram and flowchart illustrations of methods apparatus s and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that each block in such figures and combinations of these blocks can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified in the block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function specified in the block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the block or blocks.

Those skilled in the art should readily appreciate that programs defining the functions of the present invention can be delivered to a computer in many forms including but not limited to a information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as ROM or CD ROM disks readable by a computer I O attachment b information alterably stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks and hard drives or c information conveyed to a computer through communication media for example using wireless baseband signaling or broadband signaling techniques including carrier wave signaling techniques such as over computer or telephone networks via a modem.

While the invention is described through the above exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that modification to and variation of the illustrated embodiments may be made without departing from the inventive concepts herein disclosed.

