---

title: Methods for the prediction of arrhythmias and prevention of sudden cardiac death
abstract: Methods and kits are provided for determining an increased likelihood of the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia, myocardial ischemia, congestive heart failure and other diseased conditions of the heart. The methods and kits comprise measuring serum NGF levels in a subject and detecting increases in NGF levels over baseline. The methods may further comprise initiating preventive therapy in response to a detected increase in serum NGF levels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07822474&OS=07822474&RS=07822474
owner: Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
number: 07822474
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061129
---
This application claims a priority to Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 741 172 filed on Nov. 30 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made in part with government support under Grant R01 HL66389 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government may have certain rights to this invention.

The invention generally relates to medical diagnostic methods and kits for the prediction of cardiac arrhythmias and the prevention of sudden cardiac death.

Sudden cardiac death SCD is a major public health problem that accounts for more than half of all cardiovascular deaths. SCD takes the lives of approximately 450 000 people in the United States each year more than lung cancer breast cancer stroke and AIDS combined. Most cases of SCD are due to ventricular arrhythmias and there is often an element of underlying ischemic heart disease. Ventricular tachycardia VT and ventricular fibrillation VF are different types of ventricular arrhythmias. VT is an abnormally fast ventricular heart rhythm which is by itself typically not fatal. VF is a chaotic ventricular heart rhythm which produces little or no net blood flow from the heart such that there is little or not net blood flow to the brain and other organs. VF if not terminated results in death. Patient groups most at risk of ventricular arrhythmias leading to SCD include those with an acute or chronic myocardial infarction. Accordingly deaths from SCD may be lowered by preventing the specific heart rhythm disturbances ventricular arrhythmias associated with it.

Different treatment options exist for SCD. The most common treatment includes implantable cardiac defibrillators ICD and drug therapy. Current ICD technology however only provides for the detection and recognition of an arrhythmia based on the sensed heart rate once it has already started. This leaves very little time to protect the individual from sudden cardiac death. Although there have been several attempts at developing new technology for predicting the onset of a cardiac arrhythmia many of these methods and systems appear to rely primarily on events occurring within the heart such as sensed heart rate and electrocardiography ECG . For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 308 094 discloses a method and device for predicting cardiac arrhythmias by gathering and processing electrocardiographic data such as intervals between heart beats RR series or other heart signals to predict the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia. U.S. Pat. No. 6 516 219 discloses a method and apparatus for forecasting arrhythmia based on real time intact intracardiac electrograms.

There currently exists no method of predicting cardiac arrhythmias well in advance of their occurrence that would allow for the institution of preventive and or ameliorative therapy. A method and kit for predicting the occurrence of arrhythmias that allows preventive measures to prevent sudden cardiac death would thus represent a great advance in the art.

Methods and kits are provided for determining an increased likelihood of the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia myocardial ischemia and or other diseased condition of the heart. The methods and kits disclosed herein generally comprise measuring the plasma and or serum levels of nerve growth factor or NGF in a patient and detecting increases in plasma and or serum level NGF as a predictor of cardiac arrhythmias. The methods of the present invention allow for the timely institution of preventive therapy for arrhythmia and or SCD.

Any one or more pharmacologic agent s may be used in connection with the delivery of therapy. Such pharmacologic agents may include those which are effective in treating cardiac arrhythmias myocardial ischemia congestive heart failure and any other diseased condition of the heart. Pharmacologic agents which may be used in connection with the delivery of anti arrhythmic therapy may include but are not limited to those which are known to exert anti arrhythmic effect such as sodium channel blockers blockers potassium channel blockers such as amiodarone and solatol and calcium channel blockers such as verapamil and diltiazem. Pharmacologic agents suitable for the treatment of myocardial ischemia may include but are not limited to statins angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors aspirin beta blockers calcium channel blockers and nitrates. Other suitable pharmacologic agents may include anti convulsant agents including but not limited to phenytoin carbamazepine valproate and phenobarbitone to name a few which are believed to have anti arrhythmic effect.

The methods and kits of the present invention permit the rapid noninvasive detection and measurement of serum and or plasma NGF for the prediction of an occurrence of arrhythmia and or SCD requiring early therapeutic intervention. The above and other objects features and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description of the preferred embodiments.

Methods and systems are disclosed for determining an increased likelihood of the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia and for the prevention of SCD. The methods and systems disclosed herein comprise measuring serum and or plasma NGF levels of a patient and determining an increase in baseline serum and or plasma NGF levels in the patient beyond normal values of about 10 ng ml. In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides a method for determining an increased likelihood of the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia comprising measuring serum and or plasma NGF levels in a subject and detecting pan increase in said NGF levels. In another preferred embodiment of the present invention a kit is provided for the rapid non invasive detection and measurement of serum and or plasma NGF levels for the prediction of cardiac arrhythmias.

A significant advantage of the present invention is its speed and non invasiveness. For example patients peripheral veins may be used to obtain small amounts of serum for detection and measurement of NGF levels. The present invention eliminates the need for invasive procedures and the test results can be almost instantly obtained.

The serum NGF levels of a patient may be monitored by assays well known in the art such as but not limited to immunoassays including enzyme linked immunoassays ELISA . Commercial kits are also available for measuring NGF levels. Commercially available NGF kits include the Promega NGF Emax ImmunoAssay for example which provides optimized reagents and a protocol for the sensitive and specific detection of biologically active nerve growth factor. The assay uses horseradish peroxidase conjugated secondary antibody and a single component TMB substrate for the final chromogenic detection of bound NGF.

 NGF or nerve growth factor described herein preferably refers to beta NGF and more preferably to the mature form of beta NGF.

Antibodies useful in the immunoassay based methods and kits of the present invention include polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies chimeric single chain and humanized antibodies as well as Fab fragments including the products of a Fab or other immunoglobulin expression library. With respect to antibodies the term immunologically specific refers to antibodies that bind to one or more epitopes of NGF but which do not substantially recognize and bind other molecules in a sample containing a mixed population of antigenic biological molecules.

Antibodies useful in the kits and methods of the present invention are those exhibiting specific binding affinity for NGF i.e. the antibody binds to NGF with greater affinity than it binds to other compounds under specified conditions. Antibodies or antibody fragments having specific binding affinity to NGF may be used in kits and methods for detecting the presence and or amount of NGF in a sample by contacting the sample with the antibody or antibody fragment under conditions such that an immunocomplex forms and detecting the presence and or amount of the compound conjugated to the antibody or antibody fragment.

The term polyclonal refers to antibodies that are heterogeneous populations of antibody molecules derived from the sera of animals immunized with an antigen or an antigenic functional derivative thereof. For the production of polyclonal antibodies various host animals may be immunized by injection with the antigen. Various adjuvants may be used to increase the immunological response depending on the host species.

 Monoclonal antibodies are substantially homogenous populations of antibodies to a particular antigen. They may be obtained by any technique that provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture. Monoclonal antibodies may be obtained by methods known to those skilled in the art. See for example Kohler et al. Nature 256 495 497 1975 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 376 110.

The term antibody fragment refers to a portion of an antibody often the hypervariable region and portions of the surrounding heavy and light chains that displays specific binding affinity for a particular molecule. A hypervariable region is a portion of an antibody that physically binds to the target compound. The term antibody fragment also includes single charge antibodies.

The present invention provides antibodies capable of immunospecifically binding to NGF in order to measure plasma or serum NGF levels. Polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies directed towards NGF may be prepared according to standard methods. Monoclonal antibodies may be prepared according to general hybridoma methods of Kohler and Milstein Nature 1975 256 495 497 the trioma technique the human B cell hybridoma technique Kozbor et al. Immunology Today 1983 4 72 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al. Monoclonal Antibodies And Cancer Therapy pp. 77 96 Alan R. Liss Inc. 1985 .

Antibodies utilized in the present invention may be polyclonal antibodies although monoclonal antibodies are preferred because they may be reproduced by cell culture or recombinantly and may be modified to reduce their antigenicity. Polyclonal antibodies may be raised by a standard protocol by injecting a production animal with an antigenic composition formulated as described above. See e.g. Harlow and Lane Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1988. In one such technique an NGF antigen comprising an antigenic portion of the NGF polypeptide is initially injected into any of a wide variety of mammals e.g. mice rats rabbits sheep or goats . Alternatively in order to generate antibodies to relatively short peptide portions of NGF a superior immune response may be elicited if the polypeptide is joined to a carrier protein such as ovalbumin BSA or KLH. The peptide conjugate is injected into the animal host preferably according to a predetermined schedule incorporating one or more booster immunizations and the animals are bled periodically. Polyclonal antibodies specific for NGF may then be purified from such antisera by for example affinity chromatography using the polypeptide coupled to a suitable solid support.

Alternatively for monoclonal antibodies hybridomas may be formed by isolating the stimulated immune cells such as those from the spleen of the inoculated animal. These cells are then fused to immortalized cells such as myeloma cells or transformed cells which are capable of replicating indefinitely in cell culture thereby producing an immortal immunoglobulin secreting cell line. The immortal cell line utilized is preferably selected to be deficient in enzymes necessary for the utilization of certain nutrients. Many such cell lines such as myelomas are known to those skilled in the art and include for example thymidine kinase TK or hypoxanthine guanine phosphoriboxyl transferase HGPRT . These deficiencies allow selection for fused cells according to their ability to grow on for example hypoxanthine aminopterinthymidine medium HAT .

Preferably the immortal fusion partners utilized are derived from a line that does not secrete immunoglobulin. The resulting fused cells or hybridomas are cultured under conditions that allow for the survival of fused but not unfused cells and the resulting colonies screened for the production of the desired monoclonal antibodies. Colonies producing such antibodies are cloned expanded and grown so as to produce large quantities of antibody see Kohler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference .

Large quantities of monoclonal antibodies from the secreting hybridomas may then be produced by injecting the clones into the peritoneal cavity of mice and harvesting the ascites fluid therefrom. The mice preferably primed with pristine or some other tumor promoter and immunosuppressed chemically or by irradiation may be any of various suitable strains known to those in the art. The ascites fluid is harvested from the mice and the monoclonal antibody purified therefrom for example by CM Sepharose column or other chromatographic means. Alternatively the hybridomas may be cultured in vitro or as suspension cultures. Batch continuous culture or other suitable culture processes may be utilized. Monoclonal antibodies are then recovered from the culture medium or supernatant.

In addition the antibodies or antigen binding fragments may be produced by genetic engineering. In this technique as with the standard hybridoma procedure antibody producing cells are sensitized to the desired antigen or immunogen. The messenger RNA isolated from the immune spleen cells or hybridomas is used as a template to make cDNA using PCR amplification. A library of vectors each containing one heavy chain gene and one light chain gene retaining the initial antigen specificity is produced by insertion of appropriate sections of the amplified immunoglobulin cDNA into the expression vectors. A combinatorial library is constructed by combining the heavy chain gene library with the light chain gene library. This results in a library of clones which co express a heavy and light chain resembling the Fab fragment or antigen binding fragment of an antibody molecule . The vectors that carry these genes are co transfected into a host e.g. bacteria insect cells mammalian cells or other suitable protein production host cell. . When antibody gene synthesis is induced in the transfected host the heavy and light chain proteins self assemble to produce active antibodies that can be detected by screening with the antigen or immunogen.

Antibodies that are immunologically specific to NGF or specific epitopes thereof may be utilized to quantify the protein utilizing techniques such as western blotting and ELISA or to immuno precipitate NGF from a sample containing a mixture of proteins and other biological materials. The methods and kits of the present invention are further suitable for use with surface enhanced laser desorption ionization time of flight SELDI TOF which is another proteomic technology involved in quantitative analysis of protein mixtures. This technique utilizes stainless steel or aluminum based supports or chips engineered with chemical hydrophilic hydrophobic pre activated normal phase immobilized metal affinity and cationic or anionic or biological antibody antigen binding fragments e.g. scFv DNA enzyme or receptor bait surfaces of 1 2 mm in diameter. These varied chemical and biochemical surfaces allow differential capture of proteins based on the intrinsic properties of the proteins themselves. Solubilized tissue or body fluids in volumes as small as 0.1 l are directly applied to these surfaces where proteins with affinities to the bait surface will bind. Following a series of washes to remove non specifically or weakly bound proteins the bound proteins are laser desorbed and ionized for mass spectrophotometric analysis. SELDI TOF technology can further be coupled with tandem mass spectrometers for protein identification.

While immunoassays are preferred embodiments of the present invention due to their ease of use other techniques for the detection and measurement of serum and or plasma NGF levels are within the scope of the present invention.

Serum or plasma levels of NGF predictive of an occurrence of arrhythmia may be determined with reference to the normal baseline NGF levels in a patient and or patient population. For example a 2.5 fold or greater increase in serum or plasma NGF may be used as predictive of an occurrence of arrhythmia. Upon detection of an increase in serum NGF levels the patient or physician may then take precautionary or therapeutic measures to avoid or reduce the likelihood of an impending cardiac arrhythmia or other diseased condition of the heart. The physician can then administer suitable therapeutic drugs or adjust the drug dosage for patients already receiving therapy and thus prevent arrhythmia ischemia or sudden death. Suitable therapy for use in connection with the methods and systems are known in the art and may include any one or a combination of the following delivering one or more pharmacological agents stimulating myocardial hyperinnervation in the sinus node and right ventricle of the heart of the patient and cardiac pacing cardioversion or defibrillation shocks. Pharmacologic therapeutic agents may include those which are known to exert an anti arrhythmic effect such as sodium channel blockers blockers potassium channel blockers such as amiodarone and solatol and calcium channel blockers such as verapamil and diltiazem.

Other suitable anti arrhythmic pharmacologic agents include anti convulsant agents such as phenytoin carbamazepine valproate and phenobarbitone. Anti convulsants work by selectively suppressing high frequency neuronal discharges in the central and peripheral nervous system. Anti convulsants are also known to suppress cardiac sympathetic nerve discharges. Because of the importance of the autonomic nervous system in arrhythmogenesis drugs that prevent the release of adrenergic neurotransmitters may thereby decrease the sympathetic outflow are useful for controlling cardiac arrhythmia.

It has been shown for example that phenytoin can also be used to suppress cardiac arrhythmia induced by digitalis toxicity. The action of phenytoin is related to use and frequency dependent selective suppression of high frequency neuronal activity. The molecular mechanism for this is a voltage dependent blockade of membrane sodium channels responsible for the action potential. Through this action phenytoin obstructs the positive feedback that underlies the development of maximal seizure activity.

Anti convulsants may block the sympathetic nerve discharges through two actions. One is frequency dependent block of sodium currents and the second is a block of calcium currents. A combined channel blockade may account for the effects of anticonvulsant drugs. In addition to epilepsy anti convulsants such as phenytoin and carbamazepine are also useful in treating neuropathic pain which is characterized by abnormal spontaneous and increased evoked activity from damaged areas of the peripheral nervous system.

Other suitable pharmacologic agents may also be used for the treatment of myocardial ischemia and may include but are not limited to statins angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors aspirin beta blockers calcium channel blockers and nitrates.

The methods and kits described herein are merely illustrative of the principles of the invention which may be implemented in alternative embodiments to achieve other ends than those specifically described herein. Accordingly the following examples are set forth for the purpose of illustration only and are not construed as limitations on the methods and kits disclosed herein.

Previous reports have indicated that radiofrequency catheter ablation RFCA in humans is associated with a significantly increased plasma nerve growth factor NGF concentration. Whether or not the magnitude of NGF increase is predictive of post ablation atrial fibrillation AF recurrence is not clear. 17 patients who underwent RFCA for AF N 15 or with atrial flutter N 2 were studied. The latter 2 patients also had AF before procedure. The mean age was 51 8.8 years and 12 patients were men. The procedure time was 308 58 min for AF ablation which included Lasso guided 4 pulmonary vein PV ostial ablation and creating cavotricupid isthmus block. The procedure times were 165 63 min for atrial flutter ablation which included cavotricuspid isthmus block only. Average RF application was 73.5 15.2 min for AF and 52.9 47 min for atrial flutter. The patients were followed up for 11 1 months during which 6 patients had recurrent AF N 5 or atrial flutter N 1 . In 2 of the 6 patients the AF was transient. The remaining 11 patients had no recurrence of arrhythmia. The 6 patients with AF recurrence had NGF increased from 7.36 3.01 ng ml immediately after ablation to 36.60 26.63 ng ml in postoperative day POD 1 and 30.01 19.81 ng ml in POD 2. The average increase was 5.05 3.75 fold range 1.77 to 11.83 in POD 1. In contrast the 11 patients without AF recurrence had NGF increased from 17.21 12.93 ng ml immediately post ablation to 26.43 17.60 ng ml in POD 1. The average increase was 1.79 0.57 fold range 0.88 2.53 P 0.039 compared with patients with recurrence in POD1. Among the 6 patients with recurrent AF or flutter 4 had an NGF increase of 2.53 fold. Therefore a NGF increase of 2.53 fold in POD1 is associated with 67 probability of post ablation arrhythmia recurrence. On the other hand if the NGF increase is 2.53 fold there is an 85 11 13 probability that the patient will be arrhythmia free during follow up. Thus it was found that there was a significant association between the magnitude of NGF increase and the post ablation AF recurrence in patients undergoing radiofrequency catheter ablation.

In a canine model acute myocardial infarction AMI results in an upregulation of nerve growth factor NGF expression in the myocardium with peak activity at 1 week after MI. The total blood NGF rapidly increased after AMI and stayed high for at least one month. The increased NGF was associated with cardiac nerve sprouting which contributes to arrhythmogenesis after MI. It was hypothesized that human patients with AMI might show similar increases in NGF levels with its resulting consequences.

Methods. Blood was drawn simultaneously from aorta and culprit coronary artery in ten AMI acute myocardial infarction patients undergoing urgent cardiac catheterization. Serum NGF concentrations was quantified by using enzyme linked immunosorbant assay. In each patient the time between blood sampling and the onset of chest discomfort was recorded

Results There were 9 males and 1 female. The mean age was 63 yrs range 42 to 82 . There was no significant difference between the aortic and coronary arterial NGF levels in each patient. Patients with AMI 6 hours had significantly higher aortic 235 131 ng ml and coronary artery 225 128 ng ml NGF levels than patients with AMI

There is a time dependent increase in systemic NGF concentrations in AMI patients. Increased NGF concentrations following AMI may cause increased cardiac nerve sprouting resulting in an increases risk for serious ventricular arrhythmias.

