---

title: Location aware, on demand, media delivery to remote devices
abstract: A method, system and computer program and method for delivering a streaming data to a remote device from a wireless transmitter. In one embodiment, a transmitter is configured to send units of the streaming data to the remote device. A receiver is configured to receive usage data about the streaming data from the remote device. An adjusting module is configured to automatically adjust a transmission strategy of unsent units of the streaming data based, at least in part, on the usage data as a function of time according to a transmission policy. The usage data may include at least location information about the remote device or time of day information at the remote device. A user interface at the remote device may be configured to adjust the predefined transmission policy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07647037&OS=07647037&RS=07647037
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07647037
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060131
---
The present invention relates generally to computer networks and more specifically to techniques for wireless delivery of streaming data such as media presentations to remote devices.

Wireless transmission of media presentations such as movies music and photos is generally more costly than transmission using conventional wired connections. Nevertheless there appears to be little capability in the conventional art to help users manage the costs of media presentation transmission to remote devices.

Furthermore mobile video devices such as cellular phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs wireless laptops and tablets etc. receive dramatically varying signal qualities as the receiver moves about. When reception is poor a streaming media presentation may appear jerky resolution may decrease and artifacts may be introduced that detract from the user s enjoyment of the media presentation. For example when signal quality degrades large black areas may be seen moving around a video display. The conventional art however has failed to adequately provide remote device with user control over a transmission strategy in response to variations in signal quality.

One exemplary aspect of the present invention is a method for delivering a streaming data to a remote device from a wireless transmitter. The method includes a sending operation for sending a first portion of the streaming data to the remote device using a transmission strategy. A receiving operation is configured to receive usage data from the remote device. The method then adjusts the transmission strategy based at least in part on the usage data according to a transmission policy. A second sending operation sends a second portion of the streaming data to the remote device according to the adjusted transmission strategy.

The usage data may include at least location information about the remote device or time of day information at the remote device. The usage data may also include signal reception quality data about the first portion of the streaming data. The method may further include steps of providing a user interface at the remote device for adjusting the transmission policy and receiving the transmission policy from the remote device. It is further contemplated that automatically adjusting the transmission strategy includes adjusting a number of error correction bits transmitted along with the streaming media presentation adjusting an uninterrupted portion length of the streaming media presentation sent to the remote device data cached or pre buffered onto the device for later use and or pre buffering additional transmitters proximate the remote device where it is at the given time and where it is predicted to be based on current usage data and historical usage data with the streaming data.

Another exemplary aspect of the present invention is a system for delivering a media data to a remote device from a wireless transmitter. The system includes a transmitter configured to send units of the media data to the remote device. A receiver is configured to receive usage data about the media data from the remote device. An adjusting module is configured to automatically adjust a transmission strategy of unsent units of the media data based at least in part on the usage data as a function of time according to a transmission policy.

Yet another exemplary aspect of the present invention is a computer program product with computer readable program codes for delivering a streaming data to a remote device from a wireless transmitter. The computer readable program codes are configured to cause the program to send a first portion of the streaming data to the remote device using a transmission strategy receive usage data from the remote device automatically adjust the transmission strategy based at least in part on the usage data according to a transmission policy and send a second portion of the streaming data to the remote device according to the adjusted transmission strategy.

A further exemplary aspect of the present invention is a remote device suitable for presenting streaming data. The remote device includes a receiving unit configured to receive the streaming data. A characterizing unit is configured to characterize a transmission strategy. A user interface coupled to the characterizing unit is configured to enable a user of the remote device to specify the transmission policy while the receiving unit is receiving the streaming data.

The subject of the present invention relates to the delivery of media presentations to remote devices in a customizable and economical manner. Throughout the description of the invention reference is made to . When referring to the figures like structures and elements shown throughout are indicated with like reference numerals.

The media presentation may be streaming media. As used herein streaming media also referred to herein as streaming data is data that is presented to the user while it is being transmitted. The streaming media may be temporarily buffered in the remote device s memory to help cushion the effects of abrupt changes in the media presentation s transmission rate because of for example reduced signal strength or a signal outage. The media presentation may include but is not limited to audio visual text and binary data. Applications executing at the remote device are utilized to present the media presentation to the device user.

The server may also store a transmission policy . As described in detail below the transmission policy includes media presentation delivery rules customized to the preferences of the remote device user. Transmission policy may indicate for example the remote device user s preferred balance of media presentation quality and transmission cost. The transmission policy may also describe among other things whether simultaneous transmissions of the media presentation are allowed the amount of presentation caching available and historical usage data of the remote device. The transmission policy is adjustable at the remote device via a user interface. Thus a copy of the transmission policy stored at the remote device is accessible to the server through the computer network .

The computer network may include a combination of wired and wireless connections. Wireless communications within the network may utilize for example audio radio and or optical carrier frequencies. The computer network may be a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a piconet or a combination thereof. It is contemplated that the computer network may be configured as a public network such as the Internet and or a private network such as an Intranet or other proprietary communication system. Various topologies and protocols known to those skilled in the art may be exploited by the network such as WiFi Bluetooth R TCP IP UDP GSM and CDMA. Furthermore the computer network may include various networking devices known in the art such as routers switches bridges repeaters etc.

As is described in detail below the present invention beneficially enables automatic control over a multimedia presentation s future transmission strategy by examining a remote device s current usage data. As used herein usage data is defined as feedback from the remote device that includes at least location data or time of day data. Usage data may include additional information such as signal strength error frequency packet acknowledgement device identification etc. In one configuration of the invention usage data is sent from the remote device to the server . In response the server automatically adjusts the transmission strategy of the multimedia presentation according to the transmission policy when necessary.

For example usage data from the remote device may indicate the remote device will soon be moving from a geographic region serviced by transmission station A to a geographic region serviced by transmission station B . With this information the server may instruct transmission station B to preload its memory buffer with the media presentation in order to avoid interruption of the presentation during the anticipated transmission station handoff. Thus when reception is poor the server may change the current transmission strategy and trade robustness for other presentation qualities so that for instance poor media artifacts are few and occur less frequently in exchange for degraded presentation resolution or a smaller presentation size. Such modifications of the presentation may be more pleasant for the user to see and or hear.

It is contemplated that the usage data from the remote device may provide an assortment of information to the server . For example the usage data may include a position and time of the device . With such information the server can calculate the remote device s velocity and direction. Alternatively the usage data may include historical usage patterns that may predict the user s movements over time. The historical usage patterns may pertain to the behavior of the particular remote device receiving the media presentation or to the general behavior of other remote devices proximate in location and time of day.

In addition to loading a transmission station s memory buffer in anticipation of a transmitter handoff other transmission strategies are contemplated by the present invention. One transmission strategy contemplated includes instructing the remote device s memory buffer to cache more or less of the media presentation in response to the usage data. For example the memory buffer may increase the amount of media presentation cached when the usage data indicates a pending communication loss between the remote device and its transmission station . Another transmission strategy may include increasing or decreasing the number of transmission stations simultaneously communicating with the remote device . Further transmission strategies contemplated by the present invention include adjusting the number error correcting bits in the transmission signal to the remote device reshuffling the bit order of the transmission to the remote device and or changing the data transmission rate of the transmitted signal. Additional transmission strategies may be implemented in accordance with the present invention as described below.

In a particular embodiment of the invention the transmission policy is controlled by the remote device s user based on his or her preferences. Specifically a user interface may be provided at the remote device allowing its user to specify the quality verses price tradeoff desired during transmission. Thus the user interface for example may allow the user to indicate that once the data quality of the media presentation falls below an acceptable threshold additional bandwidth will be purchased by the user. This scenario may occur if the quality of the media presentation is very important to the user s enjoyment of the presentation. Conversely the user may indicate that if the data quality increases above a ceiling threshold less bandwidth is desired. This scenario may occur when the remote device s hardware is not designed to display the media presentation in high quality such as a small cellular phone display and a resolution beyond the device s capabilities does not enhance the presentation. Thus there may be are many reasons for a user to desire an economical or moderate bandwidth. Embodiments of the present invention allow remote devices that are not as advanced or miniaturized to receive low resolution video and still participate in the media presentation without having to process or pay for extra information that cannot be effectively presented to the user.

Turning to an exemplary dialog box at the remote device for specifying various transmission policies is shown. It is contemplated that the dialog box may be constructed using a choice of technologies known to those skilled in the art. For example the dialog box may be created using different user interface toolkits and languages such as Swing AWT Abstract Windowing Toolkit XUL XML User interface Language and various operating system APIs Application Programming Interfaces . In addition the dialog box may be invoked any time during transmission of the media presentation thus enabling the user to dynamically modify a transmission policy and receive instant feedback.

Section of the dialog box includes a slide bar allowing the user to select the desired balance of data quality and cost. As mentioned above the quality of a media presentation is often in direct relation to the bandwidth used to transmit the presentation the more bandwidth used the greater the presentation quality. Greater bandwidth however generally costs more money. Hence section permits the user to specify a preferred cost to quality balance. Among the factors affecting this preference may be the user s budget the importance placed on the media presentation and the remote device s performance capabilities. Setting a transmission policy based on the user s preferences for an appropriate quality price tradeoff can help establish a desirable price for the presentation.

Section of the dialog box includes Yes No radio buttons and a slide bar to enable simultaneous transmissions of the media presentation to the remote device. It is contemplated that a media presentation transmission policy may include increases to the number of transmission stations broadcasting to the remote device when the presentation quality drops below an acceptable level. Consequently the remote device could select the strongest transmission signal and hopefully improve the presentation quality. Thus section allows the user to activate this transmission strategy feature and control its utilization.

Section of the dialog box includes Yes No radio buttons to enable pre caching of transmitters before a predicted transmitter hand off. This transmission policy feature leverages prediction information about the next transmitter station switch. For example if a media server is aware that a remote device is being used on a train with a predetermined travel path and schedule transmission stations along the travel path may be cached with the media presentation. Pre caching transmitters with the media presentation can help prevent an interruption of the presentation when the handoff does occur.

Section of the dialog box includes Yes No radio buttons to enable location awareness of the remote device for transmission quality prediction. This transmission policy uses the remote device s location to adjust the media presentation transmission. For example if a media server is aware that a remote device is traveling to an area where poor transmission reception is expected the server may proactively respond in a manner that helps maintain the current presentation quality such as pre caching on the remote device or increasing error correction bits. Thus as used herein a location aware strategy examines the physical position and direction of a remote device and predicts the future reception of the remote device based on the past history of the remote device or similar devices.

Section of the dialog box enables the user to increase memory caching at the remote device if poor reception is predicted. This transmission policy feature involves sending more of the media presentation to the remote device in anticipation of poorer transmission conditions in the near future. In other words the remote device can automatically adjust the quantity of local memory dedicated to temporarily store the media presentation in anticipation of future transmission conditions.

Section of the dialog box asks the user for permission to record usage time history in order to predict reception quality. This transmission policy involves finding patterns correlating usage time with reception quality. For example if a particular user routinely travels at noontime in an elevator with poor reception before exiting a building for lunch the server may take measures to ensure continued reception quality such as pre caching during this time period.

Section of the dialog box includes Yes No radio buttons to enable using historical patterns of other users to predict transmission quality of the current remote device. For example it may be the case that a geographical region is poorly served by a particular transmitter station during rush hour traffic and the historical data of other devices bears this out. Thus this transmission policy feature relies on the transmission data from other devices rather than from the user s remote device.

As the user adjusts the various aspects of the transmission policy at the remote device it is saved locally within the memory of the remote device. In one embodiment of the invention whenever a new presentation is prepared for delivery to the remote device the presentation server requests and downloads the transmission policy from the media device if available. In this manner the user can specify his or her preferences once for several presentation delivery services. Alternatively the remote device may automatically update a transmission policy record residing at one or more presentation servers every time the user amends the transmission policy.

In an exemplary transmission system and remote device contemplated by the present invention is shown. The transmission system includes both a media server and a transmitter station. Receiving module at the transmission system is configured to receive a unit of media presentation from a computer network . The unit of media may be formatted using various encoding methods known in the art and may contain various types of media such as text sound and images. The media may further include identification of a remote device to receive the media.

Upon receiving the media presentation the transmission system may retrieve a transmission policy record stored in memory and associated with the identified remote device. Alternatively the transmission system may retrieve a transmission policy stored at the remote device . After receiving the media unit changing module applies any necessary transmission strategy changes to the media unit according to the transmission policy. Once changing module has performed any necessary changes the media unit is presented to transmitting unit .

At transmitting unit the media unit is transmitted to the remote device . As mentioned above transmissions to and from the transmission system and the remote device may be achieved using known wireless transmission methods such as WiFi Bluetooth LASER transmission and cellular transmission. Other known transmission methods may also be implemented without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. At the transmission system control returns to receiving module where the next media unit is processed. At the remote device receiving module receives the transmitted media unit.

Receiving module captures the media unit passed by the transmitting module and passes it to detecting module . At detecting module the remote device determines if the media unit contains any errors. It is contemplated that various methods for detecting errors may be employed by the present invention such as comparing the transmitted contents to a transmitted checksum value. If detecting module determines errors are present in the media unit control passes to characterizing module . Characterizing module identifies the detected errors and creates a description of the current transmission quality. If detecting module does not detect errors in the media unit control returns to receiving module where the next transmitted media unit is ready to be received.

Adjusting module checks whether the user desires more or less bandwidth for the present media presentation transmission. Adjusting module may for example receive an event notification that a user interface widget such as a button or slide bar for adjusting the bandwidth has been activated. If adjusting module resolves that a change in bandwidth is desired control passes to characterizing module where a description of desired bandwidth is created.

Transmission module receives information from characterization modules and . The transmission module packages the collected information and returns it to the transmission system . At the transmission system a feedback receiver obtains the collected information from the remote device . The feedback receiver forwards the information to determining module .

Determining module checks if the remote device reported any transmission errors. If so changing module is utilized to amend the current transmission strategy as required. For example changing module may increase the number of error correcting bits transmitted with the units of media. It should be noted that the transmission strategy may not require amending even if errors were detected by the remote device . If no errors were perceived by the determining module control moves directly to determining module .

Determining module checks if the remote device desires more or less transmission bandwidth. If bandwidth change is desired control passes to changing module . Changing module increases and decreases the bandwidth utilized to transmit the media presentation to the remote device. A decrease in bandwidth may help lower delivery costs of the media presentation. On the other hand an increase in bandwidth may improve the media presentation quality at the remote device . The present invention beneficially gives the remote device user the power to compare the presentation delivery costs against the presentation quality. Furthermore the user can control how much is bandwidth and other resources and their associated expense are allocated to the media presentation to achieve the desired presentation quality. After changing the bandwidth or transmission strategy at modules or control returns to changing module where the changes are performed for the next media unit received by the transmission station . If no bandwidth change is needed control passes from determining module to changing module .

In an exemplary flowchart for delivering a streaming media presentation to a remote device from a transmitter is shown. It should be remarked that the logical operations shown may be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer executed steps running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine modules within the computing system. Furthermore the operations may be performed on a virtual machine abstracted in a computer platform such as the Java Virtual Machine JVM executing over a native operating system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of the system implementing the invention. Accordingly the logical operations making up the embodiments of the present invention described herein are referred to alternatively as operations steps or modules.

Operational flow begins with sending operation . During sending operation a first portion of a media presentation is sent to a remote device using a transmission strategy. The initial transmission strategy may be a default strategy chosen by the device user. In one embodiment of the invention the default transmission strategy is selected by means of a user interface allowing the user to specify a desired quality price tradeoff for a particular media presentation. As discussed previously various transmission strategies are contemplated by the present invention. Different transmission strategies may vary the data transmission rate reshuffle the bit order of the data and or transmit data in bursts to the remote device. Moreover different transmission strategies may vary how and where transmitted data is buffered. Among the buffering choices available are buffering at the transmission station at multiple transmission stations or at the remote device itself.

At a period of time after the first portion of media presentation is transmitted to the remote device usage data is received from the remote device. At this point operational control passes from sending operation to receiving operation .

At receiving operation usage data from the remote device is received. The usage data is designed to inform the media presentation server if a transmission strategy should be modified because of usage changes at the remote device. The usage data can provide feedback about the location of the remote device time of day at the remote device and the signal quality of the transmitted signal. By enabling the remote device to provide feedback the following benefits can be achieved 

1. Users of the remote device can see the desired perceived quality and are therefore more inclined to use the media service increasing revenue for content providers and advertisers alike.

2. Video programs are delivered that may otherwise not be. A video program that is delivered with such poor quality as to be unwatchable may be considered to be non deliverable of the video program raising a potential dispute between the user and provider.

3. Advertisements are delivered that may otherwise not be. An advertisement that is delivered with such poor quality as to be unwatchable may be considered to be non delivery of the advertising.

4. Advertisers may be given data on which ads were actually displayed on the remote devices. Software can monitor what is displaying on the screen or played by speakers and report back whether or not the commercial was presented to the user.

5. Feeding back user desires for quality versus price tradeoff for a particular media presentation affecting the presentation as it continues would satisfy the user s desire for a fair price.

6. Quality verses price tradeoffs when made during the presentation relieve the user from having to guess the desired tradeoff ahead of time.

7. Information of perceived value when collected for many users and normalized for each viewer s habits could be valuable to the program creators and distributors more so than just information about which shows were ordered.

The usage data may include metrics about the transmission s error rate signal strength or both. Error rate could be characterized in many ways including the percentage of bad bits detected or missed bits expected or as number per second. Further information may characterize how contiguous the errors are. For example the information may specify whether errors occur in isolated random bits or gather in adjacent bits. Packets expected but not received could be another measure of signal quality. The usage data provided by the remote device may be delivered periodically to help establish a trend.

Feedback from the receiving device to the transmitting entity allows the transmitter to automatically adjust the current transmission strategy based on a predefined transmission policy. Thus after receiving usage data from the remote device at receiving operation control passes to adjusting operation .

At adjusting operation the transmission strategy is automatically adjusted according to the usage data and the predefined transmission policy. As discussed earlier some of the transmission strategy changes may include 

For example in a common transmission a typical error is a burst of interference i.e. someone starts their car . Thus typical interruptions are not tiny and random but large and concentrated and occasional. One way to make a signal robust against this kind of interference is it to take the information in the signal and spread it out over a longer time. Bits are transmitted over a longer period of time by interleaving them with information from other frames. Thus in a video presentation bits from one frame are interleaved with bits from many other frames so that interference affects several frames in a small way rather than one frame in a large way. The error correction code may be able to fix the small number of errors in the many frames.

As discussed above it is contemplated that the transmission policy is authored by the remote device user and is delivered to the transmitting entity. The transmission policy is tailored to reflect the user s preference of presentation quality and price for receiving such quality. The user may not initially know the desired price verses quality tradeoff and may change his her choice during a streaming presentation depending on the user s evolving feelings of the presentation s perceived value. Thus the feedback adjustment interface is preferably available to the user during the presentation.

The server or transmitter refers to the transmission policy and if necessary adjusts the current transmission strategy as directed by the policy. Thus at sending operation a second portion of the media presentation is sent to the remote device using an adjusted transmission strategy.

The process described above may repeat as the media presentation is transmitted to the remote device. Therefore control flow can return to receiving operation after sending operation is completed. The frequency of iterations may be configurable by the system to filter out insignificant changes in transmission quality.

The remote device further includes a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive to read from and write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading a CD ROM disk or to read from and write to other optical media . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk interface a magnetic disk interface and an optical disk interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage for the remote device . Although computer readable media refers to a hard disk removable magnetic media and removable optical media it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media that are readable by a computer such as flash memory cards may also be used in the illustrative remote device .

A number of program modules may be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system a presentation feedback application transmission policy and other program modules not shown . As discussed above the remote device is configured to receive presentation units and send usage data back to the presentation server. Furthermore the remote device includes a user interface that beneficially allows the user to adjust the transmission policy according to the user s price and presentation quality preferences.

A user may enter commands and information into the remote device through a keyboard and pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone modem joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus .

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the remote device may include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers.

The remote device operates in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote devices. The remote device may be a server a router a peer device or other common network node. When used in a networking environment the remote device is typically connected to the network through a network interface . In a network environment program modules depicted relative to the remote device or portions thereof may be stored in one or more remote memory storage devices.

The foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. For example the transmission strategy may lower the data transmission rate to the remote device when a battery charge level falls below a threshold value in order to minimize the processing power required to exhibit the presentation at the remote device. Furthermore the transmission strategy may be based in part on an available memory size at the remote device.

Thus the embodiments disclosed were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments of the invention except insofar as limited by the prior art.

