---

title: Pressing member, endoscopic treatment system, and endoscopic suturing device
abstract: An endoscopic treatment system  of the present invention includes an overtube  that is inserted into the body of a patient. An endoscope  and a suturing device  are inserted into the overtube . The overtube  has a long and flexible tube main body , and a chamber  is provided at the distal end of the tube main body . The chamber  has a lateral hole  formed on the lateral surface thereof. The width of the lateral hole  is set such that a lesion can be drawn into the lateral hole  while preventing other organs on the periphery of the lesion from being drawn into the lateral hole 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08876698&OS=08876698&RS=08876698
owner: Olympus Corporation
number: 08876698
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060721
---
The present application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national phase conversion of PCT JP2006 314527 filed Jul. 21 2006 which claims priority of Japanese Application No. 2005 213483 filed Jul. 22 2005 the disclosure of which has been incorporated herein by reference. The PCT International Application was published in the Japanese language.

The present invention relates to a pressing member that is inserted into the body and presses a biological tissue when performing an endoscopic treatment and to an endoscopic treatment system having the pressing member. The present invention also relates to an endoscopic suturing device that sutures a biological tissue.

This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2005 213483 filed on Jul. 22 2005 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

When performing a treatment on an alimentary tract affected by cancer or the like within a human body an endoscopic mucosal resection operation has been conducted in which an endoscope is inserted into the body through the mouth or the anus so as to resect a lesion. In such an operation all layers including the affected mucosal layer and the muscular layer have been resected. However perforations may be formed in the alimentary tract by resecting the entire layer. Thus it is necessary to suture the perforations using an endoscopic treatment system including a suturing device in order to prevent the lumen of the alimentary tract from coalescing with the abdominal cavity via the perforations.

An endoscopic treatment system employed in such a case is provided with an overtube through which an endoscope can be inserted. The overtube has a lateral opening formed at the distal end thereof through which all layers including the lesion are drawn and are subjected to a suture treatment. Thereafter all layers are resected by a high frequency snare or the like. At the time of the suture treatment in the vicinity of the opening a ligating tool or a suture thread is penetrated through all layers of the tract from the front side toward the back side thereof so that the tract including the lesion is deformed like a pouch. As a result the front side and the back side of the tissue around the lesion are overlapped with each other. Thus it is possible to prevent the lumen of the tract from coalescing with the abdominal cavity even when the entire lesion is resected.

When other organs are positioned adjacent to a portion to be resected the procedure should be performed while preventing other organs from being sutured at the time of suturing the alimentary tract. Accordingly it has been one of the reasons for the procedure being complicated.

In addition since the opening is formed on the lateral surface of the overtube it is difficult to capture the image of the lesion using an image capturing portion provided at the distal end of the endoscope. Thus it is difficult to identify the position of the lesion deteriorating the operability of a treatment tool such as the suturing device.

Although the ligating tool or the suture thread is passed through the alimentary tract so as to substantially overlap with the same it is difficult to maintain a closed environment until the biological tissue is coalesced.

The present invention has been made in view of the above mentioned circumstances and a main object of the present invention is to facilitate a procedure when resecting all layers including a lesion.

Another object of the present invention is to promote recovery of the lesion after the entire resection.

In order to solve the above problems according to Aspect 1 of the present invention there is provided a pressing member including a pressing member main body disposed between a treatment target portion of a biological tissue and an endoscope inserted into the body of a patient for treatment of the treatment target portion of the biological tissue the pressing member main body being configured to press neighboring tissues around the treatment target portion by abutting the treatment target portion and an entanglement preventing portion provided on the pressing member main body the entanglement preventing portion being configured to when drawing the treatment target portion into the endoscope via the pressing member main body prevent other organs on the periphery of the treatment target portion from being drawn into the endoscope together with the treatment target portion.

According to the pressing member the lesion is drawn in a state that biological tissue around the lesion is pressed by the pressing member. At this time the entanglement preventing portion prevents other organs from being drawn into the endoscope together with the lesion. Therefore only the selected biological tissue is drawn into the endoscope.

The invention according to Aspect 2 of the present invention is the pressing member according to Aspect 1 in which the entanglement preventing portion includes a first surface opposed to the endoscope a second surface opposed to the treatment target portion and a pressing portion disposed on a surface that connects the first surface and the second surface to each other the pressing portion being configured to when drawing the treatment target portion into the endoscope via the pressing member main body produce a pressing force in a direction substantially perpendicular to the drawing in direction of the treatment target portion to maintain the thickness of the drawn in treatment target portion to a predetermined thickness and to thus prevent other organs on the periphery of the treatment target portion from being drawn into the endoscope together with the treatment target portion.

According to the pressing member the entanglement preventing portion includes the pressing portion and the pressing portion presses the treatment target portion so as to restrict the width of the treatment target portion. As a result the thickness of the treatment target portion drawn into the endoscope is restricted by the pressing portion preventing entanglement of other organs.

The invention according to Aspect 3 of the present invention is the pressing member according to Aspect 1 or 2 in which the entanglement preventing portion has an elastic member.

According to the pressing member when the treatment target portion is drawn into the endoscope while elastically deforming the elastic member the thickness of the treatment target portion is restricted by the restring force of the elastic member. By setting the elastic coefficient of the elastic member to a value that does not allow the entanglement of other organs or the like it is possible to prevent the entanglement of other organs.

The invention according to Aspect 4 of the present invention is the pressing member according to any one of Aspects 1 to 3 in which the pressing member main body includes an opening through which the treatment target portion is drawn into the endoscope via the pressing member main body a first entanglement preventing portion disposed on the periphery of the opening and a second entanglement preventing portion disposed opposite the first entanglement preventing portion the first and second entanglement preventing portion being configured to sandwich the treatment target portion therebetween to maintain the thickness of the treatment target portion to a predetermined thickness and to thus prevent other organs on the periphery of the treatment target portion from being drawn into the endoscope via the pressing member main body together with the treatment target portion.

According to the pressing member although the treatment target portion is drawn into the endoscope through the opening the treatment target portion is sandwiched between the first and second entanglement preventing portion in the course of the drawing operation. Therefore the thickness of the treatment target portion drawn into the endoscope is restricted to the gap defined between the first and second entanglement preventing portion. Accordingly by setting the gap between the first and second entanglement preventing portion to a size that does not allow the entanglement of other organs it is possible to prevent the entanglement of other organs.

The invention according to Aspect 5 of the present invention is the pressing member according to Aspect 1 in which the entanglement preventing portion is a displacing member that can be located between the treatment target portion and other organs on the periphery of the treatment target portion and the pressing member main body includes a first opening through which the treatment target portion is drawn into the endoscope via the pressing member and a second opening disposed closer to a proximal end than the first opening through which the displacing member is delivered from the endoscope toward the treatment target portion via the pressing member.

According to the pressing member the displacing member is inserted between the treatment target portion and other organs through the second opening so that the treatment target portion is sandwiched between the displacing member and the first opening. Accordingly even when the treatment target portion is inserted into the endoscope other organs are not drawn into the endoscope by the presence of the displacing member.

The invention according to Aspect 6 of the present invention is the pressing member according to any one of Aspects 1 to 5 in which the pressing member main body is movable with respect to the endoscope.

According to the pressing member since the pressing member main body is movable with respect to the endoscope it becomes easy to identify the treatment target portion by means of the endoscope. Also it is easy to grasp the treatment target portion by means of a treatment tool inserted through the endoscope.

The invention according to Aspect 7 of the present invention is the pressing member according to any one of Aspects 1 to 6 in which the pressing member main body includes an overtube having a lumen that allows insertion of the endoscope therethrough a flexible insertion guide that extends from a distal end of the overtube a tapered portion corresponding to a transitional portion between the overtube and the insertion guide and an opening formed in the tapered portion and having a space through which the treatment target portion is drawn in.

According to the pressing member the overtube promotes the insertion of the endoscope or the like. Since the flexible insertion guide is deformed while assuming the curved shape of the alimentary tract flexible insertion of the overtube is facilitated. Since the opening is formed in the tapered portion it is possible to identify the treatment target portion and to perform the treatment without needing to bend the endoscope greatly.

According to Aspect 8 of the present invention there is provided an endoscopic treatment system including the endoscope the pressing member according to any one of Aspects 1 to 6 a draw in portion for drawing the treatment target portion into an endoscope and a treatment portion for treating the treatment target portion.

According to the endoscopic treatment system the treatment target portion is drawn into the endoscope using the draw in portion and the biological tissue is sutured or resected using the treatment portion. At this time since the treatment target portion is drawn in via the pressing member it is possible to prevent the entanglement of other organs.

According to Aspect 9 of the present invention there is provided an endoscopic suturing device including a main body having a distal end portion a proximal end portion and a longitudinal shaft a suture unit provided at the distal end portion of the main body and having a grasping unit that grasps a biological tissue and a tissue penetrating needle that sutures the biological tissue grasped by the grasping unit a first grasping piece provided on the suture unit a second grasping piece provided on the suture unit and configured to be freely movable toward or away from the first grasping piece in a relative manner a first convex portion having a first vertex portion that protrudes from the first grasping piece toward the second grasping piece a second convex portion disposed adjacent to the first convex portion and having a second vertex portion that protrudes from the first grasping piece toward the second grasping piece a third convex portion having a third vertex portion that protrudes from the second grasping piece toward the first grasping piece so as to be engaged between the first convex portion and the second convex portion the tissue penetrating needle being configured when the first grasping piece is moved closer to the second grasping piece to be moved forward or backward through an area closer to the first grasping piece than a plane including the first vertex portion an area closer to the first grasping piece than a plane including the second vertex portion and an area closer to the second grasping piece than a plane including the third vertex portion and a suture member detachably attached to the tissue penetrating needle and having a stopper at the proximal end side in the penetration direction of the tissue penetrating needle.

According to the endoscopic suturing device two biological tissues on both sides of a resected portion of the treatment target portion are sandwiched in a corrugated shape between the first and second grasping pieces having the convex portions. Then in a state that the two biological tissues are overlapped with each other the tissue penetrating needle is penetrated through the overlapped biological tissues whereby the two biological tissues are joined with each other. Since the stopper is provided at the proximal end the endoscope side of the suture member it is possible to maintain the sutured state of the treatment target portion by only means of a proximal side operation.

The invention according to Aspect 10 of the present invention is the endoscopic suturing device according to Aspect 9 in which the endoscopic suturing device further includes a tissue restricting member disposed between neighboring tissues adjacent to a treatment target tissue and the suture unit the tissue restricting member being configured to place the treatment target tissue between the distal end portion and the proximal end portion of the grasping unit.

According to the endoscopic suturing device the tissue restricting member is placed between the neighboring tissues and the treatment target tissue so that the length of the biological tissue to be sutured is restricted by the tissue restricting member. As a result the biological tissue to be sutured is received between the distal end portion and the proximal end portion of the grasping unit enabling a secure suture treatment without leaving any portion of the biological tissue to be sutured.

The invention according to Aspect 11 of the present invention is the endoscopic suturing device according to Aspect 10 in which the tissue restricting member is a pressing member main body that is disposed between a treatment target portion of a biological tissue and an endoscope inserted into the body of a patient for treatment of the treatment target portion of the biological tissue the pressing member main body being configured to press the neighboring tissues around the treatment target portion by abutting the treatment target portion and the pressing member main body includes a first surface opposed to the endoscope a second surface opposed to the treatment target portion and a tissue restricting portion disposed on a surface that connects the first surface and the second surface to each other the pressing portion being configured to when drawing the treatment target portion into the endoscope via the pressing member main body produce a pressing force in a direction substantially perpendicular to the drawing in direction of the treatment target portion and to maintain the longitudinal length of the drawn in treatment target portion so as to be received between the distal end portion and the proximal end portion of the grasping unit.

In the endoscopic suturing device the treatment target portion is drawn in a state that the neighboring tissues are pressed by the pressing member main body. At this time the length of the biological tissue to be sutured is restricted by the tissue restricting member and the biological tissue to be sutured is received between the distal end portion and the proximal end portion of the suture unit enabling a secure suture treatment without leaving any portion of the biological tissue to be sutured.

According to the present invention when performing a treatment by drawing the treatment target portion into the endoscope the entanglement preventing portion prevents other organs from being drawn into the endoscope together with the treatment target portion. Therefore it is easy to confirm an occurrence of the entanglement of other organs. Accordingly it is possible to simplify the procedure and to shorten the procedure time.

Since the flexible insertion guide is provided at the distal end of the overtube it is easy to direct the distal end portion of the overtube to follow the path of the endoscope or the body cavity. Accordingly it is easy to introduce the distal end portion of the overtube to the treatment target portion.

Since the suture treatment can be performed in such a manner that the suturing tool is penetrated through the corrugated treatment target portion it is possible to suture the two biological tissues of the treatment target portion in a state that the two biological tissues are folded in multiple layers. Accordingly it is possible to suture perforations formed by the resection in a secure manner while maintaining a closed environment until the perforations are coalesced.

As shown in an endoscopic treatment system includes an elongated overtube serving as a pressing member main body that is inserted into the body of a patient. The overtube is provided with a chamber at a distal end of a flexible tube main body . The chamber extends in a cylindrical shape while the diameter thereof is enlarged from the distal end portion of the tube main body . A flexible insertion guide is provided on the distal end surface of the chamber . The insertion guide is a cylindrical member that is located at a position axially offset with respect to the chamber . A transitional portion where the distal end portion of the chamber transitions into the insertion guide is formed as a tapered portion that is cut obliquely toward the insertion guide .

On a more proximal side in the longitudinal direction of the chamber than the tapered portion a lateral hole is formed parallel to the longitudinal direction in a long and thin shape. As shown in the chamber of the overtube functions as an entanglement preventing portion that includes a first surface that is opposed to an endoscope side a second surface that is opposed to a treatment target portion a lesion W and a pressing portion provided on a portion that connects the first surface and the second surface to each other.

The pressing portion is formed of a wall surface of the lateral hole in the circumferential direction of the chamber . The distance between upper and lower sides of the pressing portion corresponds to the width of the lateral hole in the circumferential direction of the chamber . The size distance of the pressing portion is set such that when a treatment target portion a biological tissue of an alimentary tract to be resected entirely is entered into the chamber the thickness of the treatment target portion is restricted to a predetermined value so as to prevent other internal organs from entering into the chamber . Specifically when all layers of the alimentary tract have a thickness ranging from 1.0 to 1.5 mm the size of the pressing portion ranges from 2 to 3 mm corresponding to twice the thickness of the all layers.

In the overtube having the insertion guide an endoscope and an endoscopic suturing device hereinafter referred to as a suturing device are inserted from a proximal end side thereof. As shown in the endoscope includes an operation portion that an operator operates with. At the distal end of the operation portion an elongated flexible insertion portion is provided.

As shown in the distal end portion of the insertion portion is inserted into the chamber . On the distal end surface of the insertion portion an image capturing portion that captures an image of the internal body and a distal opening of a treatment tool channel are provided. The treatment tool channel passes through the endoscope into the operation portion . Through the treatment tool channel an endoscopic treatment tool such as a grasping forceps can be inserted or operations such as suction or liquid delivery can be performed.

As shown in the suturing device includes a first operation portion and a second operation portion that an operator operates with. The first operation portion is configured such that a hollow piston is inserted into an operation portion main body so as to be freely moved forward or backward. To the proximal end portion of the piston a hollow slider is inserted so as to be freely moved forward or backward with respect to the piston . On the distal end of the first operation portion a proximal end portion of a first insertion portion that is flexible and elongated is attached. The first insertion portion is inserted through the inside of a sheath so that a hollow liquid supply tube connected to the piston can be freely moved forward or backward. To the liquid supply tube a pusher rod connected to the slider is inserted so as to be freely moved forward or backward.

The second operation portion is configured such that a slider is attached to an operation portion main body so as to be freely moved forward or backward. A hole is formed on the proximal end of the operation portion main body and on the slider so that an operator can grasp the second operation portion with his fingers hooked on the holes. On the distal end of the second operation portion a proximal end portion of a second insertion portion that is flexible and elongated is attached. The second insertion portion is inserted through the inside of a sheath so that an operation wire connected to the slider can be freely moved forward or backward. At the distal end portion of the first and second insertion portions and that constitute a main body portion of the suturing device a suture unit is provided as shown in .

As shown in the suture unit includes a shaft portion to which the sheaths of the first and second insertion portions and see are connected. At the distal end of the shaft portion a first jaw serving as a first grasping piece is provided. The first jaw has a proximal end portion thereof located at a position offset from the central axis of the shaft portion and a main body portion that extends in the insertion direction from the proximal end portion i.e. in the direction for being inserted into the body. At the distal end portion of the main body portion a tooth serving as a first convex portion is provided so as to extend in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the main body portion over the central axis of the shaft portion .

Between the tooth and the proximal end of the main body portion a plurality of teeth serving as a second convex portion is arranged at regular intervals. The teeth have the same shape as that of the tooth so that the first jaw has a comb teeth shape as a whole. A vertex portion a first vertex portion of the tooth and vertex portions a second vertex portion of the teeth are formed of a flat surface that is parallel in the longitudinal direction. As shown in through holes are formed in the teeth and so as to penetrate through the teeth and in a direction parallel to the longitudinal direction of the first jaw . Also in the teeth and slits that are open to the vertex portions and of the teeth and are formed so as to be connected to the through holes .

Around the shaft portion an operation wire is wound so as to be freely moved forward or backward. The operation wire passes through the inside of the second insertion portion shown in and is connected to the slider of the second operation portion . On the distal end portion of the operation wire a link mechanism is attached. The link mechanism is provided with an L shaped lever that is supported on the shaft portion by a pin so as to pivot in response to the forward and backward movement of the operation wire .

The lever is attached so as to pivot about a position located on the opposite side in the offset direction of the first jaw . On the distal end of the lever a proximal end portion of a second jaw serving as a second grasping piece is attached. The second jaw has an elongated main body portion . On the main body portion a plurality of teeth serving as a third convex portion is arranged at regular intervals so as to extend in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal direction. The second jaw has a comb teeth shape as a whole. The teeth of the second jaw and the teeth and of the first jaw are arranged in an alternating manner. The vertex portions third vertex portion of the teeth are formed of a flat surface. Like the first jaw each of the teeth has a through hole and a slit .

A grasping unit formed by the first and second jaws and is opened as shown in when the operation wire is moved forward and as shown in the grasping unit is closed when the operation wire is moved backward. In the state in which the first and second jaws and are closed the teeth and are sequentially arranged in the longitudinal direction so that the through holes and are linearly aligned. Between the teeth and and between the vertex portions and of the teeth and and the main body portions and opposed to these portions gaps that have a crank shape with a predetermined width are defined.

As shown in the length La between the proximal end portion and the distal end portion of the first and second jaws and is set greater than the longitudinal length Lb of the lateral hole . The wall surfaces in the longitudinal direction of the lateral hole function as tissue restricting portions . The operations of the tissue restricting portions will be described later.

As shown in a through hole is formed in the shaft portion along the longitudinal direction thereof. A tissue penetrating needle is inserted into the through hole . The tissue penetrating needle includes a needle portion that is attached to the distal end of the liquid supply tube of the first insertion portion .

The needle portion is formed of a hollow member having a sharply cut distal end and the pusher rod is inserted through the needle portion and the liquid supply tube so as to be freely moved forward or backward. Therefore when the piston of the first operation portion shown in is moved forward or backward the liquid supply tube and the needle portion are moved forward or backward. When the slider is moved forward or backward with respect to the piston the pusher rod is moved forward or backward into the liquid supply tube and the needle portion .

The outer diameter of the needle portion and the liquid supply tube is set smaller than the outer diameter of the through holes and . When the needle portion is moved forward to the greatest extent the needle portion is passed through the first and second jaws and . In the needle portion a T bar of the suturing tool is received.

The suturing tool has the T bar formed of a long and thin member. The T bar has a thickness that can be pressed against the distal end of the pusher rod . From a portion near the center of the T bar a suture thread serving as a suture member is extended. The suture thread is passed through a slit formed on the lateral portion of the needle portion and is again passed through a hole formed on the lateral portion of the shaft portion finally being drawn out from the suture unit . To the proximal end side of the suture thread a stopper serving as a fixing member is press fitted so as to be freely moved forward or backward.

Next operations of the present embodiment will be described. The following descriptions will be made for the case in which a treatment is performed on a lesion in the intestinal tract. However the treatment target portion is not limited to this.

As shown in the endoscope is inserted through the overtube and the distal end portion of the insertion portion is protruded out from the distal end of the insertion guide . While observing the image captured by the image capturing portion of the endoscope the overtube is inserted into the body through the insertion guide . Since the insertion guide is more flexible and smaller in diameter than the chamber the overtube can be inserted into the body in a smooth manner. As shown in the insertion stops at a position where the lateral hole of the overtube approaches a lesion W of an intestinal tract W. The lesion W is a treatment target portion that is to be resected entirely.

In the state in which the movement of the overtube is stopped at such a position the insertion portion of the endoscope is moved backward to confirm whether the lateral hole is properly aligned with the lesion W by using the image pickup portion of the endoscope . Then the grasping forceps see inserted through the treatment tool channel is extended so as to allow the distal end to come out from the chamber through the lateral hole thereby grasping the lesion W. Once the lesion W is grasped the grasping forceps is moved backward.

As shown in the lesion W is drawn into the chamber through the lateral hole by being pulled by the grasping forceps . At this time as shown in the width of the lateral hole is set small and thus the width of the biological tissue that is drawn into the chamber is restricted by the width of the lateral hole . Therefore the lesion W and two biological tissues and on the outer circumference of the lesion W are drawn into the chamber with the two biological tissues and overlapping with each other. In this case other neighboring tissues or other neighboring biological tissues other than the treatment target portion such as other internal organs W are pressed against the peripheral border of the lateral hole and thus are not drawn into the chamber . Here the biological tissues and are the treatment target portion that is to be sutured.

When the treatment target portion is drawn into the chamber a suture treatment is performed on the biological tissues and with the suturing device . Specifically as shown in the suture unit is moved forward toward the lesion W in the state in which the first jaw is opened with respect to the second jaw .

As shown in the length between the tissue restricting portions i.e. the longitudinal length Lb of the lateral hole is smaller than the longitudinal length La of each of the jaws and . Therefore as shown in the length of the biological tissues and is restricted by the tissue restricting portions of the lateral hole so as to be smaller than that of the jaws and . As a result the biological tissues and do not stick out from the distal or proximal end portion of the jaws and .

Therefore when the slider of the second operation portion shown in is moved backward the second jaw is closed to sandwich the biological tissues and between the first and second jaws and as shown in without the biological tissues and sticking out from the jaws. The biological tissues and assume the shape of the crank shaped gap between the first and second jaws and and are sandwiched between the corrugated surfaces more specifically between the rectangular corrugated surfaces assuming the outer shapes of the teeth and .

Then the piston of the first operation portion shown in is operated to move the tissue penetration needle in the forward direction. The tissue penetration needle penetrates the biological tissues and sandwiched between the teeth and with the needle portion pierced into the biological tissues and and is sequentially passed through the through holes and of the teeth and finally coming out from the distal end. At this time the T bar received in the needle portion also comes out through the biological tissues and and therefore the suture thread attached to the T bar is passed through the biological tissues and and the first and second jaws and . In this state when the slider of the first operation portion is operated to move the pusher rod in the forward direction as shown in the T bar is extruded from the needle portion .

Then as shown in the piston is operated to move the needle portion in the backward direction. With this operation the needle portion is removed from the biological tissues and . However because the T bar extruded from the needle portion is detained at a more distal side than the first and second jaws and the suture thread maintains the state in which the suture thread is passed through the biological tissues and .

As shown in when the second jaw is open the suture thread passes through the slits and and comes out from the first and second jaws and and the suturing tool comes off the suture unit . In this state of the suturing tool the suture thread is passed through an approximately central portion of the corrugated biological tissues and the T bar is disposed at the distal end side of the biological tissues and and the stopper is disposed at the proximal end side of the biological tissues and . When the suture unit is moved backward as shown in the biological tissues and can be fastened by a ligating tool because the suturing tool is detained at the state in which the suturing tool is passed through the biological tissues and .

The ligating tool is configured such that a wire is inserted through an elongated sheath so as to be freely moved forward and backward. At the distal end of the wire a hook serving as an engagement member is fixedly attached. Such a ligating tool is used by being inserted through the treatment tool channel of the endoscope . As shown in the hook as shown in is moved closer to a proximal side loop of the suture thread passed through the biological tissues and . Once the hook is hooked on the loop an operator side operation portion is operated to draw the hook into the sheath .

As shown in the loop engaged on the hook is drawn into the sheath . However the stopper abuts the distal end surface of the sheath and stops there because the size of the stopper is greater than the outer diameter of the sheath . As a result the stopper is relatively extruded toward the biological tissues and decreasing the distance between the T bar and the stopper . Accordingly the treatment target portion is fastened by the T bar and the stopper in such a manner that the walls of the corrugated biological tissues and are brought into close contact with each other in an overlapping manner.

Here the T bar has a size that does not pass through the biological tissues and and the stopper is press fitted to the suture thread . Therefore the fastening state of the biological tissues and is maintained when the force for drawing in the suture thread is released. Accordingly even after the engagement between the hook and the suture thread is released the suture thread the T bar and the stopper are detained in the body in the state in which the biological tissues and are securely sutured. In this way as shown in the biological tissues and are fastened by the suturing tool and the surrounding portion of the lesion W is sutured. In addition because the T bar and the stopper abut the pouch shaped outer peripheral surfaces of the biological tissues and the biological tissues and can be securely sutured without leaving out any portion of the biological tissues and .

Then as shown in a loop of a high frequency snare is hooked on a portion closer to the lesion W than the sutured portion. Since the high frequency snare is used by being inserted into the treatment tool channel of the endoscope the loop is formed of metal such as stainless steel and is adapted to freely come into and out of the elongated sheath .

By operating the operator side operation portion the loop can be drawn into the sheath . In the state in which the surrounding portion of the lesion W is fastened a high frequency current is supplied to the loop resecting the lesion W. The resected lesion W is collected outside the body by the grasping forceps or the like. As shown in the biological tissues and remaining after the entire lesion W is resected are left in the state that the biological tissues and are sutured by the suturing tool . In this way since the tissues are sutured by fastening the tissues into a corrugated shape perforations formed by the entire resection can be blocked in a secure manner compared with the conventional suturing method that perforates a portion of a biological tissue.

According to the present embodiment when resecting the entire lesion W the treatment target portion can be drawn into the chamber in the state in which tissues around the treatment target portion are pressed against the chamber . In addition the entanglement preventing portion is configured as the lateral hole of the chamber that has a small width corresponding to the size of the lesion W. Therefore only the minimal biological tissue required for the procedure can be drawn into the chamber . Thus other biological tissues particularly other organs W on the periphery of the intestinal tract W are not drawn into the chamber . Therefore during the procedure it is not necessary to confirm whether other organs W or the like are drawn into the chamber simplifying the procedure and raising the efficiency of the procedure.

The chamber is provided with the flexible and thin insertion guide at its distal end and the insertion guide deforms so as to assume the shape of the insertion portion of the endoscope or of the internal body. Therefore the overtube can be easily inserted to an intended site. Since the tapered portion is provided at the distal end of the chamber even when the intestinal tract W is curved the tapered portion deforms while colliding against the tract wall to change the moving direction of the chamber so as to assume the curved shape of the intestinal tract W. Accordingly it is possible to insert the overtube in an easier manner.

The suturing device includes the grasping unit formed by the comb teeth shaped first and second jaws and . In the suturing device after grasping the two biological tissues and into a corrugated shape more specifically into a rectangular corrugated shape the suture thread is passed through the biological tissues and using the tissue penetration needle and then the biological tissues and are sutured while being sandwiched between the T bar and the stopper . Therefore the biological tissues and are joined with each other. Accordingly perforations formed after the lesion W is resected are securely blocked and the biological tissues and are immediately coalesced thereby obstructing the perforations.

In the present embodiment the vertex portions and of the teeth and of the first and second jaws and are formed of a flat surface the biological tissues and sandwiched in a corrugated shape can be folded at an angle close to a right angle. Therefore when fastened by the suture thread the shape of the biological tissues and is not likely to change. In this way in the present embodiment operations up to the ligating operation can be performed in a trans endoscopic manner.

When ligating the biological tissues and the drawn in length of the treatment target portion in the longitudinal direction of the jaws and is restricted by the tissue restricting portion . The portion to be sutured does not stick out from the distal or proximal end portion of the jaws and . Therefore the end portions of the biological tissues and are securely sutured without leaving out any portion of the biological tissues and . In this case the overtube functions as a tissue pressing member main body and a tissue restricting member.

As shown in the length Lc of the T bar is preferably the same as or greater than the length Ld of the teeth and of the first and second jaws and . Since the T bar is longer than the width of the overlapped corrugated shaped biological tissues and the T bar can press the entire width of the biological tissues and . Accordingly the entire biological tissues and can be pressed in a secure manner.

A snare as shown in may be provided as the tissue restricting member. The snare is used by being inserted through the treatment tool channel of the endoscope and an annular snare portion a tissue restricting portion can freely come into and out of a distal end portion of a long flexible sheath . With the snare the longitudinal length of the biological tissues and around the lesion W that are drawn into the lateral hole of the chamber is restricted so as not to exceed the longitudinal length Lb in of the jaws and .

By adjusting the longitudinal position of the snare by moving the snare forward or backward in the longitudinal direction it is possible to prevent the biological tissues and that need to be sutured from sticking out of the longitudinal ends of the jaws and . In this case it is not necessary to form the tissue restricting portion see in the lateral hole . The snare may be inserted through the overtube instead of inserting through the endoscope . Examples of the tissue restricting member include a treatment tool such as a grasping forceps that can restrict the length of the biological tissues and . Instead of the overtube the endoscope may be used as the tissue restricting member.

The pressing member may have other shapes for example those shown in may be employed. As shown in the chamber may have as the entanglement preventing portion a hole that is long in the circumferential direction of the chamber . The width of the lateral hole in a direction perpendicular to the circumferential direction is approximately the same as the width of the lateral hole shown in . In this case the wall surfaces of the lateral hole in the longitudinal direction of the chamber correspond to a pressing portion . Therefore the treatment target portion can be drawn in a long and thin shape in a direction approximately perpendicular to the forward and backward movement directions of the grasping forceps . Accordingly it becomes easy to draw in the treatment target portion with the grasping forceps . In such biological tissues that are resected and sutured the sutured portion extends in a direction approximately perpendicular to the movement direction of food or like that flows along the intestinal tract W. Thus the sutured biological tissues are not likely to cause stenosis.

As shown in a pressing member attached at the distal end of the endoscope may be used. The pressing member has a pressing member main body that is mounted on the distal end portion of the insertion portion of the endoscope by an annular engagement portion . The pressing member main body is formed of a plate shaped member and protrudes out from the distal end of the endoscope in a long and thin shape along the axial line of the insertion portion . In an approximately central portion of the pressing member main body a lateral hole serving as the entanglement preventing portion is formed in the longitudinal direction. The lateral hole is penetrated through the pressing member main body and the length and the opening width are the same as those of the lateral hole shown in . In this case the surface on the endoscope side of the pressing member main body corresponds to a first surface and an opposite surface of the first surface corresponds to a second surface

In the lateral hole the wall surfaces in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the pressing member main body correspond to a pressing portion . In such a pressing member neighboring tissues of the treatment target portion are pressed against the pressing member main body and the entanglement of other organs W or the like is prevented by the lateral hole . The lateral hole may be extended in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal direction of the pressing member main body .

As shown in a pressing member may have a pair of arms that extends in a direction parallel to the longitudinal direction of the insertion portion of the endoscope . The arms is a pressing member main body that is fixed to an annular engagement portion . Between the pair of arms a space serving as the entanglement preventing portion is defined. The width of the space in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal direction is substantially the same as the opening width of the lateral hole shown in . In this case the plane connecting the end portions of the pair of arms on the endoscope side corresponds to the first surface and the plane connecting the end portions located farthest from the endoscope corresponds to the second surface.

The portions opposed to the pair of arms correspond to a pressing portion. In such a pressing member neighboring tissues of the treatment target portion are pressed against the pair of arms and the entanglement of other organs W or the like is prevented by the space .

A second embodiment will be described with reference to . Components similar or identical to those of the first embodiment will be referenced by the same reference numerals and overlapping descriptions will be omitted.

In the present embodiment the shape of the lateral hole provided on the chamber is different from that of the first embodiment. That is as shown in a lateral hole is an entanglement preventing portion that includes an elongated first opening and a second opening that is provided to be connected to the distal end side of the first opening . The first opening has the same length and width as that of the lateral hole according to the first embodiment. The second opening is formed in a substantially circular shape and has a width greater than that of the first opening .

As shown in during the procedure the overtube is inserted with the second opening opposed to the lesion W the grasping forceps is extended to grasp the lesion W through the second opening . Then the grasping forceps is slightly pulled backward so that the distal end is received into the chamber . With this operation the lesion W is slightly drawn into the chamber .

Then as shown in when the whole overtube is moved forward with respect to the endoscope the portion of the lesion W grasped by the grasping forceps is received into the first opening . In this state as shown in when the grasping forceps is pulled backward again the lesion W is drawn into the chamber . At this time the intestinal tract W on the periphery of the treatment target portion is pressed against the peripheral border of the first opening so that only the treatment target portion is allowed to be drawn into the chamber by the narrow first opening that prevents other organs W from being drawn into the chamber . After this like the first embodiment the treatment target portion is sutured by the suturing device and the lesion W is cut with the high frequency snare .

As shown in the biological tissues and drawn from the first opening are sutured in a corrugated shape. Therefore as shown in when the whole overtube is moved backward the sutured biological tissues and are relatively moved backward toward the wide second opening . As a result the biological tissues and and the suturing tool come out of the chamber through the second opening .

In the present embodiment since the entanglement preventing portion is formed by the first and second openings and having different opening widths the lesion W can be grasped through the second opening in an easy manner. In this case since the suture treatment is performed when the lesion W is moved to the narrow first opening the suture treatment can be performed without causing other organs W or the like to be drawn in and it is thus easy to confirm whether the entanglement of other organs W or the like occurs.

Since the sutured biological tissues and can be removed out of the chamber through the wide second opening it is possible to pull the sutured portion out from the chamber immediately along with the T bar or the stopper that has a large size. In addition since the second opening is first controlled to be opposed to the lesion W it is possible to widen the view field offered by the endoscope making it easier to identify the position of the lesion W.

A third embodiment will be described with reference to . Components similar or identical to those of the afore described embodiments will be referenced by the same reference numerals and overlapping descriptions will be omitted.

As shown in the sectional view of a lateral hole is formed in the chamber . The width of the lateral hole in the circumferential direction of the chamber is sufficiently larger than the thickness of the total layers of the lesion W to be drawn in. Here on the inner circumference of the chamber a slider cover serving as the entanglement preventing portion is attached so as to be freely movable in the circumferential direction. The slider cover includes a first surface A which is the inner circumferential surface opposed to the endoscope and a second surface B which is the outer circumferential surface opposed to the treatment target portion. The slider cover has a size that can cover the entire lateral hole from the inside.

As shown in a pair of guides is mounted on the end portions on the lateral hole side of the slider cover . The guides are slidably fitted to a pair of rails that are laid between the distal and proximal end sides of the lateral holes in a direction parallel to the circumferential direction.

The guides are connected to wires . Each of the wires is drawn along the pair of rails then passed through a through hole of a wire guide and is turned in the longitudinal direction of the chamber while assuming the shape of the outer circumference of a pin . The pin is fixed to the inner circumference of the chamber . As shown in the distal end of the pin is pressed against an L shaped pressing member preventing the wire from dropping out from the pin .

As shown in the end portions of the wire are connected to the distal end portions of an operation wire . The operation wire is inserted through a sheath fixed to the inner wall of the overtube so as to be freely moved forward or backward. The sheath is connected to an operation portion main body of an operator side operation portion that is drawn out of the body. The proximal end portion of the operation wire is fixed to a slider that can be freely moved forward or backward with respect to the operation portion main body .

That is when the slider is pulled toward the proximal end side the slider cover is moved with the operation wire and the wire so as to cover the lateral hole the shown in . Even when the slider is pulled to the greatest extent an opening width that allows the passage of the biological tissue required for the entire resection for example a gap of about 3 mm is defined by the lateral hole and a pressing portion C that is formed of the lateral surface of the slider cover . A stopper not shown may be provided on the pair of rails in order to provide the necessary opening width to the lateral hole .

Next operations of the present embodiment will be described. First in a state that the slider cover is open the overtube is inserted such that the lateral hole is opposed to the lesion W. As shown in when an approximately central portion of the lesion W is grasped by the grasping forceps the distal end of the grasping forceps is pulled backward so as to be received into the chamber . After this the operator side operation portion is operated to move the slider cover to cover the lateral hole while leaving a small gap. In this state as shown in when the grasping forceps is pulled neighboring tissues are pressed against the peripheral border of the lateral hole and the second surface B of the slider cover .

The treatment target portion is drawn into the chamber with the width restricted by the lateral hole and the pressing portion C of the slider cover preventing other organs W from being drawn into the chamber . Thereafter the biological tissues and are sutured by the suturing device and the entire lesion W is resected by the high frequency snare . Then the operator side operation portion is operated to move the slider cover to uncover the lateral hole and the sutured portion is removed out of the chamber .

In the present embodiment in the initial state the opening width is increased making it easy to identify the position of the lesion W and to insert the grasping forceps . Before the lesion W is drawn into the chamber for the suture treatment the slider cover is moved to decrease the opening width. The width of the biological tissue to be drawn into the chamber is restricted by the opening width defined by the pressing portion C of the slider cover . Therefore by setting the opening width to a size that allows the passage of only the treatment target portion it is possible to prevent entanglement of other organs W or the like and to facilitate the procedure.

As shown in the other end of the slider cover is attached to one end of a coil spring . The other end of the coil spring is fixedly attached to a protrusion provided on the inner circumference of the chamber . The slider cover is biased by the coil spring so as to cover the lateral hole while leaving a gap.

When resecting the entire lesion W the lesion W is drawn into the chamber through the gap using the grasping forceps . At this time the slider cover is moved toward the protrusion while resisting the force that moves the slider cover toward the lesion W. Accordingly the treatment target portion is drawn into the chamber with the drawn in width corresponding to the increased opening width defined by the lateral hole and the pressing portion C. Since the slider cover is biased by the coil spring the opening width is not unnecessarily increased and thus other organs W or the like are not drawn into the chamber through such a small opening width. Accordingly other neighboring tissues other than the treatment target portion are pressed preventing the entanglement of other organs W.

As shown in valve elements and serving as first and second entanglement preventing portions respectively made of an elastic member such as rubber are attached to the lateral hole such that the opening width is decreased from the circumferential direction. The lateral portions of the valve elements and are fixed to the lateral borders of the lateral hole by means of adhesive bonding or the like. The valve elements and are deformed about the lateral portions so as to be bent toward the inside forming an elongated space that extends in the longitudinal direction between opposite ends A and A of the pair of valve elements and .

These opposite ends A and A correspond to the pressing portion. The circumferential width of the space defined by the opposite ends A and A is substantially the same as the width of the lateral hole shown in . When resecting the entire lesion W the treatment target portion is drawn into the chamber through the space between the valve elements and using the grasping forceps . At this time the valve elements and are deformed toward the inside while resisting the force that moves the valve elements toward the treatment target portion increasing the distance between the opposite ends A and A so that the treatment target portion is drawn in with a width corresponding to the distance.

Since the distance between the opposite ends A and A is restricted by the restoring force of the valve elements and the opening width is not unnecessarily increased and thus other organs W or the like are not drawn into the chamber through such a small opening width. Accordingly other neighboring tissues other than the treatment target portion are pressed preventing the entanglement of other organs W.

A fourth embodiment will be described with reference to . Components similar or identical to those of the afore described embodiments will be referenced by the same reference numerals and overlapping descriptions will be omitted.

As shown in the lateral hole a first opening is formed in the chamber and a slider cover that can cover the lateral hole is attached to the outer circumference of the chamber so as to be freely moved forward or backward. The slider cover is connected to the same mechanism as the slider cover of the third embodiment and to an operator side operation portion .

On a portion of the chamber closer to the distal end than the formation position of the lateral hole an opening a second opening smaller than the lateral hole is provided. The opening has a size that allows the passage of the distal end portion of the grasping forceps but does not allow the drawing in of the entire lesion W.

In the present embodiment two grasping forceps are inserted through a channel separately from that of the endoscope and the suturing device . As shown in the grasping forceps is inserted through respective sheaths and that are fixed to the wall of the overtube one by one. The sheath has a distal opening that is tilted to be opposed to the opening . The sheath has a distal opening that is tilted to be opposed to the lateral hole .

Next operations of the present embodiment will be described. First in the state that the lateral hole is covered by the slider cover the overtube is inserted into the body. The reason the lateral hole is covered is that by doing this the insertion can be done in a smooth manner without being caught halfway. When the lateral hole reaches the vicinity of the lesion W the endoscope is pulled backward closer to the outside than the formation position of the opening and the grasping forceps inserted through the sheath is extended so as to be inserted into the opening .

Then a biological tissue at a small distance from the lesion W is grasped and is drawn into the chamber through the opening . As shown in a small perforation is formed in the biological tissue drawn into the chamber using a high frequency arm inserted through the endoscope . Since the opening has a small area other organs W are not drawn into the chamber through such a small opening.

As shown in a balloon catheter serving as an entanglement preventing portion is inserted through the endoscope and a balloon serving as a displacing member provided at the distal end portion is delivered to the outside of the intestinal tract W through the perforation formed on the biological tissue. At this time the position of the balloon can be observed through X ray irradiation for example. When the balloon is delivered to a position opposite the lateral hole with the intestinal tract W interposed therebetween as shown in the slider cover is moved to uncover the later hole and air is blown into the balloon catheter to expand the balloon .

With this in the formation position of the lateral hole other organs W are isolated from the intestinal tract W by the balloon . Therefore as shown in when the lesion W is grasped by the grasping forceps inserted through the sheath and is drawn into the chamber other organs W are not drawn into the chamber . The portions of the intestinal tract W that are not required for the entire resection are pressed against the peripheral border of the lateral hole and thus are not drawn into the chamber .

In the present embodiment the small opening for inserting the balloon catheter is provided on the operator side of the lateral hole through which the lesion W is drawn in and the balloon is expanded after being inserted through the opening . It is possible to physically separate other organs W from the intestinal tract W and to thus prevent the entanglement of other organs W in a secure manner. Since other organs W can be securely separated the lateral hole can have a greater size and it is thus possible to draw in a larger amount of the treatment target portion.

As the entanglement preventing portion for separating other organs W from the intestinal tract W a basket type forceps as shown in can be used. The basket type forceps is configured such that an operation wire is inserted through a long and flexible sheath so as to be freely moved forward or backward. At the distal end of the operation wire a basket a displacing member formed of an elastically deformable wire is provided.

As shown in in a state that the basket is received in the sheath the basket type forceps is inserted through the endoscope and is then passed by the intestinal tract W finally being delivered to a position opposite the lateral hole with the lesion W interposed therebetween. After this as shown in the operation wire is moved forward to unfold the basket separating other organs W from the intestinal tract W.

Similarly an entanglement preventing portion as shown in may be used. The entanglement preventing portion is configured such that a plurality of displacing members is attached to the distal end of a long and flexible insertion portion so that the displacing members can freely pivot about a pin . Each of the displacing members is formed of a plate shaped member and one longitudinal end thereof is supported on the pin .

The entanglement preventing portion is inserted through the endoscope and is then passed by the intestinal tract W finally being delivered to a position opposite the lateral hole with the lesion W interposed therebetween. As shown in the displacing members are unfolded in a fan like shape while being pivoted about the pin . With this the entanglement of other organs W is prevented. As the activating mechanism for the displacing members a mechanism can be contemplated which biases the displacing members to be unfolded in a normal state and folds the displacing members when pulled by an operation wire not shown .

A fifth embodiment will be described with reference to . Components similar or identical to those of the afore described embodiments will be referenced by the same reference numerals and overlapping descriptions will be omitted.

As shown in the overtube is provided with the chamber at a distal end portion of the long and flexible tube main body . The small diameter flexible insertion guide is provided on the distal end surface of the chamber . The chamber has a higher hardness than the tube main body and the insertion guide . A lateral hole serving as an opening is formed in the tapered portion that extends from the distal end surface while enlarging the diameter of the chamber .

As shown in when the overtube inserted into a curved alimentary tract W the insertion guide can be deformed along with the insertion portion of the endoscope while assuming the shape of the alimentary tract W. Accordingly it is easy to allow the overtube to follow the way the endoscope moves.

As shown in in the overtube the lesion W is drawn into the lateral hole . Since the lateral hole is tilted with respect to the insertion direction the endoscope can directly approach the lesion W. Therefore as shown in the lesion W can be grasped by the grasping forceps almost without bending the grasping forceps and can be drawn into the chamber . In the present embodiment since the lateral hole is provided in the tapered portion it is possible to observe the lesion W without bending the distal end portion of the endoscope and to thus facilitate the procedure. Also the grasping forceps can be operated in a simple manner.

A sixth embodiment will be described with reference to . Components similar or identical to those of the afore described embodiments will be referenced by the same reference numerals and overlapping descriptions will be omitted.

As shown in a suture unit of the suturing device includes as a grasping unit the first jaw and the second jaw that is freely slidable toward or away from the first jaw .

The second jaw has a comb teeth shape in which teeth are arranged at regular intervals on the main body portion . Slide portions are provided at the proximal and distal ends of the second jaw . Through holes are formed in the slide portions in a direction parallel to each of the teeth and the pair of rails are inserted through respective through holes one by one. The rails are parallel to each other and respective ends of the pair of rails are held at holding portions provided at the proximal and distal ends of the first jaw .

To the slide portions of the second jaw wires are connected at positions closer to the longitudinal center of the second jaw than the pair of rails . The wires are passed through the holding portions of the first jaw and are then drawn in the forward and backward movement directions while assuming the shape of the outer circumference of a pin fixed to the inner wall of the chamber . Then the wires are incorporated into a single wire at a connection pipe and the single wire is connected to an operation wire . The operation wire is passed through a sheath fixed to the inner wall of the overtube and is connected to a slider of an operator side operation portion outside the body.

As shown in the pair of rails are fixed to the inner wall of the chamber . The slide portions are connected to the inner wall of the chamber via an elastic member such as a coil spring. Under unloaded conditions the second jaw is biased in a direction for moving the second jaw away from the first jaw .

In the suturing device in the initial state the suture unit is open and positioned over the lateral hole . When a handle is pulled after the lesion W is drawn in by the grasping forceps the operation wire is pulled causing the wires to pull the second jaw so as to be moved toward the first jaw . As a result as shown in the second jaw is slid to a position where the second jaw engages with the first jaw while resisting the force of the elastic member .

With this the biological tissues and are sandwiched between the first and second jaws and in a corrugated shape. Then the biological tissues and are sutured in a corrugated manner using the tissue penetrating needle . When the suture treatment is completed the tissue penetrating needle is removed from the biological tissues and and the operator s hand is released from the handle . Then the second jaw is pulled by the restoring force of the elastic member thereby opening the first and second jaws and .

The use of a ratchet type operator side operation portion as shown in may enable maintenance of the closed state or the predetermined degree of opening of the first and second jaws and . The operator side operation portion includes ratchet teeth arranged in the longitudinal direction on an operation portion main body . A claw that engages with ratchet teeth is formed in a handle . The engagement between the ratchet teeth and the claw is released by a button on the handle .

According to the present embodiment the grasping unit includes the first and second jaws and that are opened and closed in a sliding manner. Thus the grasping unit can be opened or closed while maintaining the same width from the proximal end side to the distal end side. Moreover a closing grasping force substantially of the same strength can be applied to the distal and proximal end sides. Since the first and second jaws and are attached to the inner wall of the chamber it is possible to place the jaws so as to be opposed to the lateral hole and to thus stabilize the operations.

A seventh embodiment will be described with reference to . Components similar or identical to those of the afore described embodiments will be referenced by the same reference numerals and overlapping descriptions will be omitted.

As shown in a suture unit of the suturing device includes as a grasping unit the first jaw and the second jaw that can be freely opened or closed with respect to the first jaw . The tissue penetrating needle is inserted through the shaft portion of the first jaw so as to be freely movable forward or backward. The suture thread is loosely bound to the exposed portion of the needle portion forming a knot .

One end of the suture thread is drawn outside the body. The other end of the suture thread is drawn to the distal end sides of the first and second jaws and while bypassing the first and second jaws and . A loop provided at the distal end of the suture thread is hooked on a hook portion see that protrudes from the inner wall of the chamber . A hook see is provided within the tissue penetrating needle so as to be freely moved forward or backward. The hook is connected to the slider of the first operation portion shown in . Around the outer surface of the tissue penetrating needle a knot pusher capable of pressing the knot is provided so as to be freely moved toward or backward.

In the present embodiment in a manner similar to the afore described embodiments after the lesion W is drawn into the chamber the biological tissues and on the outer circumference of the lesion W are sutured. During the suture treatment the second jaw is moved to sandwich the biological tissues and in a corrugated shape between the first and second jaws and . After this the tissue penetrating needle is moved forward to be sequentially penetrated through the teeth and and the biological tissues and .

Then the first operation portion is operated to allow the hook to protrude out from the distal end of the needle portion so that the hook is hooked on the loop at the distal end of the suture thread that is hooked on the hook portion . In this state when the hook is moved backward the loop is unhooked from the hook portion and is received in the needle portion .

Thereafter the first operation portion is operated to move the tissue penetrating needle in the backward direction. With this as shown in the suture thread is drawn into the through hole of the distal tooth and is then sequentially passed through the teeth and the biological tissues and from the distal end side. When the tissue penetrating needle is pulled out from the first and second jaws and the suture thread is passed through the biological tissues and .

When the knot pusher is moved forward as shown in the knot is extruded closer to the distal end side than the needle portion . As a result the suture thread having passed through the biological tissues and is passed through the knot and is drawn out to the operator side.

When the suture unit is moved backward after the second jaw is opened the biological tissues and through which the suture thread has been passed in a corrugated manner remain between the first and second jaws and . And the end of the suture thread connected from the knot and the end of the suture thread drawn out after passing through the knot are pulled by the backward movement of the suture unit . As a result as shown in the biological tissues and are overlapped with each other in a corrugated shape and the knot is fastened. The remaining portion of the suture thread is cut by scissor forceps or the like that is inserted through the endoscope .

According to the present embodiment since the suturing tool is composed only of the suture thread it is possible to minimize the number of elements detained in the body. Since the suture treatment can be performed such that the biological tissues and are fastened after the end of the suture thread is passed through the knot it is possible to simplify the procedure.

An eighth embodiment will be described with reference to . Components similar or identical to those of the first embodiment will be referenced by the same reference numerals and overlapping descriptions will be omitted.

As shown in the suturing device includes a suture unit . On a more distal side of the suturing device than the suture unit a first pre jet used as a retaining patch is held at a holding portion . As shown in the first pre jet is a thin rectangular member having chamfered corners. The holding portion protrudes from the inner wall of the chamber and has a substantially U shape that is open toward the inside of the chamber forming a slit so that the peripheral border of the first pre jet is sandwiched between both ends of the U shape.

The first pre jet constitutes a suturing tool . The suturing tool also includes the T bar the suture thread a second pre jet and the stopper . The second pre jet is provided at the distal end side of the stopper and the suture thread is passed through an approximately central portion of the second pre jet . The second pre jet is substantially of the same shape and formed of the same material as the first pre jet .

When suturing the biological tissues and in the state in which the biological tissues and are sandwiched between the first and second jaws and only the first jaw is shown in the first operation portion is operated to move the tissue penetrating needle in the forward direction. The tissue penetrating needle is sequentially passed through the teeth and the biological tissues and and the approximately central portion of the first pre jet from the operator side.

Then the pusher rod is moved forward to extrude the T bar to a more distal side than the first pre jet . After this the tissue penetrating needle is moved backward to remove the needle portion . When the second jaw is moved so as to separate the suture unit from the biological tissues and the suture thread remains after being passed through the biological tissues and in a corrugated manner. Incidentally the holding portion of the first pre jet holds only the peripheral border of the first pre jet . Therefore when the stopper is moved forward to pull the suture thread the first pre jet is pulled out from the holding portion by being pulled by the T bar .

As a result as shown in the T bar is pressed toward the distal end of the biological tissues and with the first pre jet interposed therebetween. Meanwhile the stopper is pressed toward the proximal end of the biological tissues and with the second pre jet interposed therebetween. Accordingly the biological tissues and are sutured. The procedure of the drawing in and entire resection of the lesion W is similar to that of the first embodiment.

In the present embodiment since the suturing tool includes the first and second pre jets and the T bar or the stopper does not make direct contact with the biological tissues and . Therefore it is possible to prevent a load from being concentrated on a partial area of the biological tissues and . Other advantages of the present embodiment are the same as the afore described embodiments.

The present invention is not limited to the afore described embodiments but various modifications are possible.

For example a suturing tool as shown in may be employed. The T bar is attached to the distal end of a suture thread the suture thread is passed through a fixing member and a loop is formed at the proximal end of the suture thread . As shown in the fixing member is formed of a long and thin plate having a hole at the center through which the suture thread is inserted. Both end portions of the plate are obliquely bent toward the proximal end portion of the suture thread forming a plate spring portion .

The plate spring portion has opposite end portions A that are cut in a semi circular shape. The plate spring portion makes sliding contact with the suture thread and can be elastically deformed toward the loop of the suture thread i.e. in the direction for widening the gap between the opposite end portions A. Therefore the suturing tool allows the fixing member to move toward the T bar .

However the plate spring portion is not deformed in the direction for narrowing the gap between the opposite end portions A because they interfere with each other. In addition because the suture thread is fastened by the end portions A the fixing member is not moved toward the loop .

As shown in when the fixing member is moved forward along the suture thread having passed through the biological tissues and the fixing member having a large surface area abuts the proximal end side of biological tissues and . As described above since the fixing member is not moved toward the loop i.e. in the direction of departing from the biological tissues and the biological tissues and can be sutured while abutting the T bar and the fixing member having the large surface area.

At this time the length of the T bar and the fixing member is preferably longer than the width of the biological tissues and overlapped in a corrugated manner. With this it is possible to press the entire width of the biological tissues and . Thus it is possible to suture the biological tissues and in a secure manner without leaving any gap.

In this case as shown in a slider cover a first entanglement preventing portion and another slider cover a second entanglement preventing portion may be provided so as to cover the lateral hole . When the lesion W is drawn into the lateral hole the opening of the lateral hole is narrowed to prevent other organs W from being drawn into the narrow opening of the lateral hole . When the suture treatment is completed the slider cover is moved to widen the opening of the lateral hole allowing the biological tissues and attached to the suturing tool to come out of the chamber in an easy manner. As the mechanism for controlling the opening of the lateral hole any mechanism described in connection with the afore described embodiments can be used.

Similar to a suture unit as shown in the first and second jaws and may be opened or closed in a bi parting manner. In the distal end portion of the shaft portion the first and second jaws and are pivotably supported on a pin . The proximal end portions of the first and second jaws and are connected to an operation member via a link mechanism . The operation member is connected to the slider of the second operation portion and is adapted to be freely moved forward or backward with respect to the shaft portion .

In this case as shown in the tissue penetrating needle may be separately provided. The tissue penetrating needle is inserted through a sheath and is positioned such that the distal end of the needle portion is opposed to the through holes and .

The afore described embodiments may be suitably combined with each other. For example the lateral hole of the fifth embodiment may be narrowed or the valve elements and of the third embodiment may be attached. Additionally or alternatively the suture units or of the sixth to eighth embodiments may be employed in any one of the first to fifth embodiments. In this case the tissue restricting member is not limited to the lateral hole but the wall surfaces in the longitudinal direction of the lateral hole or the like may be used as the tissue restricting member.

The mechanism for drawing the treatment target portion into the endoscope is not limited to the grasping forceps but various other drawing in methods such as suctioning may be used.

The present invention is applicable to an endoscopic treatment tool which when performing a treatment by drawing a treatment target portion into an endoscope can prevent other organs from being drawn into the endoscope together with the treatment target portion.

