---

title: Signaling a security breach of a protected set of files
abstract: Apparatus are provided that include a communication circuit, monitoring circuit, and an alert circuit and a method is provided that includes receiving at least a portion of a protected set of files including a tripwire file and at least one normal file, the at least one normal file including a number of attributes, and the tripwire file lacking an attribute of the at least one normal file; and detecting a sign of an activity related to the tripwire file of the protected set of files, wherein the protected set of files includes a protected database, the protected database including the at least one normal file and the tripwire file; and generating a signal indicating an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the detected sign of an activity related to the tripwire file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08209755&OS=08209755&RS=08209755
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08209755
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060531
---
The present application may be related to the following listed application s the Related Applications 

U.S. patent application entitled INDICATING A SECURITY BREACH OF A PROTECTED SET OF FILES naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud William Henry Mangione Smith John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 444 893 filed May 31 2006.

U.S. patent application entitled RECEIVING AN INDICATION OF A SECURITY BREACH OF A PROTECTED SET OF FILES naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud William Henry Mangione Smith John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 444 979 filed May 31 2006.

U.S. patent application entitled MONITORING A STATUS OF A DATABASE BY PLACING A FALSE IDENTIFIER IN THE DATABASE naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud William Henry Mangione Smith John D. Rinaldo Jr. Clarence T. Tegreene as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 445 485 filed May 31 2006.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art. In an embodiment an information store may include a computer storage media. In a further embodiment an information store may include a group of digital information storage devices. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory device.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as the computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers server computers game server computers web server computers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

At least one entity of the Merchant s point of sale unit the Processor and or the Card Issuing Bank illustrated in is likely to maintain a protected set of files. In an embodiment the protected set of files include at least one normal file corresponding in some manner to the customer s credit card the customer s account information the transaction and or similar records of other customers and other transactions. A protected set of files maintained by the Card Issuing Bank is used to illustrate an embodiment of the exemplary operational flow of . A tripwire file is caused to be included in the protected set of files maintained by the Card Issuing Bank that includes at least one normal account. For example the tripwire file may include a record of a tripwire credit card account having a limited functionality. In an alternative embodiment at least two tripwire files are caused to be included in the protected set of files. The at least one normal account includes least one record of valid credit card account having a full functionality.

An indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file is detected. For example a detected indicium of activity related to the tripwire file may include a receipt from the Processor of the credit card charge authorization request by the Card Issuing Bank as illustrated in . By way of further example a detected indicium of activity may include at least one of an information request an account attribute change request a funds transfer request an inquiry a query a charge a transaction a transfer request a deposit a claim a correction a change of attributes request a payment a refund request and or a benefit transfer related to the tripwire file. Since the tripwire account has only limited functionality and is not associated with a real customer any activity with respect to the tripwire account may indicate an unauthorized access or theft of the protected set of files that includes the tripwire account has occurred.

A signal is generated indicating an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the detected indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file. For example the generated signal may include a human perceivable indication of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the detected indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file. By way of further example the generated signal may include a machine readable signal indicating an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the detected indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file. The machine readable signal may be used to activate an additional security or protection for the set of files.

In another embodiment the exemplary operational flow of may be used to indicate a security breach of protected file sets in other industries. For example a health insurer may cause a tripwire health insurance file to be included in a protected set of health insurance files that includes at least one normal health insurance file. By way of further example a governmental unit such as US Department of Veterans Affairs may cause a tripwire veterans file to be included in a protected set of veterans files that includes at least one normal veterans file.

In an embodiment the marker circuit further includes a marker circuit for saving a tripwire file in a protected database that includes at least one normal file. In another embodiment the marker circuit further includes a marker circuit for saving a tripwire file misleadingly appearing to allow provision of a benefit to a beneficiary into a protected set of files that includes at least one regular file actually allowing provision of the benefit to another beneficiary. In a further embodiment the marker circuit further includes a marker circuit for saving a tripwire file in a protected set of files that includes at least one normal file. In an embodiment the tripwire file has a property that does not facilitate a return of an approval in response to a health insurance claim. Each normal file of the at least one normal file has a property that does facilitate a return of an approval in response to a health insurance claim. In an embodiment the marker circuit further includes a marker circuit for causing a tripwire file subtype to be included in a protected set of files of files that includes at least one normal file subtype. In another embodiment the marker circuit further includes a marker circuit for causing a tripwire file and a tripwire file identification tool to be included in a protected set of files that includes at least one normal file. In a further embodiment the marker circuit further includes a marker circuit for causing a tripwire file to be included in a protected set of files that includes at least one normal file and for causing a tripwire file identification tool to be included in another set of files.

In an embodiment the monitor circuit further includes a monitor circuit for detecting an indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file in response to at least two instances of an activity related to the tripwire file. In another embodiment the monitor circuit further includes a monitor circuit for detecting at least one of an indicium of a credit card charge authorization request an account information change request a funds transfer request an inquiry a query a charge a transaction a claim a correction a change of attributes request a refund and or a benefits transfer related to the tripwire file.

In an embodiment the notification circuit further includes a notification circuit for generating an electrical signal indicating an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the detected indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file . In a further embodiment the notification circuit further includes a notification circuit for generating a human perceptible indication of an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the detected indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file.

In an embodiment the apparatus may further include a sentry circuit for broadcasting a human understandable indication of the occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the detected indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file . In another embodiment the apparatus may further include a fortification circuit for facilitating application of a security measure to the protected set of files in response to the detected indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file. In further embodiment the apparatus may include the fortification circuit for facilitating application of a security measure to another set of files in response to the detected indicium of an activity related to the tripwire file.

In an embodiment the apparatus may be used to implement the operational flow of in the environment illustrated in . For example the Card Issuing Bank of may employ the apparatus and the operational flow to discover a security breach to its protected set of files that includes its normal credit card files. By way of further example the Processor of may employ the apparatus and the operational flow to discover a security breach to any protected set of files it maintains.

In an embodiment the apparatus may include a means for broadcasting a human understandable indication of an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files. In another embodiment the apparatus may include a means for facilitating application of a security measure to the protected set of files.

In an embodiment the information store includes a computer storage media and or a quantum memory device. In another embodiment the information store further includes an information store configured by a database that includes a record of at least one fully operational account and a record of a limited operational account . In a further embodiment the information store further includes an information store configured by a database that includes a record of at least one account facilitating provision of a benefit and a record of a limited operational account not facilitating provision of the benefit. In another embodiment the information store further includes an information store configured by a database that includes at least one normal credit card account subtype and a limited operational credit card account subtype.

In an embodiment the monitor module further includes a monitor module operable to detect a sign of at least one of a financial transaction card charge authorization request an account information change request a funds transfer request an inquiry a query a charge a transaction a claim a correction a change of attributes request a refund and or a benefit transfer related to the limited operational account. In another embodiment the alert module further includes an alert module operable to generate an electronic signal indicating an unauthorized activity related to the database in response to the detected sign of an activity related to the limited operational account . In a further embodiment the alert module further includes an alert module operable to generate a human understandable indication of an unauthorized activity related to the database in response to the detected sign of an activity related to the limited operational account.

In an embodiment the database manager device further includes a communications module operable to broadcast a human understandable indication of an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the database in response to the detected sign of an activity related to the limited operational account . In another embodiment the database manager device further includes a fortification module operable to facilitate changing a protection status of the database in response to the detected sign of an activity related to the limited operational account.

In use the apparatus may be used to implement the operational flow of in the environment illustrated in . For example the Card Issuing Bank of may employ the apparatus and the operational flow to discover a security breach to its protected set of files that includes its normal credit card files. By way of further example the Processor of may employ the apparatus and the operational flow to discover a security breach to any protected set of files it maintains.

In an embodiment the operational flow of may be implemented in the environment illustrated in . For example the Card Issuing Bank of the operational flow to discover a security breach to its protected set of files that includes its normal credit card files. By way of further example the Processor of may employ the apparatus and the operational flow to discover a security breach to a protected set of files maintained by the Card Issuing Bank.

The monitoring circuit includes a monitoring circuit for detecting a sign of an activity related to a tripwire file of a protected set of files the protected set of files including at least one normal file and a tripwire file . The protected set of files may include an at least a portion of the protected set of files communicated from the protected set of files . In an embodiment the at least a portion of the protected set of files may be saved in an information store local to the apparatus . In another embodiment the protected set of files may be saved in a remote information store not shown available to the apparatus over the network. In a further embodiment the protected set of files may be saved in the remote information store available to the apparatus over the network. The alert circuit includes an alert circuit for generating a signal indicating an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the detected sign of an activity related to a tripwire file.

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a communications circuit for receiving from another party the protected set of files that includes the at least one normal file and the tripwire file. In a further embodiment the communications circuit further includes a communications circuit for transmitting an indication of an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in a manner receivable by an owner and or administrator of the protected set of files in response to the detected sign of an activity related to a tripwire file. For example the owner and or administrator of the protected set of files may include the database owner administrator . In another alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a guard circuit for facilitating application of a security measure to the protected set of files in response to the detected sign of an activity related to a tripwire file.

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a means for receiving from another party at least a portion of the another parties protected set of files that includes the at least one normal file and the tripwire file. In a further embodiment the apparatus includes a means for broadcasting a human understandable indication of an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files. In another embodiment the apparatus includes a means for transmitting an indication of an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in a manner receivable by an owner and or administrator of the protected set of files. In an embodiment the apparatus includes a means for facilitating application of a security measure to the protected set of files in response to the detected sign of an activity related to a tripwire file.

The communications device includes a communications device operable to receive an at least a portion of a protected database that includes at least one fully operational account and a limited operational tripwire account . In an embodiment the operability to receive an at least a portion of a protected database includes an operability to receive at least a portion of a protected database of apparatus . The information store includes an information storage device configurable by a received at least a portion of a protected database. In another embodiment the information store further includes an information store configured by the received at least a portion of a protected database.

The database manager circuit includes a recognizer module operable to detect a sign of an activity related to the limited operational tripwire account. The database manager circuit further includes an alert module operable to generate signal indicating an unauthorized activity related to the received at least a portion of a database in response to the detected sign of an activity related to a limited operational tripwire account . In a further embodiment the alert module further includes an alert module operable to generate signal indicating an unauthorized activity related to the received at least a portion of a database and to transmit the signal in a manner receivable by an owner and or administrator of the received at least a portion of a database.

In an alternative embodiment the process further includes generating a signal indicating an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the received signal indicating an occurrence of an activity related to the tripwire file. In another embodiment the process further includes facilitating application of a security measure to the protected set of files in response to the received signal indicating an occurrence of an activity related to the tripwire file. In an alternative embodiment the computer program product may be implemented in hardware software and or firmware.

In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a means for facilitating application of a security measure to the protected set of files in response to the received signal indicating an occurrence of an activity corresponding to the tripwire file. In another embodiment the apparatus includes a means for generating a human perceivable signal indicating an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected set of files in response to the received signal indicating an occurrence of an activity corresponding to the tripwire file.

In an alternative embodiment the security assessment module further includes a security assessment module operable to periodically monitor an unauthorized usage state of the fake financial transaction card identifier. In another embodiment the security assessment module further includes a security assessment module operable to periodically monitor an unauthorized tender state of the fake financial transaction card identifier.

In a further embodiment the apparatus includes an alert module operable to generate a signal perceivable by an owner and or an administrator of the set of files indicating an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the customer database. In another embodiment the apparatus includes a transmitter module operable to broadcast a human understandable indication of an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the customer database. In a further embodiment the apparatus includes a safeguard module operable to facilitate application of a security measure to the customer database.

The First Merchant may include a dummy financial transaction card identifier or a fake card identifier as described in conjunction with in their protected customer database by performing the operational flow described in conjunction with . In an alternative embodiment the First Merchant may include a dummy financial transaction card identifier in their protected customer database using the apparatus described in conjunction with . Next the First Merchant maintains the dummy financial transaction card identifier dormant. For example the dummy financial transaction card identifier can be kept secret from everyone except an administrator of the customer database. The First Merchant periodically monitors a status of the dummy financial transaction card identifier. For example the First Merchant can monitor information received from others relating to stolen and fraudulent card use such as information from the Card Issuing Bank the Processor and or others. Appearance of the dummy financial transaction card identifier in such information may be treated by the First Merchant as a change in status of the dummy financial transaction card identifier from a dormant status to a tendered in commerce status. This First Merchant may regard a change in status of the dummy financial transaction card identifier as indicating that a security breach has occurred to their customer database . A human perceivable signal may be generated using the display indicating an occurrence of an activity related to the protected customer database. An application of a security measure to the protected customer database may be facilitated using the security tool .

In another embodiment a prepaid long distance telephone card issuer may include a dummy prepaid telephone card identifier in its protected database that includes genuine prepaid telephone card identifiers. The prepaid long distance telephone card issuer would maintain the dummy prepaid telephone card identifier dormant. The prepaid long distance telephone card issuer can monitor a status of the dummy prepaid telephone card identifier. The monitoring may include monitoring information generated by others indicating stolen or fraudulent prepaid telephone card identifiers. Appearance of the dummy prepaid telephone card identifier in such information may treated by the prepaid long distance telephone card issuer as a change in status of dummy prepaid telephone card identifier from a dormant status to a tendered in commerce status. This change in status of the dummy prepaid telephone card identifier may be regarded by the prepaid long distance telephone card issuer as an indication that a security breach has occurred to their database.

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a means for generating a signal perceivable by an owner and or an administrator of the set of files indicating an occurrence of an unauthorized activity related to the protected customer database. In another embodiment the apparatus includes a means for broadcasting a human understandable indication of an occurrence of a unauthorized activity related to the protected customer database. In a further means the apparatus includes a means for facilitating application of a security measure to the protected customer database.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

