---

title: System and method for design of a component
abstract: A design system is accessible to a designer and a plurality of manufacturers. The design system comprises a first user interface configured to receive design information for a component from the designer. The design system further comprises a second user interface configured to receive manufacturing information from the plurality of manufacturers. The manufacturing information comprises at least process cost information. The design system further comprises a database comprising the manufacturing information associated with each of the plurality of manufacturers. The design system further comprises a cost estimation module. The cost estimation module is configured to generate a cost estimate for producing the component for each of the plurality of manufacturers. The cost estimate is at least partially based on the process cost information. The cost estimation module is further configured to output the cost estimate for one or more of the plurality of manufacturers to the first user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07603191&OS=07603191&RS=07603191
owner: Idealab
number: 07603191
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060216
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 653 552 filed 16 Feb. 2005 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to computer based design systems and relates more specifically to computer based design systems that are capable of using dynamically updated information to facilitate the design process.

The conventional approach to an engineering design and development effort tends to be inefficient costly and cumbersome in many respects. For example the input that designers receive from manufacturers during the design process is generally limited to information relating to particular manufacturing capabilities and therefore designers often generate designs without the benefit of reliable estimates of the cost or time required to manufacture a component. While prototype machine shops are helpful in the process of finalizing a component design they can be expensive and generally may not provide a good indication of costs associated with high volume manufacturing.

Even when a design is completed the process of finding a qualified manufacturer typically involves an inefficient process of identifying potential candidates through word of mouth or a costly search. Cultural and or language barriers often exist. It is often difficult to accurately determine the quality of a manufacturer s past performance and accurately predict the quality of the proposed future performance. Even where several acceptable manufacturers are identified such a group is likely to represent only a fraction of the qualified pool of manufacturers. This lessens competition and often results in increased costs and decreased quality for the designer. Furthermore even when a qualified manufacturer is identified the process of negotiating an agreement on performance typically requires numerous phone calls and face to face meetings. Where manufacturing limitations result in design modifications additional negotiation between the designer and the manufacturer is often required before a mutually acceptable design is agreed upon that meets both performance and manufacturing requirements. The time and effort entailed in this process is usually significant.

In view of these challenges to the conventional approach several computer based systems for estimating design and manufacturing costs have been developed. For example systems have been developed that are configured to receive design data relating to an object that has been designed using a computer aided design CAD program. Such data is referred to herein as design information or component design information . Such systems are capable of extracting cost factors from the design data such as the size and shape of the parts that comprise the object. Manufacturing cost estimates are then generated based on generalized manufacturing rules and the extracted cost factors thereby providing an automated alternative to the conventional approach described herein. These systems allow cost estimates to be generated even when a project is at a preliminary planning stage.

Computer based systems that are configured to provide automated cost estimation address many of the disadvantages of the conventional approach to locating and negotiating with a qualified manufacturer. However such systems still suffer from significant disadvantage. For example when generalized manufacturing rules are applied to the cost factors that are extracted from the design information it is not possible to account for manufacturer specific variances and capabilities. For example such a configuration will result in inaccurate estimates if a particular manufacturer is able to obtain raw materials at a particularly reduced price as compared to other manufacturers. Similarly use of generalized cost factors cannot provide a designer with accurate data related to a specific manufacturer such as production times manufacturing capabilities and quality ratings based on past production runs. Thus in view of the foregoing an improved design system has been developed that is capable of providing a designer with dynamically updated information associated with potential manufacturers. Example embodiments of such a system are disclosed herein.

In one embodiment of the present invention a design system is accessible to a designer and a plurality of manufacturers. The design system comprises a first user interface configured to receive design information for a component from the designer. The design system further comprises a second user interface configured to receive manufacturing information from the plurality of manufacturers. The manufacturing information comprises at least process cost information. The design system further comprises a database comprising the manufacturing information associated with each of the plurality of manufacturers. The design system further comprises a cost estimation module. The cost estimation module is configured to generate a cost estimate for producing the component for each of the plurality of manufacturers. The cost estimate is at least partially based on the process cost information. The cost estimation module is further configured to output the cost estimate for one or more of the plurality of manufacturers to the first user interface.

In another embodiment of the present invention a system comprises a first user interface configured to receive design information for a component from a designer. The system further comprises a second user interface configured to receive manufacturing information from a plurality of manufacturers. The system further comprises an estimation module configured to produce generated manufacturing information for the component and design modification information for the component. The generated manufacturing information and the design modification information are based on the manufacturing information received from the plurality of manufacturers.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method comprises receiving design information for a component. The method further comprises receiving manufacturing information from a plurality of manufacturers. The manufacturing information includes material cost information and process cost information. The method further comprises identifying one or more qualified manufacturers from the plurality of manufacturers based on the design information and the received manufacturing information. The method further comprises producing generated manufacturing information for a qualified manufacturer based on the manufacturing information associated with the qualified manufacturer. The generated manufacturing information includes at least a cost estimate and a lead time estimate.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method comprises receiving from a designer via an electronic network design information that defines a component. The method further comprises generating an estimate for a manufacturer to produce the component. The estimate a is based on manufacturing information received from the manufacturer and b includes a cost estimate. The manufacturing information is received from the manufacturer before the design information is received from the designer. The method further comprises providing the cost estimate to the designer in the form of a binding quotation. The method further comprises receiving a quotation acceptance from the designer. The method further comprises providing the manufacturer with an order to produce the component.

Disclosed herein are several embodiments of an improved design system. Certain of the disclosed embodiments are intended to allow designers to more efficiently obtain accurate information from multiple manufacturers suppliers assemblers builders processors vendors and other purveyors of goods and or services collectively referred to herein as manufacturers . This allows the product development cycle to be accelerated thereby advantageously reducing product development costs for designers and reducing factory idle time and administrative costs for manufacturers. schematically illustrates how an example design system facilitates communications and transactions between a designer and manufacturers.

Certain embodiments of the improved design system disclosed herein are configured to interface with and be accessed using a CAD program as illustrated in . As used herein the term CAD program refers generally to a computer program that is used to assist in the design of a tangible system or object. For example a CAD program is usable to design and construct a virtual representation of parts objects and articles of manufacture collectively referred to herein as components . The range of components that may be concurrently designed and priced with the present invention include but are not limited to components machined from metal billets such as aluminum engine parts molded plastic or ceramic hand crafted components produced from wooden or other natural materials building materials components ground from blanks including glass lenses semiconductor devices solar panels printed circuit boards and electronic circuits and parts manufactured from sheet metal or plate steel. Commonly used CAD programs include AutoCAD available from Autodesk Inc. San Rafael Calif. Visio available from Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and SolidWorks available from SolidWorks Corporation Concord Mass. although the design systems disclosed herein are not limited to use with any particular CAD program.

Interfacing the design system with a CAD program advantageously allows a designer to interact with the design system at the same time a component is designed. This also allows data to be efficiently transferred between the CAD program the design system the designer and a manufacturer.

In certain embodiments the design system provides the designer with dynamically updated information that is based on a component design produced using a CAD program as the component is designed and modified. For example in one application the information generated by the design system includes a cost estimate for manufacturing the component and an estimate of the length of time it will take to deliver the manufactured component also referred to as lead time . Given this information the designer is able to modify the component design to reduce the manufacturing cost or the lead time for example before the design is finalized. Optionally the design system provides the designer with information from a plurality of manufacturers thereby enabling the designer to tailor the component design to the manufacturing capabilities and limitations of a broader range of manufacturers.

The design system includes a database to which manufacturers submit manufacturing information. As used herein manufacturing information refers to information that defines or otherwise characterizes the capabilities or manufacturing resources of a particular manufacturer the costs associated with using the manufacturer s capabilities and the times at which the resources may be available or the components producible. Thus manufacturing information includes but is not limited to one or more of the following the number and type of machines or other resources the manufacturer has available the capability of those machines or resources to perform specific manufacturing operations the cost of using the manufacturer s machines or resources including applicable costing algorithms for the machines and or other processes specific to a particular manufacturer the cost to perform specific manufacturing operations with the manufacturer s machines or resources the scheduling availability of the manufacturer s machines and the cost for use of raw materials. The design system has the flexibility to allow manufacturers to enter manufacturing information in a variety of ways. For example in one application a manufacturer provides a listing of available machines and the corresponding charges for using those machines per unit of time. In another application the design system receives information regarding machines having functionality that cannot be or that is not analytically parameterized. In this case the design system associates such machines with a capability performance such as the capability to process material at a particular feed rate cutting rate or grinding rate the capability to accept a certain stock size the capability to machine with a particular travel distance or the capability to machine with a particular number or type of axes. The design system translates the use of these capabilities into a price or price range based on a machine specific costing algorithm provided by the manufacturer.

The design system also optionally includes a driver architecture that allows new manufacturing capabilities to be added to the database such as would result from the availability of new machining tools. In this case the manufacturer or other entity provides the design system with software drivers that include both the capabilities of the new tools and supplies the design system database with the costs and lead times associated with using the new tools. This configuration advantageously provides the design system with a flexible architecture that is capable of handling later developed manufacturing capabilities. This optional open architecture also advantageously enables the design system to incorporate data and or algorithms from manufacturers including simulators for the manufacturer s tools. For example in one embodiment the design system executes an existing tool simulator that is provided by a manufacturer.

Regardless of how the manufacturing information is collected from the manufacturers the design system is optionally configured to abstract the functionality of the manufacturers machines thereby allowing the available functionalities to be applied to the component designs that the designer produces using the CAD program. The design system cross references the features and functions of the component with the available manufacturing functionalities and determines which manufacturing processes are usable to manufacture the component. The design system is optionally configured to automatically select preferred manufacturing tools. The designer is provided the opportunity to override an automatic manufacturing tool selection optionally from a list of alternate tools stored in the database.

Once the requisite manufacturing tools are selected the tool functionality is applied to the component design. By combining the results of this application with the costing algorithms that are also stored in the design system database the system generates cost estimates or information that can be used to generate cost estimates for manufacturing the component design. These cost estimates are optionally supplemented with other cost factors such as setup costs material handling costs and costs associated with rush delivery requests. Furthermore by collecting additional information from manufacturers such as factory scheduling data the cost estimates generated by the design system can be supplemented with lead time estimates and estimates of other parameters of interest to the designer. Thus this information produced by the design system which includes cost estimate information but is not necessarily limited to cost estimates is generally referred to herein as the generated manufacturing information .

The generated manufacturing information is optionally presented to the designer using the CAD program user interface as a quotation that becomes contractually binding between the designer and manufacturer when accepted by the designer. Quotations are generated by the design system through an automated or semi automated process thus allowing the quotation to be provided to the designer in a relatively short time frame as compared to the conventional negotiation process that occurs between designers and manufacturers which often takes days weeks or longer. For example in a semi automated process a representative of the manufacturer approves the quotation before it is provided to the designer. Where a designer accepts a binding quotation the design system optionally notifies the manufacturer and provides the manufacturer with additional design details that are needed to begin work on the job. In such a system both designers and manufacturers agree to standard terms before using the design system. Optionally manufacturer specific terms are supplied to the design system database by the manufacturer and are presented to the designer before a binding quotation is accepted.

In embodiments wherein the database contains manufacturing information from multiple manufacturers the design system advantageously provides the designer with an easy way to compare the capabilities of multiple manufacturers. For example in one such embodiment the generated manufacturing information is provided in the form of a list of quotations received from different manufacturers. The quotation can include a table or other data representation that includes some or all of the following the manufacturer supplier name manufacturing cost per unit setup cost material handling cost expedited delivery cost lead time manufacturer quality rating required deposit down payment manufacturer location and other data such as other manufacturing information provided by manufacturers via user interface discussed below. The quotations are optionally sorted based on user specified and or default criteria such as manufacturing cost per unit setup cost material handling cost expedited delivery cost lead time manufacturer quality rating deposit down payment manufacturer location and other quote criteria. This allows the designer to select a manufacturer based on a comparison of a wide variety of different factors although in certain embodiments the design system is optionally configured to automatically select a preferred manufacturer based on predefined criteria or to automatically select a subset of the manufacturers based on predefined criteria.

In embodiments in which a manufacturer quality rating is provided to the designer this rating is based on one or more factors that are developed through customer feedback. Examples of such factors include but are not limited to on time delivery ratings product quality ratings customer service ratings and other data based on the manufacturer s prior transactions and history. Manufacturer quality ratings help designers evaluate the various manufacturers being considered for a particular project. Optionally analogous ratings are provided to evaluate designers as well as manufacturers. Designer quality ratings help manufacturers evaluate the qualities of a certain designer such as payment history and credit rating. For example certain manufacturers will use this information to justify requiring a larger down payment for a project submitted by a designer with a poor credit rating or payment history. These features advantageously allow both manufacturers and designers to build trust amongst each other and to make more informed choices about the parties with which they elect to do business.

As described herein this system advantageously allows the designer to modify the component design based on the generated manufacturing information. Such modifications optionally include modifications to component dimensions dimension tolerances or materials. In some cases making such modifications will qualify or disqualify certain manufacturers. The design system is configured to dynamically update the generated manufacturing information based on the modified component design instantaneously or in substantially real time thereby showing the designer what effect a particular modification has on the manufacturability of the component if any.

In addition to providing a designer with real time feedback regarding possible design modifications the design system optionally includes an improvement engine that is configured to provide the designer with suggestions to improve the design in certain respects. Such suggestions are generally referred to herein as design modification information . For example there is generally a nonlinear relationship between the tolerance of a dimension and the cost of manufacturing a component built to the specified tolerance extremely small dimensional tolerances typically result in extremely high manufacturing costs. In this case the design system improvement engine is configured to recognize when a particular design specification such as an especially narrow dimensional tolerance accounts for a disproportionate portion of the manufacturing cost and or lead time for a component. When such a condition is detected the improvement engine provides the designer with a suggestion to relax the narrow tolerance to produce a substantial reduction in the manufacturing cost and or lead time.

These same principles are also applicable to other design parameters and therefore in certain embodiments the improvement engine is capable of providing suggestions regarding parameters such as materials dimensions surface finishes and lead times. For example in one application the improvement engine notifies the designer that increasing a bending radius will allow the component lead time to be reduced substantially. Or in another application the improvement engine notifies the designer that changing from metal to plastic will result in a substantial price reduction without compromising the component strength. Or in yet another application the improvement engine notifies the designer that using a smaller bracket will result in a substantially lower assembly cost. The improvement engine is optionally configured to make certain design modifications automatically such as a design modification that improves the product design against price and or lead time.

The improvement engine is optionally configured to allow designers to express the functionality of a component in a series of objective rule forms. This is in contrast to conventional systems where the designer is limited to expressing functionality using specific dimensions and materials. In contrast to conventional systems certain embodiments of the improvement engine allow a designer to specify objective rule forms using a programming language structure. This allows a component to inherit attributes and goals which the improvement engine uses to create a component design that complies with the defined goals. Goals that are used in this context include both physical goals such as component size weight strength and manufacturing goals such as cost minimization and lead time minimization . Physical goals are optionally defined as being price independent such that the parameter must be satisfied without regard to cost or lead time.

The improvement engine advantageously generates its suggestions based on the actual functionalities supplied by the manufacturers and stored in the database such that accepting a suggestion results in an advantage as defined by a manufacturer. For example in one embodiment the improvement engine generates a suggestion index based on the specific manufacturing capabilities provided by the manufacturers. This represents a significant improvement over conventional design suggestion systems where suggestions are generated by generic rules that are not associated with a manufacturer capability and therefore result in an advantage that might come to fruition during manufacturing depending on the actual capabilities of the selected manufacturer.

The design system is optionally configured to allow the designer to override suggested design parameters and specify different non optimal parameters to understand the impact such changes would have. For example the design system is optionally configured to provide pricing comparisons for different fabrication techniques such as machining compared to molding stamping etching or casting. Additionally certain embodiments of the design system are configured to provide dynamic pricing of standard off the shelf components from one or more suppliers. For example when the design system identifies a standard component the system is optionally configured to obtain price quotations for the component from suppliers optionally by soliciting bids from the buyers based on quantities called for by the designer. In this case the design system is capable of automatically selecting parts from suppliers catalogs that meet designer specified criteria and or rule based objectives determined by the CAD program.

Often a component design will comprise several subcomponents. In this case the design system is optionally capable of separately presenting the designer with generated manufacturing information for both the subcomponents and the assembled component. This advantageously allows the designer to accumulate cost and lead time estimates as an assembly design is constructed thereby providing the designer with an indication of when a particularly expensive or long lead time subcomponent is added to the assembly. Optionally the system can generate a report for a component that includes a breakdown to subcomponents wherein the report lists the cost and lead time for each subcomponent wherein a subcomponent is identified by a part number name from each manufacturer or for a subset of manufacturers and optionally includes other information as well. The user can instruct the system to sort the report based on cost on lead time on manufacturer name or other criteria.

The design system is also optionally capable of separately presenting the designer with generated manufacturing information that is related to manufacturing the subcomponents such as manufacturing cost and lead time and that is related to assembling the subcomponents such as assembly cost and lead time . Generated manufacturing information that is related to assembling the subcomponents is referred to herein as generated assembly information . In certain embodiments the generated assembly information is generated by the actual vendors proposing to perform the assembly such information optionally represents a quotation that becomes binding when accepted by the designer. In other embodiments the generated assembly information is generated by dividing the assembly into individual time motion elements that are individually priced and optionally including a labor cost factor where appropriate.

The ability to separately produce generated manufacturing information for subcomponents is particularly useful in cases where a single vendor does not have the capability to produce a complete component as designed. This allows the designer to specify optionally with the assistance of the design system the preferred value chain for manufacturing and assembling a complete product. The ability to separately generate assembly cost estimates is particularly useful in cases where the cost for manual assembly is to be compared with the cost for machine or automated assembly.

An example design process using an example embodiment of the design system disclosed herein is as follows. A designer defines a component such as a three dimensional component using a CAD program. For standardized component types this typically involves recognizing the object as a standard item in a CAD database for example a dowel and calling predefined object costing attributes from the CAD database. For standard items costing attributes include data such as the number of items used in a particular assembly. For customized component types this typically involves recognizing that the object is manufactured using a particular manufacturing process for example by machining and determining the appropriate costing attributes for such a process. For customized items costing attributes include feature data for the component which is used for example to determine the manufacturing steps used to produce the component such as the number of holes or the number of bends in a component. In either case the costing attributes are generated by the CAD program and are passed to the design system. The design system produces generated manufacturing information for the component based on the costing algorithms and the other manufacturing information stored in the design system database. Thus the costing algorithms that manufacturers submit to the design system database are compatible with the costing attributes generated by the CAD program in this example embodiment.

Using the manufacturer selector to select another manufacturer causes the assembly pane to display cost lead time and or other data for the other manufacturer. In other embodiments generated manufacturing information for multiple manufacturers is displayed simultaneously in the assembly pane such as by using a tabular format. The assembly pane also optionally includes an update control and a bid submission control . The update control is usable to update the data shown in the assembly pane when the component design is modified. The bid submission control is usable to accept the pricing and lead time terms displayed in the assembly pane and to submit a binding order to the selected manufacturer. In embodiments wherein the selected manufacturer is not offering a binding quotation the bid submission control is excluded or deactivated.

The assembly pane is optionally configured to provide additional manufacturing information and or generated manufacturing information about the items provided in the component list . For example in certain embodiments the manufacturer s production capacity is provided in terms of components per unit time. Similarly in applications where it is possible for a component to be produced using different materials or different manufacturing techniques a manufacturer s capacity to provide such alternatives is also optionally listed in the assembly pane .

As illustrated in in certain embodiments the user interface includes a multi feature assembly pane an example of which is illustrated in . The multi feature pane includes a suggestion window used to provide the designer with suggestions to improve the component design as described herein. The multi feature pane further includes a plurality of expandable tabs through with additional manufacturing information and or generated manufacturing information is provided. For example in the illustrated embodiment the expandable tabs display design information such as physical and or structural properties of a selected component manufacturer information such as manufacturer quality history and minimum order quantity and or generated manufacturing information such as estimated cost and estimated lead time . The expandable tabs also display costing information thereby allowing the designer to see how much of a particular component cost is attributed to machine setup costs material costs finishing costs handling costs shipping costs and other costs.

Still referring to the multi feature pane is also optionally configured to graphically display information regarding the component and or the manufacturer. For example graph illustrates a plot of component cost versus order quantity indicating to the designer that substantial savings are obtained if a large quantity order is placed. As another example graph illustrates a plot of component cost versus lead time indicating to the designer that substantial savings are obtained if the components are not requested to be manufactured in a short time period. Other data is presented in other embodiments such as cost as a function of physical dimension and cost as a function of tolerance. The graphs are optionally displayed in a larger window as illustrated in in which hovering a pointing device over a selected portion of the graph provides the designer with a data associated with the selected portion of the graph.

The multi feature pane is capable of providing detailed design information and or generated manufacturing information as described herein for multiple subcomponents that comprise an assembly. For example illustrates a multi feature pane including a plurality of nested tabs. Specifically the nested tabs include a plurality of upper level tabs corresponding to a plurality of components wherein selecting an upper level tab displays a plurality of lower level tabs corresponding to design information and or generated manufacturing information specific to the selected component.

The design system is optionally configured to provide the designer with a data window that is used to provide the designer with reference data for a selected material finish or other property. For example in an embodiment wherein the component properties pane is used to select the material from which the component is manufactured the data window displays physical structural and other data for available materials. The data displayed in the data window is collected from one or more databases that are internal and or external to the design system.

As described herein the design system includes a database to which manufacturers submit manufacturing information including costing algorithms. illustrates an example user interface for collecting such information from manufacturers. In an example embodiment the manufacturer accesses the user interface via a browser using a secure network such as a secure Internet connection. The user interface allows manufacturers to enter capabilities for different manufacturing categories such as machining and plastic molding in the illustrated example. Manufacturers supply information regarding different machines available for the manufacturing categories . In the illustrated embodiments common machines are listed in drop down menus thus further facilitating data entry for the manufacturer. For common machines different model and option categories are provided thereby further defining the manufacturer s capabilities for the design system. This further definition also enables the design system to more closely associate the manufacturer capabilities with component design features defined by the designer using the CAD program. Optionally the manufacturer can parameterize the capabilities of a non standard machine or a machine not listed in the user interface . For example in one embodiment the design system includes an open application programming interface such that the design system is capable of tracking other manufacturer capabilities.

Still referring to the manufacturer is also optionally prompted to enter costs and lead times for the available machines. The design system uses such information for the generation of estimates presented in the assembly pane and the manufacturer pane as described herein. For example by prompting a manufacturer to enter lead times the design system is integrated with a manufacturer s system for scheduling use of certain machines and or tools thereby providing the designer with more accurate lead time estimates.

The user interface is also capable of prompting the manufacturer to enter supplemental options such as supplemental costs associated with a rush order request or whether binding quotations should be presented to the designer. If binding quotations should be presented to the designer the manufacturer uses the user interface to supply terms and conditions that must be presented to and accepted by the designer before a binding quotation is formally accepted. Other options are presented in other embodiments including the option for manufacturers to define new manufacturing categories or new manufacturing capabilities not listed among the preexisting selections. This option is particularly useful for manufacturers having nonstandard machines or machines with specialized machining capabilities.

Optionally an update request is automatically periodically sent by the system to the manufacturer wherein the manufacturer is requested to provide updated manufacturing information via the user interface or otherwise. For example a system operator can specify that a update request is to be sent out every week every month every quarter every year or otherwise. This better ensures that the system will have current or fairly current manufacturing information regarding the manufacturer. The update requests can be sent via an email wherein the email includes a link to the user interface or via other communication mediums. Optionally the update request can be sent in response to an event such as the submission of greater than a certain number of orders to the manufacturer since the last update by the manufacturer.

Once the designer has received the generated manufacturing information the designer can continue to define the component design as illustrated in operational block . In some cases additional design modifications are based on additional design goals as defined by the designer while in other cases additional design modifications are based on the generated manufacturing information. This process of modifying the design and producing updated generated manufacturing information based on the modifications is optionally repeated one or many times as illustrated in decisional block . When the designer decides that the design is complete or at a desired stage of design the designer will have generated manufacturing information from one or more manufacturers having the capabilities required by the finished component design. This generated manufacturing information is provided to the designer using for example the assembly pane illustrated in the multi feature assembly pane illustrated in and or the manufacturer pane illustrated in . This allows the designer to select a preferred manufacturer based on the generated manufacturing information. In certain embodiments the designer selects multiple preferred manufacturers based on different capabilities such as a first preferred manufacturer for machining and a second preferred manufacturer for plating.

For manufacturers that have not authorized the generation of quotations that become binding when accepted the designer selects the preferred manufacturer and submits a request for a binding quotation to that manufacturer as illustrated in operational block . The manufacturer then has the option to submit a binding quotation based on the estimated terms generated by the design system as illustrated in operational block . This arrangement advantageously gives the manufacturer the option to review the component design before being bound to a production contract. For manufacturers that have authorized the generation of quotations that become binding when accepted the designer selects the bid proposed by the preferred manufacturer thus generating a binding contract between the designer and the manufacturer as illustrated in operational block . This design system then submits the component design to the selected manufacturer with a notification that the designer has accepted the binding quotation as illustrated in operational block . This arrangement advantageously expedites the process of selecting a manufacturer.

The CAD program enables the designer to specify properties of a component such as geometry materials surface finishes dimensions and dimensional tolerances. The CAD program includes but is not limited to geometry kernel infrastructure graphical display tools and a user interface. The CAD program also includes an application programming interface API not shown that allows other programming modules such as the design system to access the mathematical representations of component designs defined in the CAD program . Providing such access advantageously allows the design system to directly modify a component design for example when a design modification suggested by the design system is accepted by the designer. In an example embodiment the CAD program is capable of importing and exporting files using a variety of different file types.

The CAD program is configured to communicate with one or more CAD databases containing CAD information used to define the components designed using the CAD program . Such information includes but is not limited to geometric data dimensional data dimensional tolerance data and manufacturing feature data. In an example embodiment the CAD program has an internal database containing CAD information. The CAD program is additionally or alternatively configured to access one or more external databases containing CAD information such as an external database managed by the design system . Embodiments wherein the CAD program is configured to access an external database are particularly advantageous where the CAD program is not configured to analyze the manufacturability of designed components because in these cases the internal database will have a limited amount of manufacturing feature data.

Still referring to the design system includes a feature identification engine that is configured to identify individual manufacturable features of a component defined using the CAD program . As used herein a manufacturable feature represents a manufacturing process such as a drilled hole a punched square a bend a milled pocket a weld or a surface treatment. In one embodiment the feature identification engine is configured to automatically identify manufacturable features as they are defined in the CAD program . For example in one embodiment manufacturable features are identified by an algorithm that analyzes the mathematical representation of a component surface or group of surfaces. Manufacturable features are also identified by using features that are predefined by the CAD program . The feature identification engine is additionally or alternatively configured to receive commands from the designer to manually define manufacturable features.

The feature identification engine operates differently for different manufacturing processes and therefore operates differently for different manufacturers. For example for components comprising sheet metal typical features include circles squares rectangles ovals circular ended slots rips welds bends rivets weld nuts and standoffs. The list of features will be different for other component types such as machined components molded components cast iron components and baked components. Furthermore even where multiple manufacturers are capable of manufacturing a particular feature using the same manufacturing process the individual manufacturers will still have different quality capabilities such as different capabilities for meeting a particular dimensional tolerance. This is due to different manufacturers using different manufacturing equipment for example. Therefore in an example embodiment the feature identification engine operates recursively identifying component features separately for individual manufacturers.

Referring again to the design system further comprises a process planning engine that is configured to determine a sequence of manufacturing steps used to create the manufacturable features identified by the feature identification engine . The process planning engine uses algorithms stored in a process capabilities database and a heuristic process to determine a preferred manufacturing sequence and optionally a preferred manufacturing technique and or tool. The process capabilities database includes manufacturing capability data as defined by one or more manufacturers using the user interface also illustrated in . In an example embodiment the process capabilities database is automatically updated when a manufacturer provides new manufacturing information using the user interface .

The process planning engine is capable of identifying qualified manufacturers by comparing the manufacturing capabilities used to create a particular feature with the manufacturing capabilities for a specific manufacturer as defined in the process capabilities database . The process planning engine is additionally or optionally configured to receive commands from the designer to manually define the manufacturing sequence technique and or tools. Because the manufacturing sequence is often manufacturer dependent the process planning engine operates recursively in an example embodiment developing preferred processes for different manufacturers individually.

The example design system optionally comprises a machine programming engine that is configured to develop a program usable with a computer controlled manufacturing machine such as a computer controlled mill or lathe. By simulating the developed program the machine programming engine is also capable of calculating the time required to produce a particular component. In certain embodiments the program development and or simulation are performed by a module of the design system that is by the machine programming engine while in other embodiments the program development and or simulation are performed by an external module. The results of the simulation are manufacturer dependent. For example a manufacturer providing a lower cost estimate will generally operate machines at higher speeds thus resulting in greater throughput at the cost of wide tolerances and rougher finishes. Conversely a manufacturer providing a higher cost estimate will generally operate machines at lower speeds thus resulting in tighter tolerances and finer finishes at the cost of lower throughput. Consequently the machine programming engine operates recursively in an example embodiment running separate simulations for different manufacturers.

Still referring to the example design system further comprises a cost estimation engine that is configured to calculate a component cost based on data generated by the process planning engine the machine programming engine and the feature identification engine . The cost estimation engine also relies upon manufacturing information provided via the user interface . Such information includes information relating to the cost of raw materials material cost information stored in database and information associating a cost with the act of performing a particular manufacturing process or manufacturing step process cost information stored in database . For example a cost particular to a manufacture may be associated with a step of cutting a piece sheet metal drilling a hole or folding the sheet metal a determined angle. The process cost information is based on the amount of time a particular machine is used in certain embodiments and is based on the number of components produced in other embodiments. In an example embodiment the databases are automatically updated when a manufacturer provides new or updated manufacturing information using the user interface . The cost estimation engine also optionally considers other costing information related to the manufacture and distribution of a component such as setup costs tooling costs finish work for example plating or painting shipping handling and taxes. In embodiments wherein there exist a plurality of qualified manufacturers the cost estimation engine generates separate cost estimates for the qualified manufacturers individually.

In certain embodiments the design system is configured to check for conditions wherein a particular manufacturing feature or design requirement accounts for a substantial portion of the component cost. Examples of such conditions include use of especially narrow tolerances or especially expensive materials. Where such conditions are detected the designer is provided with a design suggestion to reduce the aggregate component cost. Such conditions are typically referred to as design for manufacturing DFM rules.

Conventionally DFM rules comprise generalized rules for certain manufacturing techniques. For example a sheet metal machining technique is associated with DFM rules relating to non standard tool sizes especially small bend radii especially large bend radii especially small flanges features positioned especially close to an edge especially closely spaced bends and features that require a relief bend or rip. The DFM rules used by certain embodiments of the design system disclosed herein also include manufacturer specific rules and therefore in certain embodiments the design system is configured to apply a specific set of DFM rules for each of the qualified manufacturers. Custom DFM rules for individual manufacturers are stored in the process capabilities database and are optionally derived from data collected using the user interface .

The design system uses the information generated by the cost estimation engine to populate a component cost database . The component cost database includes generated manufacturing information such as component cost estimates and component lead time estimate data. The data in the component cost database is presented to the designer to select a preferred manufacturer for example using the assembly pane the multi feature assembly pane and or the manufacturer pane which are illustrated in B and respectively.

The design system optionally includes an API for programming custom algorithms for generating manufacturing data such as cost estimate data and or lead time data. The API is used to replace or enhance the default algorithms described herein with respect to the feature identification engine the process planning engine the machine programming engine and or the cost estimation engine which contain API functions used to access the relevant databases described herein. Thus the API is also optionally used to create and edit data within the process capabilities database the material cost database and the process cost database . This advantageously allows the functionality of the design system to be expanded to analyze the manufacturability of a broader range of component types.

Still referring to the design system includes an order processing module that is configured to obtain an order confirmation from the selected manufacturer authorize payment from the designer and settle payment to the manufacturer. In an example embodiment secure socket layer SSL transport layer security TLS encryption is used to protect transaction communications from being intercepted. Using public key cryptography and security certificates SSL TLS offers a mechanism for clients and servers to authenticate each other and engage in secure communication. In certain embodiments a third party payment processing service is used to facilitate the process of securely authorizing and settling payment. In such embodiments an API provided by the payment processing service is integrated with the design system .

After the manufacturer is notified of the designer s order and after the manufacturer accepts the order if required the order processing module notifies the designer that the order is confirmed as indicated by dataflow . Thus in embodiments wherein the manufacturer s acceptance is not required a quotation to the design becomes binding upon acceptance and the designer is notified of the order confirmation as soon as the order is transmitted to the manufacturer.

The designer uses user interface to provide payment information to the order processing module as indicated by dataflow . Examples of payment information include bank account information wire transfer information credit card information or information relating to other payment methods accepted by the manufacturer. Upon receiving the payment information the order processing module supplies the payment information to a payment processing service as indicated by dataflow . The payment processing service optionally routes the payment information to a processor such as a credit card processor as indicated by dataflow . The credit card processor or the payment processing service provide payment instructions to the issuing bank and indicated by dataflow . The issuing bank transfers the authorized funds to the acquiring bank as indicated by dataflow . The issuing bank sends a transaction result status such as transaction completed or transaction failed to the payment processing service optionally via the credit card processor as indicated by dataflow and dataflow . The payment processing service then forwards this transaction result status to the order processing module as indicated by dataflow .

After receiving the transaction result status the order processing module notifies the manufacturer that payment has been effected as indicated by dataflow . The manufacturer is provided with another opportunity to reject the transaction for example if the payment transaction failed. The manufacturer s instructions represented by dataflow are returned to the order processing module which then notifies the designer whether the transaction was successfully completed as indicated by dataflow .

The example dataflow illustrated in is modified in certain embodiments. For example in certain embodiments the issuing bank simply authorizes the fund transfer initially and does not transfer the funds until after the manufacturer has been notified of the authorization.

While the foregoing detailed description discloses several embodiments of the present invention it should be understood that this disclosure is illustrative only and is not limiting of the present invention. It should be appreciated that the specific configurations and operations disclosed can differ from those described above and that the methods described herein can be used in contexts other than manufacturing design systems.

