---

title: Handwriting teaching data selection system
abstract: Various technologies and techniques are disclosed that generate a teaching data set for use by a handwriting recognizer. Ink input is received from various ink sources, such as implicit field data, scripted untruthed ink, scripted truth ink, and/or ink from at least one other language in the same script as the target language for the recognizer. The ink input is used with various machine learning methods and/or other algorithmic methods to generate a teaching ink data set. Examples of the various machine learning methods include a character and/or word n-gram distribution leveling method, an allograph method, a subject diversity method, and a print and cursive data selection method. The teaching ink data is used by a handwriting trainer to produce the handwriting recognizer for the target language.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07760946&OS=07760946&RS=07760946
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07760946
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060616
---
Handwriting recognition systems are trained components meaning that their classification techniques use machine learning algorithms that require a representative teaching set of ink samples in order to perform recognitions. A large amount of teaching data must typically be collected in order to generate an accurate recognizer in a particular language. Such data collection can take a large amount of time in order to gather a sufficient quantity of the right type. Furthermore data collection in one language does not scale to additional languages. In other words the data collection process must typically be repeated for each language for which to recognize. For one or more of these reasons the process of creating an accurate handwriting recognizer for one or more languages can be very time consuming and difficult to scale.

Various technologies and techniques are disclosed that generate a teaching data set for use by a handwriting recognizer. Ink input is received from various ink sources such as implicit field data scripted untruthed ink scripted truthed ink and or ink from at least one other language in the same script as the target language for the recognizer. In one implementation the ink input is unevenly distributed among the sources e.g. more or less from one source versus another . The ink input is used with various machine learning methods and or other algorithmic methods to generate a teaching ink data set. A few non limiting examples of the various machine learning methods that can be used include a character and or word n gram distribution leveling method an allograph method a subject diversity method and or a print and cursive data selection method. The teaching ink data is used by a handwriting trainer to produce the handwriting recognizer for the target language.

This Summary was provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications in the described embodiments and any further applications of the principles as described herein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art.

The system may be described in the general context as an application that generates a teaching data set for use by a handwriting recognizer but the system also serves other purposes in addition to these. In one implementation one or more of the techniques described herein can be implemented as features within a handwriting recognition program or from any other type of program or service that produces training sets for use in handwriting recognition programs.

As shown in an exemplary system for producing a training data set for a handwriting recognizer is shown. Ink input is received from a variety of input sources such as client field implicit ink and scripted ink data collection . A non limiting example of scripted ink data collection includes paid on site collection centers with paid and or unpaid ink donors. A non limiting example of client field implicit ink includes ink received over a WAN or other network such as from users who participate in a live ink collection process during their normal use. In one implementation client field implicit ink is stored in ink store . A few non limiting examples of scripted ink data collection includes scripted untruthed e.g. unvalidated ink and scripted human truthed ink that has been truthed e.g. validated by a human reviewer through a human truthing process . In one implementation the scripted ink data collection is gathered during normal field data collection processes.

Non language same script ink data e.g. ink data of a different language but of the same script as the target language is also used as one of the ink inputs. A non limiting example of what constitutes a same script includes languages that have an overlapping set of Unicode points or other points. For example various languages based on the Latin script may be considered to be of the same script and or various languages based on the Cryllic script may be considered to be of the same script. While illustrates storing the various ink inputs in different data stores and respectively it will be appreciated that the various inputs can be stored in a single data store or in other variations for use by and or input to data selection system .

The various ink inputs and are provided to and or retrieved by data selection system . Data selection system performs various machine learning methods and or other algorithmic methods against the ink input to produce a teaching data set that is provided to the trainer for use in handwriting recognition by the handwriting recognizer . A few non limiting examples of the machine learning methods and or other algorithmic methods that can be used to produce the teaching data set include character or word n gram methods allograph letter styles methods subject diversity methods print cursive data selection methods machine truthing and or other data selection methods . Some or all of the features of system will be described in further detail in .

As shown in an exemplary computer system to use for implementing one or more parts of the system includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Additionally device may also have additional features functionality. For example device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Computing device includes one or more communication connections that allow computing device to communicate with other computers applications . Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

In one implementation computing device includes handwriting data selection application which performs some or all of the features of data selection system on and or contains ink store which contains ink stores and or . One implementation in which handwriting data selection application and or ink store are present on computing device is when computing device is used with data selection system by a developer for developing handwriting recognizer . Alternatively or additionally to handwriting data selection application and or ink store client implicit field ink and or handwriting recognizer may be included on computing device . One implementation in which client implicit field ink and or handwriting recognizer are present on computing device is when the machine is used by a customer or client computing device such as after the handwriting recognizer has been developed by the developer using handwriting data selection application on a separate computing device . Handwriting data selection application ink store client implicit field ink and or handwriting recognizer are shown on with dotted lines since one all none or a combination of them may be present on a given computing device depending on the purpose of the device. Handwriting data selection application will now be described in further detail in .

Turning now to with continued reference to a handwriting data selection application operating on computing device is illustrated. Handwriting data selection application is one of the application programs that reside on computing device . However it will be understood that handwriting data selection application can alternatively or additionally be embodied as computer executable instructions on one or more computers and or in different variations than shown on . Alternatively or additionally one or more parts of handwriting data selection application can be part of system memory on other computers and or applications or other such variations as would occur to one in the computer software art.

Handwriting data selection application includes program logic which is responsible for carrying out some or all of the techniques described herein. Program logic includes logic for receiving ink input from a variety of ink sources e.g. implicit field data from client machines scripted untruthed ink scripted truthed ink and or non language ink from one or more other languages of the same script e.g. Latin etc. as a target language for the recognizer logic for using the ink input with various machine learning methods e.g. character and or word n gram distribution leveling allograph letter shape methods subject diversity methods print cursive data selection methods machine truthing methods e.g. similarity dissimilarity measures multiple voting experts etc. and or others and or other algorithmic methods logic for generating a teaching ink data set from using the machine learning methods and or other algorithmic methods and other logic for operating the application . In one implementation program logic is operable to be called programmatically from another program such as using a single call to a procedure in program logic .

Turning now to with continued reference to the stages for implementing one or more implementations of handwriting data selection application are described in further detail. illustrates one implementation of the stages involved in providing a data selection system for generating a teaching ink data set. In one form the process of is at least partially implemented in the operating logic of computing device . The procedure begins at start point with receiving a first set of ink input from a variety of ink sources that are unevenly distributed e.g. implicit field data from client machines scripted untruthed ink scripted truthed ink and or non language ink from one or more other languages stage . The first set of ink input is used with various machine learning methods e.g. character and or word n gram distribution leveling allograph letter shape methods subject diversity methods print cursive data selection methods machine truthing methods e.g. similarity dissimilarity measures multiple voting experts etc. to automatically truth the ink and or others stage . A first teaching ink data set containing the most appropriate set of data is generated from using the machine learning algorithms stage . The first teaching ink data set when utilized by provided to the trainer produces a handwriting recognizer stage .

A second subsequent set of ink input is optionally received at a later time from a variety of input sources e.g. the same and or different from the first ink sources decision point . If and when the second subsequent set of ink input is received decision point the first set of ink input and the second subsequent set of ink input are used with the various machine learning methods and or other algorithmic methods to produce a revised subsequent teaching ink data set to be provided to the trainer e.g one that produces a recognizer with higher accuracy than the first teaching ink data set stage . By providing a data selection system that selects the appropriate training data from the unevenly distributed ink data the system allows handwriting recognizers to scale to additional languages with limited initial ink input while improving recognition with each release of the recognizer as more data collected stage . The process loops back to stage since later iterations of the teaching ink data set can be produced over time. If no additional ink input is ever received however decision point then the process ends at end point .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. All equivalents changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the implementations as described herein and or by the following claims are desired to be protected.

For example a person of ordinary skill in the computer software art will recognize that the client and or server arrangements user interface screen content and or data layouts as described in the examples discussed herein could be organized differently on one or more computers to include fewer or additional options or features than as portrayed in the examples.

