---

title: Methods and apparatus for interactive searching techniques
abstract: Methods and systems for searching comprise presenting a first information set to a user, receiving feedback, applying an evolutionary algorithm based on the feedback to generate a search query, causing the search query to be executed to generate a second information set, and presenting the second information set to the user. Then, in response to user input, the first information set is again presented to the user; feedback is again received, an evolutionary algorithm is again applied based on the feedback to generate a search query, and the new search query is caused to be executed to generate a third information set which is presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07707220&OS=07707220&RS=07707220
owner: Icosystem Corporation
number: 07707220
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
The present application incorporates by reference the commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 176 968 filed on Jul. 6 2005 entitled Method and Apparatus for Interactive Searching U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 585 807 filed on Jul. 6 2004 entitled Methods and Systems for Interactive Searching and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 721 637 filed on Sep. 29 2005 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Interactive Searching Techniques. 

The disclosed methods and apparatus systems relate generally to searching for information from a database or other collection of materials.

Search engines may assist a user in identifying information that may be stored on a computer server or other information storage media. Generally the information may be stored in the form of an entry or entries in a database e.g. any structured database any database of objects with tags or descriptors . The information may include for example various web page content photographs goods or services for sale or any other item that can be represented and stored in electronic format. Some examples of commonly used search engines include but are not limited to Yahoo MSN Google amazon.com a9.com AOL Lycos LookSmart Altavista Ask Jeeves Orbitz Travelocity expedia.com and flickr .

Search engines typically require the user to enter one or a plurality of keywords and in some cases to specify one or a plurality of Boolean operators to determine the logical relationship between the pluralities of keywords. This provision of one or more keywords and or optional Boolean operators is referred to as the search query. A search engine may execute one or more algorithms which may act on the search query to identify one or a plurality of items of information that may satisfy the search query this information is commonly referred to as search results . The search engine generally returns the results of the search algorithm by presenting them to the user through some form of a user interface e.g. display . In some instances when a plurality of search results is available the search engine may further determine which specific results to present to the user according to some criteria e.g. ranking optimization . The user typically is then able to select one or a plurality of search results. If none of the results is satisfactory or if additional results are sought the user can select to view additional results or the user can refine or modify the search query for example by adding or removing one or more keywords and or optional Boolean operators.

In addition to conventional search engines which may execute various proprietary algorithms to process search queries and provide results according to some type of ranking or optimization process a search query may be executed by a web directory service. Unlike a search engine a web directory service that is capable of processing a search query typically returns to the user lists and categories of web sites as search results without necessarily ranking promoting or optimizing the list of web sites. One example of a web directory service includes the Open Directory Project hosted and administered by Netscape Communication Corporation.

One embodiment of a search method and system comprises A causing a first information set to be generated comprising a first plurality of items wherein each item of the first plurality of items is associated with at least one characteristic B representing at least some of the first information set in a first presentation C receiving a first feedback based upon the first presentation from a user D applying an evolutionary algorithm to generate a first search query wherein the evolutionary algorithm is based on the first feedback E causing the first search query to be executed to generate a second information set comprising a second plurality of items wherein each item of the second plurality of items is associated with at least one characteristic F representing at least some of the second information set in a second presentation G in response to a user input repeating step B and representing at least some of the first information set in the first presentation H receiving a second feedback based upon the second presentation from a user I applying an evolutionary algorithm to generate a second search query wherein the evolutionary algorithm is based on the second feedback J causing the second search query to be executed to generate a third information set comprising a third plurality of items wherein each item of the third plurality of items is associated with at least one characteristic and K representing at least some of the third information set in a third presentation.

In some embodiments the first feedback comprises a subjective value for at least one item of the first plurality of items a subjective ranking for at least one item of the first plurality of items a selection of at least one item of the first plurality of items or a rejection of at least one item of the first plurality of items. In some embodiments the subjective value was selected from a range of possible subjective values. In some embodiments the first feedback comprises subjective values for at least two items of the first plurality of items and the evolutionary algorithm generating the first search query is based on at least the said subjective values.

In some embodiments the first information set the second information set and the third information set each comprise a plurality of images or diagrams. In some embodiments at least some of the first information set is displayed graphically as a grid of images and or diagrams in the first presentation at least some of the second information set is displayed graphically as a grid of images and or diagrams in the second presentation and at least some of the third information set is displayed graphically as a grid of images and or diagrams in the third presentation.

In some embodiments the first plurality of items comprises a plurality of goods for purchase and or a plurality of services for purchase.

In some embodiments the first search query and the second search query each are executed by a search engine. In some embodiments the search engine is independently provided. In some embodiments the first search query and the second search query each are executed by a web directory service. In some embodiments the web directory service is independently provided.

In some embodiments the at least one characteristic associated with at least one item of at least one plurality of items comprises a descriptor made available by a search engine or web directory service. In some embodiments the at least one characteristic associated with at least one item of at least one plurality of items comprises a tag. In some embodiments the tag comprises at least one of a keyword a comment a URL link and XML information. In some embodiments the at least one characteristic associated with at least one item of at least one plurality of items comprises a keyword a classification oriented identifier a categorization oriented identifier or a semantic web oriented identifier. In some embodiments the at least one characteristic associated with at least one item of at least one plurality of items comprises a taxonomy related identifier an ontology related identifier or a folksonomy related identifier.

In some embodiments the evolutionary algorithm includes at least one of the following genetic operators a selection operator a mutation operator a recombination operator a crossover operator a directed operator a constraint operator or a preservation operator. In some embodiments the evolutionary algorithm comprises a mutation operator configured to delete at least one gene of a genetic string and or to add at least one random gene to a genetic string and wherein applying the evolutionary algorithm to generate a first search query comprises applying the mutation operator to a genetic string associated with at least one item of the first plurality of items to generate the first search query. In some embodiments the evolutionary algorithm comprises a crossover operator configured to combine genes of two genetic strings to produce at least one offspring and a mutation operator configured to delete at least one gene of a genetic string and or add at least one random gene to a genetic string and applying the evolutionary algorithm to generate a first search query comprises applying the crossover operator to genetic strings respectively associated with at least two items of the first plurality of items to generate at least one offspring and applying the mutation operator to at least one genetic string associated with at least one of the at least two items of the first plurality of items or to at least one offspring.

Some embodiments further comprise receiving from the user modifications of at least one of the first search query and the second search query prior to causing the said search query to be executed.

Some embodiments further comprise L receiving from the user a selection of a first desired item from one of the plurality of items M receiving from the user a selection of a second desired item from another of the plurality of items and O generating a fourth search query based on the first desired item and the second desired item.

Some embodiments further comprise the first desired item from the presentation in which it was represented having been dragged into the presentation in which the second desired item was represented and having been dropped onto the said second desired item.

In some embodiments generating a fourth search query based on the first desired item and the second desired item comprises applying an evolutionary algorithm to a genetic string associated with the first desired item and a genetic string associated with the second desired item.

In some embodiments causing a first information set comprising a first plurality of items to be generated comprises causing at least a portion of the first information set to be generated randomly. In some embodiments causing a first information set comprising a first plurality of items to be generated comprises causing a search query to be executed

Another embodiment of a search method and system comprises A causing a first search query to be executed to generate a first information set comprising a first plurality of items wherein each item of the first plurality of items is associated with at least one characteristic B representing at least some of the first information set in a first presentation C causing a second search query to be executed to generate a second information set comprising a second plurality of items wherein each item of the second plurality of items is associated with at least one characteristic D representing at least some of the second information set in a second presentation E receiving from a user a selection of a first desired item from the first plurality items F receiving from a user a selection of a second desired item from the second plurality of items and G generating a third search query based on the combination of the first desired item and the second desired item.

Some embodiments further comprise the first desired item having been dragged from the first presentation into the second presentation and dropped onto the second desired item in the second presentation.

In some embodiments generating a third search query based on the first desired item and the second desired item comprises applying an evolutionary algorithm to a genetic string associated with the first desired item and a genetic string associated with the second desired item.

In some embodiments the first search query and the second search query each are executed by a search engine. In some embodiments the first search query and the second search query each are executed by a web directory service.

In some embodiments the first plurality of items and the second plurality of items comprise a plurality of goods for purchase and or a plurality of services for purchase.

In some embodiments the first information set and the second information set each comprise a plurality of images or diagrams. In some embodiments at least some of the first information set is displayed graphically as a grid of images and or diagrams in the first presentation and at least some of the second information set is displayed graphically as a grid of images and or diagrams in the second presentation.

In some embodiments the at least one characteristic associated with at least one item of at least one plurality of items comprises a descriptor made available by a search engine or web directory service. In some embodiments the at least one characteristic associated with at least one item of at least one plurality of items comprises a tag.

In some embodiments the evolutionary algorithm comprises a crossover operator configured to combine genes of two genetic strings to produce at least one offspring and a mutation operator configured to delete at least one gene of a genetic string and or add at least one random gene to a genetic string and applying the evolutionary algorithm to generate a third search query comprises applying the crossover operator to genetic strings respectively associated with the first desired item and the second desired item to generate at least one offspring and applying the mutation operator to at least one of the genetic string associated with the first desired item the genetic string associated with the second desired item and the genetic string associated with the at least one offspring.

Another embodiment of a search method and system comprises A causing a first search query to be executed to generate a first information set comprising a first plurality of items wherein each item of the first plurality of items is associated with at least one characteristic B representing at least some of the first information set in a first presentation C in response to a user input saving at least one item of the first plurality of items in a location specified by the user D causing a second search query to be executed to generate a second information set comprising a second plurality of items wherein each item of the second plurality of items is associated with at least one characteristic E representing at least some of the second information set in a second presentation F in response to a user input retrieving at least one saved item of the first plurality of items and G generating a third search query based on a combination of the at least one saved item of the first plurality of items and at least one of the second plurality of items.

Some embodiments further comprise the at least one saved item having been dragged from the first presentation into the specified location and dropped onto the specified location.

In some embodiments generating a third search query based on the at least one saved item and at least one of the second plurality of items comprises applying an evolutionary algorithm to a genetic string associated with the at least one saved item and a genetic string associated with at least one of the second plurality of items. In some embodiments the evolutionary algorithm comprises a cross over operator configured to combine genes of two genetic strings to produce at least one offspring and a mutation operator configured to delete at least one gene of a genetic string and or add at least one random gene to a genetic string and wherein applying the evolutionary algorithm to generate a third search query comprises applying the crossover operator to genetic strings respectively associated with the at least one saved item and at least one of the second plurality of items to generate at least one offspring and applying the mutation operator to at least one of the genetic string associated with the at least one saved item the genetic string associated with at least one of the second plurality of items and the genetic string associated with the at least one offspring.

In some embodiments the first search query the second search query and the third search query each are executed by a search engine. In some embodiments the first search query the second search query and the third search query each are executed by a web directory service.

In some embodiments the first plurality of items and the second plurality of items comprise a plurality of goods for purchase and or a plurality of services for purchase.

In some embodiments the first information set and the second information set each comprise a plurality of images or diagrams. In some embodiments at least some of the first information set is displayed graphically as a grid of images and or diagrams in the first presentation and at least some of the second information set is displayed graphically as a grid of images and or diagrams in the second presentation.

In some embodiments the at least one characteristic associated with at least one item of at least one plurality of items comprises a descriptor made available by a search engine or web directory service. In some embodiments the at least one characteristic associated with at least one item of at least one plurality of items comprises a tag.

To provide an overall understanding certain illustrative embodiments will now be described however it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the apparatus and methods described herein can be adapted and modified to provide apparatus and methods for other suitable applications and that other additions and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the systems and methods described herein.

Unless otherwise specified the illustrated embodiments can be understood as providing exemplary features of varying detail of certain embodiments. Therefore unless otherwise specified features components modules and or aspects of the illustrations can be otherwise combined separated interchanged and or rearranged without departing from the disclosed systems or methods.

Interactive search is a way of presenting information to a user and letting the user provide feedback to improve the quality of the search until a desirable item is found. Interactive search differs fundamentally from other search methods in that it is geared toward searches in which the user does not exactly know what he is looking for or when a normal search may return a vast number of items. In both of these circumstances Applicants have recognized and appreciated that identifying the specific item s of interest to the user may be facilitated by an evaluation of the user s subjective preferences.

One exemplary embodiment of the disclosed methods and apparatus is described in overview in . In this embodiment a user wishes to purchase a gift but does not have a specific gift in mind. The user may employ a computer including a display a selection device e.g. a keyboard or a mouse and one or more processors to initiate a search query via a search component e.g. a search engine or web directory service which then presents to the user information regarding gift items pursuant to the search query. In one aspect since it is assumed the user does not have specific gift criteria in mind the initial search query may indeed by quite crude or vague e.g. the query might be based on the gender and or age of the person for whom the gift it intended . Alternatively the information regarding potential gift items may be generated randomly for example from a merchant s database and or the information may be selected. The user then employs an interactive search process as discussed in greater detail below to actively evaluate her search options in accordance with her subjective preferences. She continues using the interactive search process until she finds a desired gift item.

It should be appreciated that although the exemplary process depicted in illustrates the selection of a gift virtually any type of item identified in some manner in a searchable database may be searched for by the user in a similar interactive manner according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.

In the embodiment illustrated in the interactive search process begins in block by displaying search results to the user shown in . In one aspect of this embodiment the search results may be randomly generated. In other aspects a search component may execute a previous search query to generate the search results. Examples of such search components include but are not limited to Yahoo MSN Google amazon.com a9.com AOL Lycos LookSmart Altavista Ask Jeeves Orbitz Travelocity expedia.com flickr and the Open Directory Project.

In another embodiment not specifically depicted in an interactive search process may more generally provide information relating to initial search results by representing all or a portion of the information as any one of a number of perceivable indications to the user . For example all or a portion of the information relating to the search results may be provided as one or more audible or visible indications. With respect to visual indications as indicated in block of all or a portion of the information may be displayed textually and or graphically including graphic displays of a plurality of images or diagrams representing respective items of information e.g. individual items in the search results . In one exemplary implementation discussed further below respective items in the search results may be graphically displayed to the user as a two dimensional grid of images or diagrams representing the items.

In block of the user decides whether the initial search results provided in block contain desired information e.g. a desired item in the search results . If so the user can opt to end the process. Otherwise the user may continue the process in block .

In block of the user is permitted to evaluate the search results to provide feedback. In one exemplary implementation the user may evaluate the search results for example by utilizing a mouse keyboard or other selection device in combination with evaluation options presented to the user via a computer display. In one aspect the user feedback may include assigning a degree of randomness based on evaluating a plurality of items in the search results for generating a new search query according to subsequent acts in the process detailed below. In another aspect the user feedback may include assigning a subjective value also referred to as a fitness measure or weight or grade or rank to one or more items in the search results. In one exemplary implementation one or more subjective values assigned by the user may be represented in some fashion on the display in coordination with a representation of an item to which the subjective value is assigned. For example in one embodiment items of the search results may be graphically displayed as a two dimensional grid of images or diagrams and subjective values assigned to different item may be respectively represented in some fashion on the grid of images or diagrams.

In other aspects the user may select a subjective value from at least two or more possible subjective values to indicate the relative desirability of a given item in the search results. For example by merely selecting highlighting a given item the user may indicate that item s desirability. Non selected non highlighted items may then be considered as undesirable. In another aspect the user may assign a positive value to desirable items a negative value to undesirable items and one or more items not particularly addressed by the user may be assigned a neutral value. In yet another aspect the user may assign a subjective value for a given item from within a range of possible values between some minimum value and some maximum value e.g. a degree of fitness weight grade or rank . In yet another aspect a subjective value for one or more items may be assigned based on a user s response time to comment on a given item. The forgoing examples are provided primarily for purposes of illustration and are not intended as limiting. Additionally as discussed above various options for assigning a subjective value to one or more items in the search results may be facilitated via the use of a computer display and or selection device e.g. keyboard mouse .

In block of the interactive search process illustrated in the user may be given the option to modify e.g. add delete alter one or more characteristics associated with the search results. In one embodiment each item in the search results may be associated with one or more characteristics. In one aspect one or more characteristics associated with each item may include any descriptor for the item made available via a given search component s application program interface API . Examples of such characteristics associated with a given item in the search results may include but are not limited to one or more tags which may include one or more keywords comments URL links and or XML information one or more classification oriented identifiers one or more categorization oriented identifiers and one or more semantic web based identifiers. More specifically one or more characteristics associated with a given item may include one or more taxonomy related identifiers for the item one or more ontology related identifiers and or one or more folksonomy related identifiers e.g. people who bought book X also bought book Y the terms taxonomy ontology and folksonomy are intended to have the respective meanings that would be readily associated with them by one of ordinary skill in the relevant arts .

In block of the process may optionally compare the present feedback provided by the user to previous feedback provided by the user assuming that the interactive search process shown in has completed at least one loop of iteration. By optionally memorizing previous feedback the process may employ adaptive learning techniques e.g. trend analysis to ultimately shape the generation of a new search query. In one aspect of an implementation employing such adaptive learning techniques one or more subjective values assigned by the user to one or more corresponding items in the search results may be modified prior to further processing e.g. averaging subjective values from feedback gathered over multiple iterations weighted averaging of subjective values etc. .

In block of the process shown in one or more evolutionary algorithms are performed based on the immediate user feedback e.g. one or more subjective values assigned in block or cumulative feedback provided by block . Again the subjective value s constituting the user feedback may be viewed in terms of assigning a fitness measure or desirability in connection with one or more items in the initial search results.

In one embodiment to facilitate the execution of one or more evolutionary algorithms in block one or more characteristics associated with each item or one or more characteristics that have been modified by a user as discussed above in connection with block are encoded as one or more genes in a genetic string associated with each item. Hence each item in the search results may be associated with a corresponding genetic string that includes one or more genes wherein each gene represents a characteristic of the item e.g. a tag keyword comment identifier descriptor attribute etc. as discussed above .

In block once one or more such genetic strings are assembled the evolutionary algorithm including one or more genetic operators is then applied to the one or more genetic strings associated with one or more items. Genetic strings are considered in the evolutionary algorithm based on their corresponding fitness i.e. the user feedback subjective value assigned to the one or more items with which the strings are associated to generate a new search query in block .

In various aspects the genetic operators applied by an evolutionary algorithm in block may include but are not limited to a selection operator a mutation operator a recombination operator a crossover operator a directed operator a constraint operator and a preservation elitism operator. For purposes of the present disclosure and as would be readily understood by one of ordinary skill in the relevant arts an evolutionary algorithm also referred to as a genetic algorithm or program generally is concerned with three possible factors namely 1 a population of one or more parents that may be randomly initialized e.g. in the process a parent may be considered as a genetic string associated with a given item in the search results 2 one or more mutation operators capable of altering at least one parent to a neighboring solution this process also may be referred to as a local search operator and 3 a recombination operator which can recombine genetic strings of two parents into a child that inherits traits from both parents this process also may be referred to as a global search operator .

In connection with evolutionary algorithms as applied herein an exemplary mutation operation may be generally understood to potentially introduce randomness to the process as a mutation operator may be configured to delete one or more genes of a given genetic string or add one or more random genes to a given genetic string. Exemplary recombination operations can include reproduction mutation preservation e.g. elitism and or crossover where crossover can be understood to be the combination of two individuals the parents to produce one or more offspring the children i.e. a crossover operator may be configured to combine genes of at least two given genetic strings to produce one or more offspring . Those of ordinary skill will recognize that a crossover operator may include asexual crossover and or single child crossover. Accordingly crossover can be more generally understood to provide genetic material from a previous generation to a subsequent generation. In one exemplary evolutionary algorithm that may be employed in an implementation of the process shown in at least one crossover operator is applied to at least two genetic strings respectively associated with two items in the search results to generate an offspring and at least one mutation operator is subsequently applied to the offspring to generate a new search query.

Variations of evolutionary algorithms and different genetic operators used in various combinations several of which are suitable for the process shown in are well known in the art. Accordingly the examples presented herein are discussed primarily for purposes of illustration and are not intended as limiting. In some exemplary implementations one or more evolutionary algorithms are designed a priori to act on one or more genetic strings and may not be altered by the user. In other implementations the user may be provided with the capability to design their own evolutionary algorithm by selecting one or more genetic operators to apply to one or more genetic strings input to the algorithm as well as an execution sequence for multiple genetic operators. The user s interaction with the process then may include evaluation of fitness for a particular item modification of one or more of an item s characteristics genes and evolutionary algorithm design.

As discussed above in block of a new search query is generated by one or more evolutionary algorithms. As indicated in block in one exemplary implementation the user optionally may be allowed to modify the new search query to introduce a new theme e.g. one or more new search terms not present in the generated search query. In one aspect of this implementation the new search query generated by the one or more evolutionary algorithms would be displayed to the user e.g. via a computer display for modification.

In block of the process outlined in the new search query generated in block or a user modified new search query optionally provided in block is executed by a search component e.g. search engine or web directory service and new search results are generated in block . In one exemplary implementation the same search component that was employed to initially generate search results in block is again employed to execute a search query in block . In one aspect the new search query or user modified new search query may be passed to the search component via the search component s application programming interface API .

Once new search results are generated in block block indicates that the user optionally may define a filter that is applied to the newly generated results. For example in one exemplary implementation the user may define one or more constraints e.g. provide only those results that cost less than 100 provide only green items provide only 10 items to selectively filter out possibly undesirable results from the newly generated results.

As indicated in the unfiltered results generated in block or the optionally filtered results generated in block are then displayed in block as the process returns to the beginning for another iteration. For example the user may subsequently evaluate the newly generated unfiltered or filtered search results in block to provide new feedback and optionally modify one or more characteristics genes associated with a given item in the new search results as indicated in block . Furthermore now that at least one iteration of the process has been completed the adaptive learning or trend analysis feature indicated in block may be utilized based on comparing present user feedback to previous user feedback and one or more evolutionary algorithms again may be performed in block based on present immediate or cumulative feedback and modified or unmodified genes associated with the new search results.

With reference again to the interactive search process discussed above in connection with may in one embodiment be implemented with the aid of a conventional computer e.g. a personal computer laptop etc. that includes a display configured to convey information e.g. search results to the user one or more selection devices e.g. a keyboard and or mouse configured to permit the user to interact with the process e.g. evaluate the search results modify genes define filters or constraints and one or more processors configured to implement various steps or acts of the interactive search process .

In one exemplary implementation the computer includes a computer readable medium e.g. various types of memory compact disk floppy disk etc. having computer readable signals stored thereon that define instructions which as a result of being executed by the one or more processors of the computer instruct the computer to perform various steps or acts of the interactive search process . In another implementation the interactive search process is configured to sit on top of a conventional search component invoked by the user of the computer by obtaining one or more characteristics or genes associated with a given item of information via the search component s API and providing new search queries to the search component via its API.

According to various embodiments the user may interact with the search process via a number of possible techniques involving the display and one or more selection devices . For example as discussed above information representing search results may be displayed on the display in a variety of textual and or graphical e.g. iconic formats. The user may utilize one or both of the display and one or more of the selection devices to click on select highlight various items of displayed information to provide some type of user feedback e.g. assignment of subjective value to an item .

In one exemplary embodiment in which respective items of information are represented as images or diagrams surrounded by a border a user may click on an item to change its evaluation between neutral e.g. no border positive e.g. grey or some other color border or negative e.g. crossed out . In another embodiment the user may obtain additional information about a particular item e.g. characteristics or genes associated with the item by letting a cursor hover over the image or diagram corresponding to the item or right clicking over the image or diagram corresponding to the item for example. In yet another embodiment an image or diagram corresponding to one or more items may be associated with a small slider entry box or pull down drop down box etc. displayed near or over the image or diagram. In the example of a slider the user may adjust the slider with one of the selection devices to assign a subjective value to the item within a range of values from some minimum value to some maximum value represented on the slider. In the example of an entry box or pull down drop down box the user may manually enter a value from the keyboard or select a value from amongst multiple possibilities conveyed by a menu. In yet another embodiment the user may select a degree of randomness in generating new search queries through a slider representing two extremes labeled Guide Me and Surprise Me corresponding respectively to low and high degrees of randomness. It should be appreciated that the foregoing examples are provided primarily for purposes of illustration and that various embodiments of the present disclosure are not necessarily limited in these respects.

Yet another exemplary embodiment implementing various concepts according to the present disclosure includes a web based system that enables the user to select a venue for a vacation. When looking for a vacation most Internet bases search engines such as Orbitz Travelocity and expedia.com can offer information about specific hotels resorts etc. but require the user to have a clear idea of e.g. to specify a destination. In many cases a person looking for a vacation destination may only have an approximate idea of a destination time e.g. I want to spend one week in January someplace warm with my husband and two children. With existing travel sites the user has to select a geographical area and look through a list of possible venues e.g. selected on the basis of price range to identify one with the desired characteristics. However the user may initially have no idea of which particular geographical locations are satisfactory and even if s he has an idea of the geographical area e.g. the Caribbean s he may not know which specific locations and which venues at that location satisfy her his constraints.

Some online vacation sites allow a user to specify a number of criteria in a sequential fashion for instance by starting with a specific location then selecting price range activity types etc. however in this way the search is narrowed unnecessarily and may cause a user to overlook some potentially suitable alternatives. For example if a user begins by selecting the Caribbean s he may eventually identify a resort in Cancun but there may have been other venues e.g. Canary Islands which have similar and perhaps more desirable characteristics where such other venues which were not presented to the user after the initial decision.

In view of the foregoing in one embodiment the user is presented with a grid of images each image being a picture representing one venue. Below each image may be a row of icons representing key characteristics of the property such as cost style single couple family . . . geographical location etc. A second row below the image can include simple iconographic buttons that allow the user to obtain additional information in a pop up window e.g. view additional photos read client reviews determine availability to provide evaluative feedback about the property this can be as simple as a thumbs up thumbs down pair or a slider to save this property to a folder representing the user s current selection portfolio and or to actually make a reservation at this property.

In one aspect of this embodiment the display below the entire grid of images may include one or more buttons and sliders including a button to generate a refined set of properties based on the user s feedback a button to start with a fresh random set of properties a slider labeled with the extreme values Surprise me and Guide me which determine the level of randomness of the search as described for the previous embodiment a button that brings the user to her current portfolio of selections and navigation buttons to trace backwards and forward through the selections made during a given search session.

In other aspects of this embodiment an additional set of buttons pull down menus radio buttons and or text entry boxes can be included. Through these various devices the user can specify a filter i.e. one or more constraints that apply to all searched properties. For instance if the user wants only family oriented resorts by the sea s he can specify these criteria to ensure that inappropriate properties are not selected during search.

Based on her personal preferences the user selects Frame A and Frame F as depicted by the striped frames . One or more evolutionary algorithms of the interactive search process utilize the genes e.g. tags associated with the items in Frame A and Frame F and feed a new search query based mutations and recombinations of the genes into the Amazon search engine. The search engine generates a new population of search results which presents CD options that combine implicit properties of Frame A and Frame F . For example the new population in FIG. includes more musical selections by Andrew Lloyd Webber the composer of the musical namely Phantom of the Opera in Frame F .

As shown in if the user so desires she may right click on Frame C and bring up a search box . The search box allows the user to introduce a new theme to the search. In the illustrated embodiment the user enters the new theme Chicago and then clicks an OK button . A search based on the query Chicago is conducted for Frame C and will be displayed on within Frame C .

According to one aspect the embodiment illustrated in may employ two distinct modes of evolution Hill Climbing HC and Mutation and Crossover MC . In the HC mode the user selects only one item displayed and the search consists of mutating one or more of the item s genes. Mutation consists of deleting part of the genetic string adding one or more random genes to the genetic string or replacing part of the genetic string. HC is used to fine tune the search. In the MC mode the user can select several displayed items and crossover is applied to those items by combining genes of the items respective genetic strings. The resulting offspring genetic string is then mutated. A new search query based on the foregoing is then fed into the Amazon search engine which in turn generates new search results. All or a subset of the new search results is displayed to the user.

The embodiment illustrated in was implemented by using Amazon s APIs to interface with their search engine. However a person skilled in the art would know that the described methods and apparatus may be applied to any existing search engine with an interface such as Yahoo 

A non volatile memory storage device such as an internal hard disk or semiconductor memory device is associated with each search query so that the user is able to return to previous generations for a search display by clicking on a Back button or retrieving button or other similar method known to persons of skill in the art.

In addition the user may use a drag drop technique in the search process and to combine desired features or results from two forks of the search process. In the drag drop technique the user selects a first desired item from the first display and a second desired item from the second display . Both desired items contain characteristics desired by the user. In the present example the first desired item contains a facial expression with a big smile desired by the user and the second desired item contains a facial expression with big eyes desired by the user . As shown in the user clicks and drags the first desired item over to the second display . Holding the first desired item over the second desired item the user releases or drops the first desired item over the second desired item . As shown in the characteristics of the first desired item combine with the characteristics of the second desired item to generate a third display . The third display provides various facial expressions having some combination of the two desired items . In fact a third desired item contains both of the two desired characteristics a big smile and big eyes. Of course the user may desire to combine more than one characteristic of one or both of the desired items and the search process may continue based upon the displayed results or may terminate.

In addition the user may use a goody bag technique in the search process to save a potentially desired item from a display window displaying the results of a search iteration for possible later use. In this technique the user may use a drag drop technique to place the potentially desired item in a location where it will be saved for possible further use or may take some other indicated action to indicate that a particular item should be saved. If items have been saved in the goody bag then at a later time during the search process or even on a later occasion such as but not limited to during another search process the user may retrieve an item from a goody bag again using a drag drop or other technique and either place it back into a search display to be considered in a further iteration or take some other action with respect to it such as purchasing the item if the search involved a search for a gift for example . More than one goody bag may be created or utilized to save items for different potential later uses. In addition the goody bag technique may be used to store and retrieve other results from interactive evolutionary computing applications in contexts other than database searches. As one example the technique may be used in conjunction with the digital imaging application described below to save potentially interesting interim results for potential later retrieval. Numerous other applications also will be apparent.

The disclosed methods and systems can additionally be used to identify a set of parameters or characteristics rather than selecting one item out of an existing set of items. Consider for example the process of modifying a digital image. Programs such as PhotoShop or Paint Shop Pro provide the user with a large set of filters that alter the content of the image. For example there are filters that can change contrast brightness tint saturation and color balance. There are also many filters that apply artistic or geometric effects such as emboss charcoal paintbrush leather kaleidoscope warp solarize mosaic etc. Each of these filters typically is associated with one or more parameters that modify the extent or nature of the filter. For instance shows an original digital picture using Paint Shop Pro v.7 to apply some artistic filters to the image. Paint Shop Pro v.7 includes over 80 different filters and many more third party filters with the ability to create user defined filters. Of the 80 or so standard filters most have multiple parameters that determine the strength and quality of the effect being applied. For instance the Rough Leather effect is controlled by seven parameters leather color angle luminance contrast sharpness blur and light color. Each parameter admits many different values if the colors are quantized to 16 bits 256 possible colors the following number of settings for each parameter are achieved leather color 256 angle 360 luminance 512 contrast 100 sharpness 100 blur 100 and light color 256 . Accordingly there are about 10possible combinations. Even if it is assumed that each parameter is only quantized to 16 values 4 bits there are nearly 300 million combinations. Clearly even if the user has decided to apply a single filter it is impracticable to try even a small fraction of the possible variants of that filter. The complexity of the search grows exponentially if the user wants to apply multiple filters in sequence.

Accordingly the problem of selecting filters and parameters can be understood to be a search problem that requires an understanding of the user s subjective evaluation and that has a potentially vast set of results as provided herein.

Another embodiment of the disclosed methods and systems presents the user with a grid of images. Images in the grid are generated by applying a randomly chosen effect filter with a random set of parameters. A separate panel shows the original image for comparison. Each image in the grid is associated with a set of buttons and sliders that enable to user to provide feedback on his her subjective evaluation of that image a button that allows the user to manually adjust parameters using the current image as a starting point and or a button interface that allows the user to save the image to a folder.

Below the entire grid of images the example embodiment includes buttons and sliders including a button to generate a new set of images based on the user s feedback a button to start with a fresh random set of images a slider which determines the level of randomness of the search as described for previous embodiments and navigation buttons to trace backwards and forward through the selections made during a given search session.

In additional embodiments the items being searched might include any of the following homes automobiles financial instruments such as stocks or bonds service providers legal documents scientific articles art images web pages recruitment candidates potential employers etc. with such examples provided for illustration and not limitation. In the context of selecting parameters as was shown in the embodiment for selecting parameters for image effect filters additional embodiments can be envisioned for design of mechanical systems architectural elements artistic designs etc. The above are meant as partial lists as various embodiments can be applied to any search in which the results come from a potentially vast set of choices.

As used herein a user interface is an interface between a human user and a computer that enables communication between the user and the computer. A user interface may include an auditory indicator such as a speaker and or a graphical user interface GUI including one or more displays. A user interface also may include one or more selection devices including a mouse a keyboard a keypad a track ball a microphone a touch screen a game controller e.g. a joystick etc. or any combinations thereof

As used herein an application programming interface or API is a set of one or more computer readable instructions that provide access to one or more other sets of computer readable instructions that define functions so that such functions can be configured to be executed on a computer in conjunction with an application program in some instances to communicate various data parameters and general information between two programs.

The various methods acts thereof and various embodiments and variations of these methods and acts individually or in combination may be defined by computer readable signals tangibly embodied on one or more computer readable media for example non volatile recording media integrated circuit memory elements or a combination thereof Such signals may define instructions for example as part of one or more programs that as a result of being executed by a computer instruct the computer to perform one or more of the methods or acts described herein and or various embodiments variations and combination thereof Such instructions may be written in any of a plurality of programming languages or using any of a plurality of programming techniques.

For example various methods according to the present disclosure may be programmed using an object oriented programming language. Alternatively functional scripting and or logical programming languages may be used. Various aspects of the disclosure may be implemented in a non programmed environment e.g. documents created in HTML XML or other format that when viewed in a window of a browser program render aspects of a graphical user interface GUI or perform other functions . Various aspects of the disclosure may be implemented as programmed or nonprogrammed elements or combinations thereof

A given computer readable medium may be transportable such that the instructions stored thereon can be loaded onto any computer system resource to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. In addition it should be appreciated that the instructions stored on the computer readable medium are not limited to instructions embodied as part of an application program running on a host computer. Rather the instructions may be embodied as any type of computer code e.g. software or microcode that can be employed to program a processor to implement various aspects of the present disclosure.

Having thus described several illustrative embodiments it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. While some examples presented herein involve specific combinations of functions or structural elements it should be understood that those functions and elements may be combined in other ways according to the present disclosure to accomplish the same or different objectives. In particular acts elements and features discussed in connection with one embodiment are not intended to be excluded from similar or other roles in other embodiments. Accordingly the foregoing description and attached drawings are by way of example only and are not intended to be limiting.

