---

title: Apparatus and methods for service programming of a wireless device on a wireless communications network
abstract: Apparatus, methods, and programs for servicing persistent storage items on a wireless device. Embodiments include a wireless device having a computer platform with a module operable to retrieve and/or change persistent storage items on the wireless device based on a received configuration. The wireless device may further include an access module operable to either permit or deny access to persistent storage items based on information associated with the configuration. The embodiments may also include an apparatus operable to receive information relating to the activity performed with respect to the persistent storage items and to generate a corresponding report.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07925715&OS=07925715&RS=07925715
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07925715
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060306
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 661 782 entitled Method And Apparatus For Providing Service Parameters For Wire less Devices filed Mar. 14 2005 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosed embodiments relate to wireless devices and wireless communication networks and more particularly to apparatus and methods for remote service programming of a wireless device on a wireless network.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network.

The operation of these wireless devices depends on many settings and profiles retained within persistent storage referred to herein as persistent storage PS items. Persistent storage items comprise data that remains in a memory on the wireless device for each time the wireless device is started or re started. Persistent storage items may be stored in many different locations on a wireless device e.g. read only memory flash memory subscriber identity module SIM universal subscriber identity module U SIM a file system a remote file system etc. or even at a network device located across the wireless network where the persistent storage items would be accessible to the wireless device. Some examples of these persistent storage items are network preferred roaming list transmission strength a user s telephone book and mobile directory number.

Many groups need to retrieve or change the values of persistent storage data e.g. the users of the wireless devices the network service providers the wireless device manufacturers and the developers of software applications for the wireless devices.

Currently manufacturers of wireless devices often write their own applications for changing the persistent storage data. This can be expensive and often the manufacturers write their applications with different user interfaces which can make it difficult for the various groups of people that need to retrieve or change persistent storage items to learn the various user interfaces that the manufacturers write. Further often the applications written by the manufacturers require being run on a separate computer device that is directly connected to the wireless device. This can cause many problems for example because manufacturer s items may need to be changed or set when the wireless device is purchased e.g. the mobile directory number needs to be set. The sales representative of the wireless device must then learn to operate all the user interfaces from all the different manufacturers and often must attach the wireless device to another computing device.

Many problems with wireless devices experienced by end users may be traced to incorrect settings of these persistent storage data items. If a user of a wireless device experiences connectivity and or operational problems then often the solution requires the user to bring or mail the wireless device to a service center for a diagnostic analysis and the corresponding correction of the persistent storage item s .

Such a requirement is often burdensome for users and it does not allow the manufacturers network service providers or the developers of software to easily change the persistent storage items. This can be a very serious problem as the values in the persistent storage items may need to change to reflect changes that have occurred in the service providers networks either in the software or the hardware. Additionally the service providers may find more optimal setting for the wireless devices but are unable to load the settings onto the wireless devices without great effort. Further this lack of flexibility may make it very difficult for the software developers to modify their software for wireless devices that have already been sold.

Additionally wireless devices with incorrect persistent storage item settings may affect the operation of other wireless devices and or the wireless network. As such a problem experienced by one end user may be compounded and affect the user satisfaction of many users as well as cause operational problems for the wireless network service providers.

Updating the persistent storage items can be difficult as often the values of the persistent storage items are copied into a memory having a different speed than the original memory or other items are derived from values of the persistent storage item when the wireless device is started or re started or when software is installed on the wireless device.

Further some wireless devices allow the user of the wireless device to modify the persistent storage data without entering a password. This can result in persistent storage items being set so that the wireless device can no longer communicate with the network or it can make it very difficult to troubleshoot the problem with the wireless device. Further some wireless devices allow service people or programs to access confidential persistent storage items on a wireless device such as the personal telephone directory of the user without entering a password.

Thus improved apparatus and methods are desired to service the connectivity and operational performance of wireless devices on a wireless network relating to the persistent storage items.

To address one or more of the drawbacks of the prior art the disclosed embodiments provide apparatus and methods for remote service programming of a wireless device on a wireless network.

In one aspect a wireless communication device comprises a computer platform having a persistent storage comprising a plurality of persistent storage items each corresponding to a characteristic of the wireless device. Additionally the wireless communication device further comprises a service programming module operable to perform an activity on a user selectable one of the plurality of persistent storage items based on a predetermined persistent storage configuration.

In another aspect a method of managing persistent storage items on a wireless device comprises obtaining a persistent storage configuration identifying a predetermined activity and a user selectable one of a plurality of persistent storage items on the wireless device upon which to perform the activity. The method further includes executing the activity on the user selectable one of the plurality of persistent storage items. Additionally the method includes forwarding the result of executing the activity on the user selectable one of the plurality of persistent storage items. In a related aspect a wireless communications device comprises means for performing the respective above defined operations. In another related aspect a machine readable medium comprises instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above defined operations. In yet another related aspect at least one processor may be configured to perform the above defined operations.

In other aspects an apparatus for managing the persistent storage items on a wireless device comprises a service programming module comprising service programming logic operable to generate and transmit a persistent storage configuration to a predetermined wireless device. The persistent storage configuration comprises a user selectable activity to perform on a user selectable one of a plurality of persistent storage items associated the predetermined wireless device. The apparatus also includes an information repository comprising activity results received by the apparatus based on an execution of the persistent storage configuration by the wireless device. Additionally the apparatus includes an analyzer module operable to generate a report based on the activity results.

In further aspects a method of managing persistent storage items in a wireless device comprises generating a persistent storage configuration comprising a user selectable activity to be performed on a user selectable one of a plurality of persistent storage items associated with a predetermined wireless device. The method also includes forwarding the persistent storage configuration to the predetermined wireless device and receiving the results of an execution of the persistent storage configuration by the predetermined wireless device with respect to the user selectable one of the plurality of persistent storage items. Additionally the method includes generating a report based on the received results. In a related aspect an apparatus comprises means for performing the respective above defined operations. In another related aspect a machine readable medium comprises instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above defined operations. In yet another related aspect at least one processor may be configured to perform the above defined operations.

Additional aspects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments are set forth in part in the description which follows and in part are obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosed embodiments. The aspects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments may also be realized and attained by the means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

In the next step the wireless network help computer utilized by the operator initiates user manager module to interface with the wireless device Event . The user manager module may be resident on computer device such as a server located across wireless network from operator and wireless device . In other embodiments the user manger module may reside on the wireless device or on the wireless network help computer of the operator . In still other embodiments the operator and the user manager may reside on the wireless device .

The user manager module executes a user interface generator module to generate a user interface for the operator Event . In one embodiment the user interface is menu based however other embodiments may employ other types of interfaces such as icons or voice recognition. The user interface is then transmitted across the wireless network and or the wired connection to the operator Event . As will be discussed later the user interface may be consistent i.e. having similar menu sequences and similar configurations within a menu for different device characteristics such as software and hardware configurations so that the user the operator in this case does not need to learn different user interfaces.

In the next step the operator inputs a persistent storage item identifier and an associated activity in a menu on the user interface Event . Persistent storage item identifier corresponds to a persistent storage item in persistent storage upon which the user desires to perform an operation. Activity identifies the operation to be performed such as a read and or a write and may further include a value associated with the operation such as in the case of setting a persistent storage item value. In one example the user interface may present a plurality of possible persistent storage items and activities from which the user may select. For example in the case of the fast power drain complaint mentioned above the operator may select the slot cycle index persistent storage item. The slot cycle index tells the wireless device when to wake up and listen to paging. If the value for slot cycle index is too large then the wireless device may miss a call and if the value for the slot cycle index is too short then too much power will be used by the wireless device . Further for example in this scenario the operator may select a read activity . The operator via computer then transmits the selected persistent storage item identifier and corresponding activity to the user manager Event .

In the next step the configurator module generates a configuration Event which comprises the selected persistent storage item identifier an access ID and activity Access ID for example comprises a unique identifier associated with the operator or with the computer device which may be used to authenticate the user. The user manager then transmits the configuration to the wireless device Event .

The wireless device receives the configuration and then local persistent storage access control on the wireless device processes the configuration to make an access decision . In a scenario where the user is authenticated and where the user has proper access then the service programming module on wireless device executes configuration and carries out the specified activity with regard to the specified persistent storage item Event . For example the module may record the persistent storage item activity result for reporting purposes. In the above described scenario for example module executes and places the value of the slot cycle index in the information log where the read slot cycle index value comprises the persistent storage item activity result . In some aspects a copy of the persistent storage configuration may also be recorded in the log along with other relevant information such as a name or identifier associated with the data. In other embodiments the access decision may be made by the user manager module and in still other embodiments the local persistent storage access control may further query the originator of the configuration for additional access related information such as for a password a key a digital signature a digital certificate etc. Additionally access may be provided to one or more portions of persistent storage based on access ID . In this manner for example in the above described scenario operator may be permitted to read the slot cycle index but not be permitted to read the contents of the telephone book on the wireless device .

In the next step the wireless device transmits the information log to the user manager module Event . In some aspects the user manager module utilizes the user interface generator module to generate a user interface including the log information Event . In this aspect the user interface is then transmitted to the computer of the operator via the wired connection or the wireless network Event . The operator then views the contents of the log in this example the value of persistent storage item called slot cycle index and can then determine whether or not the value is acceptable Event . In other aspects Event may comprise analyzer module executing to automatically evaluate the information within log and to generate a report with respect to the persistent storage item such as to provide details as to whether or not the value is acceptable. In these aspects Event may comprise the forwarding of the report while Event may comprise the review and evaluation of the report by the operator.

Thus the present apparatus methods computer readable media and processors for the collection analysis reporting and setting of items in persistent storage of wireless devices . For example in one embodiment a predetermined standard for the values of the items in persistent storage may be established for all the wireless devices with a particular device or network parameter such as an associated network service provider a software configuration and or a hardware configuration. All the relevant wireless devices may then be set to the predetermined standard. Further the described embodiments may provide a consistent user interface for increasing the efficiency of retrieving and setting items in persistent storage of in dissimilar wireless devices .

Referring to wireless device can include any type of computerized wireless device such as cellular telephone personal digital assistant two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The apparatus and method of service programming i.e. retrieving setting and reporting on persistent storage items of the wireless device can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Additionally wireless device has input mechanism for generating inputs into wireless device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device . For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display voice recognition module etc. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

Further wireless device has computer platform that can transmit data across wireless network and that can receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from user manager module or another computer device connected to wireless network . Computer platform includes a data repository which may comprise volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and long term memory defined by persistent storage PS such as non volatile memory NVM embedded file system EFS secure file system SFS read only ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electronically erasable ROM EEPROM flash cards and or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data repository and persistent storage may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. In another embodiment the wireless device retrieves persistent storage from across a wireless network . In other words persistent storage may comprise any long term storage mechanism or storage mechanism capable of retaining data in a non powered state.

Persistent storage items are items of data settings profiles and or variables of any type associated with a characteristic an operational parameter functionality and or service programming parameter of the wireless device . Persistent storage items may include but are not limited to electronic serial number ESN preferred roaming list PRL slot cycle index mobile directory number MDN communication protocol related transmit and receive settings air interface settings authentication settings user identifications passwords and certifications subscription settings battery and or charger settings device application functionality settings such as text messaging settings media player settings group call settings position location determination settings language based settings web browser settings camera related settings device mode settings and operating system settings call management settings and phonebook entries.

Persistent storage items are stored in persistent storage but the wireless device may copy the persistent storage items into volatile memory such as random access memory RAM . This may be done as the time for the processing engine to retrieve an item from persistent storage the access time may be greater than the time for the processing engine to retrieve an item from volatile memory such as RAM. This may create a situation where in order to update the persistent storage items either the wireless device will have to be reset or a single persistent storage item will have to be changed in both volatile and nonvolatile memory . This will be discussed again in reference to a virtual machine residing on the wireless device .

Further computer platform also includes at least one processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as service programming module in a data repository of the wireless device . API is a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on wireless network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one embodiment such as in a cellular telephone communications processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc. For the disclosed embodiments processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components which receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the resident service programming module . Further all or portions of the persistent storage item activity result that is gathered and then logged in the information log is available from these subsystems .

Computer platform further includes programming service module to manage persistent storage items on wireless device . Programming service module may include any hardware software firmware and or other set of executable instructions operable to manage the reading and writing of persistent storage items on the wireless device and the transmission across the wireless network of any information i.e. persistent storage activity result relating to the management of persistent storage items of the wireless device . In one embodiment service programming module includes service programming logic that provides the capability for retrieving transmitting setting and storing of items in persistent storage of wireless device based on persistent storage configuration .

Service programming module may be initiated at any time and persistent storage activity result logged in the information log may be stored on the wireless device and obtained at any time via a wired or wireless connection to the wireless device . Further service programming module may store this information in an information log either in data repository or another memory device connectable to the wireless device . Information log may include any type of memory or storage device. Although illustrated as being associated with service programming module information log may be located anywhere in communication with service programming module such as on another server or computer device connected to wireless network on wireless device or on a wireless network help computer .

Service programming module may cause the wireless device to selectively transmit the value of selected persistent storage items for that wireless device to another computer device such as user manager module over the wireless network . In one embodiment service programming module transmits collected persistent storage items from that wireless device to user manager module across the wireless network . Alternatively persistent storage items are transmitted over an open communication connection from the wireless device over the wireless network to user manager module and thus piggybacked across an open connection such as a voice or data call at the wireless device . In a cellular network configuration persistent storage items can be transmitted to user manager module through short message service file transfer protocol hypertext transfer protocol etc. In another embodiment user manager module reads persistent storage items from the respective device through a remotely located service programming module . Accordingly access to service programming module allows the user manager module to remotely retrieve and set values for persistent storage items .

Service programming module operates based on persistent storage configuration . Persistent storage configuration may be generated by any computer device connected to wireless network or may be locally transmitted to the wireless device such as by a manual input from a user and or through transmission from a locally connected media reader or may even have been loaded on the wireless device at the time of manufacture. In one embodiment for example persistent storage configuration is generated by the user manager module as explained below.

Persistent storage configuration may include instructions and data which specify operations to be performed by service programming module . Persistent storage configuration may be completely configurable i.e. the defined activities and persistent storage items may be user selected and or determined and thus these defined parameters may take on a nearly unlimited variety and form. For example continuing to refer to in one embodiment persistent storage configuration may contain persistent storage request which is comprised of persistent storage item identifier activity and access ID . The persistent storage item identifier identifies a user selected one of a plurality of persistent storage item on the wireless device to which the activity refers. The activity identifies a user defined and configurable operation to perform such as a read and or write and or a value to add in the case of a write with respect to the identified persistent storage item. And access ID which may be optional refers to an identity of the party requesting the activity . For example persistent storage item identifier may be the persistent storage item called slot cycle index and activity may be for the service programming module to read the value of slot cycle index and place the value in the information log and transmit it to the user manager module . More generally the activity may be for retrieving or changing the value of persistent storage item identifier and may include instructions and data for the service programming module to perform on a virtual machine such as a JAVA run time environment. The instructions and data may be a general purpose program such as JAVA programming language that are to be run on virtual machine in order to retrieve or change the value of persistent storage item identifier . The functionality enabled by the instructions and data contained in the activity is described below with the description of the virtual machine . The access ID which may be contained in persistent storage request enables the service programming module to control access to the persistent storage items based on the persistent storage request . This will be described later with the description of the local persistent storage access control module . Thus persistent storage configuration provides a flexible means for controlling the operation of the service programming module .

As noted above service programming module may include virtual machine where the virtual machine may be operable to execute the instructions and data contained in activity that may be a general purpose programming language such as JAVA code. In one embodiment the general purpose programming language may operate any functionality of the respective wireless device . For example the virtual machine may conduct an actual call on the wireless device to gather information to use for retrieving or changing a persistent storage item . In other embodiments the instructions and data contained in activity may be a relatively simpler language. Further the instructions and data contained in the activity provide for functionality such as the ability to retrieve or change the persistent storage item identifier from both persistent storage and volatile memory . This ability allows a persistent storage item identifier which has been copied to volatile memory to be changed without the necessity of restarting the wireless device . As was discussed earlier a persistent storage item may be copied to volatile memory so that the access time for the processing engine to retrieve it will be less than if the item remained only in persistent storage. For example volatile memory may have an access time which is faster than the corresponding access time to persistent storage . In another embodiment the instructions and data contained in the activity may be an executable program that calculates a value for the persistent storage item prior to setting the persistent storage item . In this case the value for the persistent storage item may be a function of some other known value. For example if the persistent storage item identifier were slot cycle index activity may contain a program and data that calculates the speed of the processing engine and then uses this value to derive a value to which to set the slot cycle index. Further it should be noted that virtual machine may alternately or in addition comprise an extensible markup language XML processor in combination with received scripts that are received and processed to perform any predetermined functionality as discussed above on the wireless device. Thus the virtual machine provides for the ability to change or retrieve persistent storage items by using instructions and data contained in activity that may perform any operation on the wireless device .

Continuing to refer to in some embodiments the persistent storage configuration is examined by a local persistent storage access control module that includes access logic which is executable by local access control module to make an access decisions by either permitting or denying an activity on an persistent storage item for example based on activity and or based on the access ID . Additionally access logic may further include algorithms decision making routines encryption algorithms etc. for making access decisions and for transmitting storing and encrypting decrypting a password digital signature digital certificate key etc. The access logic may utilize access data which in one embodiment may be a data base that contains collections of the possible users of the wireless device all or some portion of the persistent storage items on the wireless device all or some portion of the possible activities for each persistent storage item and the authorized access IDs along with access permissions for combinations of these items. For example for persistent storage item such as slot cycle index the access data may contain information that identifies a predetermined operator as identified by access ID as being authorized to change the value of the slot index cycle with a predetermined password. The access ID contains such information as individual user ids passwords user types and other such information that may be useful in making access decisions for persistent storage items on a wireless device . Further local persistent storage access control module enables any predetermined functionality such as denying a predetermined party such as carrier operator access to a predetermined portion of the storage such as storage of personal user information such as a telephone book of a user of a wireless device and preventing a user of a wireless device from changing predetermined persistent storage item that may affect device and or network operations such as a persistent storage item that when improperly set would prevent further access to the wireless network . In one embodiment the local persistent storage access control module may request and verify a password or other access related mechanisms before permitting an activity on a persistent storage item . Further there may be different passwords or access mechanisms for different persistent storage items . So for example a persistent storage item associated with a local telephone book may have a different password than a persistent storage item that affects the operation of the wireless device . Local persistent storage access control module may include hardware software firmware and combinations thereof for making access decisions . Although illustrated as being associated with service programming module local persistent storage access control module may be located anywhere in communication with wireless network such as on user manager module another server connected to the network on a wireless device or on an operator computer . Thus the local access control module provides for the functionality of protecting the persistent storage items on the wireless device from either being inappropriately retrieved e.g. a private phonebook or inappropriately changed e.g. a user accidentally changing a persistent storage item that would affect the operation of the wireless device . Further in protecting the persistent storage items the local access control module may be useful in preventing intentional intrusions to the wireless device for example probes by a hacker and or access attempts from a virus.

Further service programming module may include a limited service configuration operable to establish a limited access communications channel across the wireless network . In some aspects limited access communications channel may not be available to the end user of wireless device . For example the limited access communications channel may be used for transmitting information log or for receiving persistent storage configuration . Further in the case when communications from wireless device have otherwise been disabled the limited access communications channel may allow emergency calls such as 911 calls or may allow calls to an operator or other designated party associated with the wireless network provider. Such a limited service channel may be useful in scenarios where a change has been made to persistent storage item that disables the communication ability of the wireless device and the limited service channel may be used to gain access to the wireless device and read and or write values to restore the functionality of the device. Additionally the identification and set up of the limited access communications channel is based on a limited service setting . Data service setting may identify the type of communications that are allowed and may identify the associated communication channels that can be utilized. Data service configuration may be received over the wireless network may be locally transferred to wireless device such as through a serial connection or may be preloaded on the wireless device .

Thus in one embodiment programming service module provides wireless device with a resident or self contained capability for retrieving changing and storing persistent storage items .

Referring back to user manager module may comprise at least one of any type of hardware software firmware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further user manager module may reside entirely on the wireless device . Further there can be separate servers or computer devices associated with user manager module that work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless devices and user manager module . User manager module or plurality of modules can send software agents or applications such as the service programming module to wireless device across wireless network such that the wireless device returns information from its resident applications and subsystems. For example wireless devices may transmit the result i.e. persistent storage activity result and the associated configuration of applying configuration to persistent storage items within an information log where the user manager module may then compare this result with predetermined persistent storage values to generate report . For example a predetermined persistent storage value may be a predetermined value and or range of values corresponding to a proper authorized and or predetermined standard setting of the given persistent storage item . Predetermined persistent storage values may vary depending on many factors such as the make or model of the wireless device the hardware and or software configuration the communications protocol being used the associated network carrier etc.

User manager includes remote service programming module to manage persistent storage items . Remote service programming module may include software hardware firmware and generally any executable instructions operable by user manager module . Remote service programming module may download all or a portion of the resident version of service programming module to a wireless device . Alternatively the resident version of remote service programming module may be loaded onto the wireless device during the initial assembly process or via direct connections during a configuration process. Further remote service programming module includes service programming logic which is executable by user manager module to generate persistent storage configuration and to manage the collection and analysis of information log from wireless devices . Remote service programming module may pull the log based on commands from a user or the log may be pushed from the wireless devices .

Referring to in one embodiment remote service programming module includes configurator module that includes hardware firmware software and or any other associated logic that allows the configurator module to generate persistent storage configuration . In one embodiment configurator module executes configuration logic which assembles the various components of a given persistent storage configuration which in some aspects may be based on making selections from a number of variable parameters. For example the parameters that make up persistent storage configuration may vary depending on device related parameters and or network related parameters . For example device related parameters may include but are not limited to the type make model manufacturer of the wireless device the hardware configurations and or versions the communications protocol and the software configurations and or versions. Further for example network related parameters may include but are not limited to the network service provider associated with the wireless device and the communications protocol used. It should be noted however that device related parameters and or network related parameters may include any other predetermined factors. For example the configuration logic may make use of configuration data which in one embodiment may be a data base that contains a plurality of possible software configurations a plurality of the possible processing engines a plurality of possible different languages and a plurality of different carriers among other possible data. The configuration logic uses the configuration data in order to aid in the generation of a configuration driven by a user. Further referring to configurator module is operable to operate with a user interface generator module to provide a consistent user interface as will be discussed in more detail below. Alternatively rather than selecting the various parameters individually configuration logic may provide the ability to select from a plurality of predetermined persistent storage configurations . This functionality allows for all or a subset of persistent storage items on a wireless device to be set to a standard. Once persistent storage configuration is generated configurator module and or remote service programming module is operable to transmit persistent storage configuration to one or more wireless devices in order to initiate the predetermined persistent storage activity .

Further referring to and as introduced earlier remote service programming module may have a user interface generator module . User interface generator module includes interface logic which is executable by user interface generator module to provide for a consistent user interface for use in programming persistent storage items in different types of wireless devices and or in wireless devices associated with different networks. For example referring to the process for accessing persistent storage items for wireless devices having different processing engines and different software S W configurations may be integrated by user interface generator module into a consistently ordered sequence of menus represented by views and each having consistently ordered arrangements of inputs and or outputs such as menu selections and or value entry locations. Interface logic may include algorithms decision making routines encryption algorithms etc. for generating a consistent sequence of user interfaces and for transmitting storing and optionally encrypting the consistent user interface . The user interface may be generated for a user who is a person or may be generated for an apparatus. The user interface generated may be in a graphical form or may be in form easier for a computer apparatus to interpret such as extensible mark up language XML . The interface logic may comprise interface data in order to generate the consistent user interface for the user. For example interface data may include device related parameters and or network related parameters . For example device related parameters may include but are not limited to the type make model manufacturer of the wireless device the hardware configurations and or versions the communications protocol and the software configurations and or versions. Further for example network related parameters may include but are not limited to the network service provider associated with the wireless device and the communications protocol used. It should be noted however that device related parameters and or network related parameters may include any other predetermined factors. For example in one embodiment interface data may comprise a data base that contains a plurality of the possible software configurations plurality of the possible processing engines a plurality of possible different languages a plurality of possible device manufacturers a plurality of possible device models and a plurality of possible carriers. The interface logic uses the interface data to sort through all of the variables and assemble an ordered user interface with the appropriate data corresponding to the parameters associated with a given wireless device. User interface generator module may include hardware software firmware and combinations thereof to generate consistent user interface . Although the user interface generator module is illustrated as being associated with the remote service programming module it may be located anywhere in communication with the wireless network such as on user manager module on the service programming module another server connected to the network on a respective wireless device or on a network help computer accessible through the wireless network .

Referring back to remote service programming module may include information repository module for storing information log received from wireless device based on executing persistent storage configuration . Information repository may include any type of memory or storage device. Although illustrated as being associated with remote service programming module information repository may be located anywhere in communication with user manager such as on another server or computer device connected to wireless network on wireless device or on a wireless network help computer .

Further as noted above remote service programming module may include analyzer which may include hardware software firmware and combinations thereof for analyzing and processing the information relating to persistent storage activity result in the information repository in order to generate a report . Additionally analyzer may further include analysis logic comprising algorithms decision making routines statistical programs etc. for analyzing and interpreting the information logs contained in the information repository module . Although illustrated as being associated with remote service programming module analyzer may be located anywhere in communication with user manager module on another server connected to wireless network on wireless device or on a wireless network help computer .

In one embodiment report and or information log may be reviewed manually such as by a technician field engineer carrier operator or the user of the wireless device for evaluation of the information relating to persistent storage activity result associated with a particular wireless device . Operator or the user of the wireless device may generate a new persistent storage configuration for the wireless device based on the information log and or on the report . Generally report may be useful in detecting and correcting problems related to persistent storage item values through analysis of information log . As such report includes any form of output that represents analysis of information log and other information contained in the information repository as well as any other associated information that may be incorporated in predetermined persistent storage values such as reports of viruses proper persistent storage values for the wireless device etc. The generated report may then be considered a measure of the integrity of the persistent storage items on a wireless device .

Although illustrated as producing report remote service programming module and its corresponding components can give a ready view of the information relating to persistent storage activity result collected from the wireless devices in any form such as tables maps graphics views plain text interactive programs or web pages or any other display or presentation of the data. For example remote service programming module may present persistent storage item related information on a monitor or display device and or may transmit this information such as via electronic mail to another computer device for further analysis or review. Also remote service programming module may be executable to change persistent storage configuration based on the information log and or based on the report generated by analyzer .

As previously described in reference to although operator in this embodiment is illustrated as a person in other embodiments operator may be a computing device which may include hardware software firmware and combinations thereof for analyzing and responding to report or to an external communication such as from the user of the wireless device . Further operator may reside on the same computing device as the user manager module which could be the wireless device . In one embodiment operator is a person that may respond to a report . Additionally operator may further include algorithms decision making routines statistical programs etc. for analyzing and interpreting report . Although illustrated as being associated with wireless network help computer operator may be located anywhere in communication with wireless network such as on user manager module another server connected to the network or even on the wireless device .

Referring to wireless network includes any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between wireless devices and any other device connected to wireless network . Further wireless network may include all network components and all connected devices that form the network. For example wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network a terrestrial telephone network a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network such as the MediaFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network. Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as Personal Communications Services code division multiple access wideband code division multiple access universal mobile telecommunications system advanced mobile phone service time division multiple access frequency division multiple access orthogonal frequency division multiple access global system for mobile communications analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Network interface may be any mechanism that allows user manager module to communicate across wireless network . For example network interface may include a local area network that connects user manager module through an Internet Service Provider to the Internet which in turn may be connected to a respected wireless device through a carrier network and a base station.

In system user manager module can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with a separate data repository for service programming information such as the data logs gathered from the wireless devices or interface data or configuration data . Further a data management server may be in communication with user manager module to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. User manager module data repository and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. User manager module and or data management server communicate with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless devices by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to one embodiment of a method for managing items in persistent storage of wireless device and providing a corresponding consistent user interface includes obtaining at least a portion of a service programming module for a computer platform of a wireless device Block . For example the service programming module may be embodied within the hardware and or firmware of the wireless device during the manufacture of the device. Alternatively the service programming module may be pushed by a user manager module to the wireless device or pulled from a user manager module by the wireless device across a wireless network . Alternatively the service programming module may be pulled or pushed depending on whether or not the wireless device has the latest version of the service programming module for the respective wireless device . In another alternative loading of the service programming module may be configurable in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event such as the wireless device having difficulty communicating with the wireless network or the wireless device communicating with a different network service provider. In another alternative the pushing or pulling of the service programming module to the wireless device may be configurable in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event.

Further this embodiment of the method includes obtaining at least a portion of a persistent storage configuration for retrieving and setting items in persistent storage of wireless device Block . For example persistent storage configuration may be embodied within the hardware and or firmware of the wireless device during the manufacture of the device. Alternatively persistent storage configuration may be pushed by a user manager module to the wireless device or pulled from a user manager module by the wireless device across a wireless network . In another alternative obtaining the persistent storage configuration may be initiated in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event such as the wireless device having difficulty communicating with the wireless network or the wireless device communicating with a different network service provider. In another alternative the pushing or pulling of the configuration to the wireless device may be configurable in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event. Additionally as noted above the generation of the configuration may occur through use of a user interface generator module which provides a consistent user interface to the user.

Additionally this embodiment of the method may include determining whether or not an activity called for by configuration is authorized such as based on access ID from the user Block . As discussed earlier the local persistent storage access control module makes an access decision and may request a password or other authorization mechanism from the user.

Further this embodiment of the method includes processing the persistent storage configuration Block . For example service program module carries out the activity called out by the configuration . For example persistent storage item identifier may be slot cycle index and activity may be either to retrieve or set the value of slot cycle index. Further the service programming logic may write to the information log the result of the requested activity i.e. the information relating to persistent storage activity result .

Further this embodiment of the method includes forwarding the persistent storage activity results contained in the information log to the user of the service programming module Block . As noted above this information includes the activity performed to one or more persistent storage items and may further include the configuration associated with the activity as well as any other device related and or network related information that may be of interest to the party sending the configuration.

Referring to one embodiment of a method operable on an apparatus to retrieve or change the value of persistent storage items on wireless device which in some aspects utilizes a consistent user interface includes generating a persistent storage configuration Block . In one embodiment a user such as a technician or operator accesses remote service programming module and executes configurator module to generate persistent storage configuration for a given wireless device . Configurator module may utilize configuration logic to determine and or customize the various parameters that comprise configuration and these parameters may vary depending on device related and or network related information such as the type make model of the wireless device the actual network service provider and the type of firmware. Configurator module may also utilize user interface generator module to provide a consistent user interface to the user as was discussed above.

Further this embodiment of the method includes forwarding the persistent storage configuration to the wireless device Block . For example user manager module may transmit persistent storage configuration across wireless network to wireless device . Alternatively in another embodiment configuration may be forwarded through a static or serial connection to wireless device . In another alternative configuration may be preloaded on wireless device during manufacture.

Further this embodiment of the method includes receiving persistent storage activity result information from the wireless device based on the persistent storage configuration Block . For example user manager module may receive information log including persistent storage activity result and or configuration from wireless device . The data in information log corresponds to a processing of persistent storage configuration by the respective wireless device . Additionally in one embodiment the user manager module receives information log over wireless network . Further information log may be received either as a whole or in pieces and assembled by user manager module and or remote service programming module . In another embodiment user manager module receives the information log by a static or serial connection to the wireless device or from some other computer device or storage media in communication with user manager .

Optionally one embodiment of the method includes generating a report based on the data in information log Block . The report may be generated by an analyzer and may simply report the result of the wireless device having processed the persistent storage configuration such as providing the value of persistent storage item or it may simply be a report reporting the results of setting an persistent storage item . The report may be part of an interaction with a user and may be part of a consistent user interface generated by the user interface generator module . The analyzer may also compare the information log with predetermined persistent storage values and report the results of this comparison e.g. persistent storage items are properly set on this wireless device or persistent storage items need to be reset on this wireless device etc. Further the analyzer logic may generate a persistent storage configuration based on the results of the comparison of the information log and the predetermined persistent storage values . The analyzer logic can in this embodiment maintain the persistent storage items of wireless device to a standard set of predetermined persistent storage values or set all wireless devices of a certain type to a set of predetermined persistent storage values .

Optionally in one embodiment the report is forwarded for analysis Block . For example service programming module may execute service programming logic to transmit report to another computer device the user of wireless device or a third party for review. In one embodiment service programming module transmits report to computer device for review by operator . Operator may take action based on report such as sending the user of the respective wireless device a request to have the wireless device replaced. In another embodiment the analysis of report results in the operator initiating the user manager module to change persistent storage items on the wireless device .

Thus the described embodiments allow a party such as a wireless network service provider a wireless device manufacturer a firmware manufacturer a hardware and or software manufacturer etc. to retrieve and or change persistent storage items on a wireless device . For example the network service provider may need to detect compromised persistent storage items so that they may provide good service to their customers and generate revenue.

Additionally the described embodiments allow the manufacturers of the wireless devices to configure persistent storage items with an application that provides a consistent user interface for different wireless devices different service providers and or different versions of hardware software firmware so that an application does not have to be written for each specific wireless device. Further the described embodiments allow for notifying the user of the wireless device that the wireless device needs to be repaired. In this case disabling the wireless device may at least inconvenience the user of the wireless device and may cause the network service provider to lose revenue. Further rather than disabling the device or requesting that the user of the wireless device have the wireless device serviced the described embodiments provide changing the persistent storage items in order to restore good operation of the wireless device.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable module device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

