---

title: Effort based relevance
abstract: Systems, methods, media, and other embodiments associated with effort based relevance in discussion forums are described. One example method includes receiving activity data concerning messages associated with electronic discussion forum topics. The activity data may include a view count (Vw), a book mark count (Bf), a reference count (Rf), and a reply count (Rp). The effort based relevance may be computed from Vw and one or more of, Bf, Rf, and Rp. Topics may be logically ordered using the effort based relevance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07809733&OS=07809733&RS=07809733
owner: Oracle International Corp.
number: 07809733
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060302
---
Discussion forums provide an increasingly popular medium through which people may participate in an information sharing community. In a discussion forum people may ask questions share opinions provide answers to questions and so on. Discussion forums typically employ an electronic bulletin board to provide access to various conversations or threads . As the number of conversations increases and as the number of messages added to the increasing number of conversations expands it can be difficult for users to locate and or isolate content in which they are interested. Thus users may be overwhelmed by the volume of information they may need to navigate to locate specific information. Additionally not all the information may be relevant to the user and not all the information may have equal value. Thus a user may become distracted by irrelevant and or useless threads lose focus and become lost.

Relevancy in the context of a discussion forum may be regarded from different points of view. A first aspect of relevancy may be traditional keyword based relevancy. A user may be looking for information in threads e.g. conversations that discuss a certain subject. A conversation may include an original message and replies to that message. Conventionally these threads and or messages within the threads may be found using a keyword search. However this type of search may provide a large number of threads and or messages that are potentially irrelevant. Some discussion forums therefore provide additional information about a thread and or a message. For example a discussion forum may consider information about how many times a certain thread has been accessed and or how many times a particular message in a thread has been accessed. This information may be used to further rank items retrieved in response to a keyword based search. Additionally and or alternatively this information may be provided to users so that they can decide which threads and or messages to review. Some discussion forums may also provide other statistics e.g. reply count user rating that may be presented to a user and or used to further rank items previously ranked by keyword relevancy.

Example systems and methods concern effort based relevance in a discussion forum environment. Effort based relevance facilitates quantifying how relevant a message may be to other users in various contexts e.g. browsing searching administering based on how much effort a user s puts into a message. In one example message relevancies may be aggregated into topic relevancies. Effort may be gauged by tracking and analyzing various activities performed with respect to a thread and or message. These activities may include for example viewing an item book marking an item referencing an item replying to an item rating an item requesting that an item be censored and so on.

View count is a basic statistic associated with discussion forums. When a message in a thread is accessed a view count statistic for that message and or thread may be updated. Tracking the number of times an item e.g. thread message is accessed e.g. viewed provides baseline information concerning that item. Items having higher view counts e.g. that are viewed more frequently are likely more interesting and or contain more valuable information than those with lower view counts. Tracking and quantifying additional actions taken for an item facilitates producing additional information upon which further processing may be based. This further processing may include for example making recommendations concerning additional items to access.

One additional action that may be tracked is the number of replies to an item. Items for which there is a high ratio of replies to views may indicate that the item is provocative timely interesting unresolved and so on. A reply may be for example a response to a question an additional question an observation on a question answer pair and so on. Topics with long reply trails e.g. a large number of replies have content that is relatively popular compared to other topics.

Another additional action that may be tracked is the number of times an item is book marked. A book mark may be used to facilitate easily returning to an item. While the term book mark is employed the concept associated with a book mark is to facilitate recalling that an item has been accessed and to facilitate returning to that item. Items for which there is a high ratio of book marks to views may indicate that the items contain resolved information that may be useful on an on going basis. The high ratio of book marks to views may indicate that there is long term interest in an item.

Another additional action that may be tracked is the number of times an item is referenced. Items for which there is a high ratio of references to views may indicate that the items contain resolved information e.g. an answer to a question . When an item is referenced by other items its lifetime is prolonged. This type of item may be a candidate subject for an automatically generated frequently asked question.

While each of these additional actions is interesting in isolation combining information concerning the additional actions may provide even further insights and allow even more interesting additional processing. Some mathematics illustrates one possibility. facilitates visualizing the results of this math.

Consider computing two additional values that will facilitate dividing the graph into quadrants. The two additional values are Average Average .

Information gathered about an item can now be used to position the item on the X Y graph and with respect to the and quadrant forming reference points. Items in the graph may have a score that varies directly with the distance from the X Y graph origin. Items in a quadrant may have a score that varies directly with the distance from the intersection. These scores indicate an overall effort based relevance for an item and a relevance of an item with respect to the quadrant in which it is located. The different quadrants highlight different characteristics associated with an item. When a user navigates in a particular quadrant the scores may be used to recommend other topics that a user may wish to access.

In the example the upper right quadrant may be considered to contain the most popular items. These items have received both a high number of references and or book marks and a high number of replies. These topics may be good starting points for navigating a discussion forum and thus may be suggested as useful entry points for a user visiting a discussion forum.

The upper left quadrant may be considered to contain highly referenced items and highly book marked items that have not received many replies. Thus these may appear to be terminal items e.g. items that provide answers . These items may be good candidates for users who came to a discussion forum looking for answers to questions. In one example these types of items may be provided by a software vendor as a sort of self help support center.

The lower right quadrant may be considered to contain stimulating items that receive a lot of replies but which are neither referenced nor book marked. Thus these may be interesting items that stimulate replies but that require no long term commitment e.g. reference book mark . These items may be useful for a user who wants to find out what is going on in a discussion forum and who wants to participate in an ongoing active thread. This quadrant may satisfy queries like what s today s hot topic 

The lower left quadrant may be considered to contain items that are popular to read but which receive little additional user effort e.g. replies references book marks . Items in this quadrant may be recommended as entry points for users.

In one example systems and methods may be configurable with respect to combining traditional keyword based relevance ranking and effort based relevancy ranking. Additionally systems and methods may be configurable with respect to context sensitive e.g. quadrant based ranking. In one example traditional keyword based searching may produce a ranked list of items. These items may be ranked on traditional keyword matching attributes e.g. term frequency term location . In the example a determination may then be made concerning in which quadrant a user is operating. For example is a user looking for questions or is the user looking for answers. Based on the quadrant determination scores associated with effort based relevance ranking may then be combined with scores associated with keyword based relevancy to produce a blended relevancy. Decisions concerning which items to display to a user which items to recommend to a user and so on may then be based on the blended relevancy.

In one example systems and methods may be configurable with respect to time periods for which effort based relevance is computed. For example a first user may be interested in viewing items whose effort based relevance has been computed over the lifetime of a discussion forum. A second user may be interested in viewing items whose effort based relevance has been computed over the last month. A third user may be interested in viewing items whose effort based relevance was computed in relation to a certain date e.g. new product release data third quarter in a certain year the weeks before and after an election . This type of time configurability facilitates responding to questions concerning what users were reading asking replying to and book marking at various points in time and or for various spans of time. This information may be useful for example to a systems administrator looking for items to archive to purge to highlight to censor and so on.

Some items may receive ratings from users. For example a user may give an item a score of three out of five stars on various attributes like usefulness timeliness and so on. In one example these ratings may be used to weight an effort based relevance score. Once again this information may be useful to a systems administrator looking for items to purge or looking to re compute an index to facilitate faster retrieval of certain e.g. most popular most relevant items.

The following includes definitions of selected terms employed herein. The definitions include various examples and or forms of components that fall within the scope of a term and that may be used for implementation. The examples are not intended to be limiting. Both singular and plural forms of terms may be within the definitions.

 Computer component as used herein refers to a computer related entity e.g. hardware firmware software software in execution combinations thereof . Computer components may include for example a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and a computer. A computer component s may reside within a process and or thread. A computer component may be localized on one computer and or may be distributed between multiple computers.

 Computer communication as used herein refers to a communication between computing devices e.g. computer personal digital assistant cellular telephone and can be for example a network transfer a file transfer an applet transfer an email a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP transfer and so on. A computer communication can occur across for example a wireless system e.g. IEEE 802.11 an Ethernet system e.g. IEEE 802.3 a token ring system e.g. IEEE 802.5 a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a point to point system a circuit switching system a packet switching system and so on.

 Computer readable medium as used herein refers to a medium that participates in directly or indirectly providing signals instructions and or data that can be read by a computer. A computer readable medium may take forms including but not limited to non volatile media e.g. optical disk magnetic disk and volatile media e.g. semiconductor memory dynamic memory . Common forms of computer readable mediums include floppy disks hard disks magnetic tapes CD ROMs RAMs ROMs and so on.

 Logic as used herein includes but is not limited to hardware firmware software embodied on a computer readable medium and or combinations thereof to perform a function s or an action s and or to cause a function or action from another logic method and or system. Logic may include a software controlled microprocessor discrete logic e.g. application specific integrated circuit ASIC an analog circuit a digital circuit a programmed logic device a memory device containing instructions and so on. Logic may include a gate s a combination of gates other circuit components and so on. Where multiple logical units are described it may be possible in some examples to incorporate the multiple logical units into one physical logic. Similarly where a single logical logic is described it may be possible in some examples to distribute that single logical logic between multiple physical units.

An operable connection or a connection by which entities are operably connected is one in which signals physical communications and or logical communications may be sent and or received. An operable connection may include a physical interface an electrical interface and or a data interface. An operable connection may include differing combinations of interfaces and or connections sufficient to allow operable control. For example two entities can be operably connected to communicate signals to each other directly or through one or more intermediate entities e.g. processor operating system logic software . Logical and or physical communication channels can be used to create an operable connection.

 Signal as used herein includes but is not limited to electrical signals optical signals analog signals digital signals data computer instructions processor instructions messages a bit a bit stream or other means that can be received transmitted and or detected.

 Software as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more computer instructions and or processor instructions stored on a computer readable medium that can be read interpreted compiled and or executed by a computer and or processor. Software causes a computer processor or other electronic device to perform functions actions and or behave in a desired manner. Software may be embodied in various forms including routines algorithms modules methods and or programs. In different examples software may be embodied in separate applications and or code from dynamically linked libraries. In different examples software may be implemented in executable and or loadable forms including but not limited to a stand alone program an object a function local and or remote a servelet an applet instructions stored in a memory part of an operating system and so on. In different examples computer readable and or executable instructions may be located in one logic and or distributed between multiple communicating co operating and or parallel processing logical units and thus may be loaded and or executed in serial parallel massively parallel and other manners.

Suitable software for implementing various components of example systems and methods described herein may be developed using programming languages and tools e.g. Java C C C SQL APIs SDKs assembler . Software whether an entire system or a component of a system may be embodied as an article of manufacture and maintained or provided as part of a computer readable medium. Software may include signals that transmit program code to a recipient over a network or other communication medium.

 User as used herein includes but is not limited to one or more persons software computers or other devices or combinations of these.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithm descriptions and representations of operations on electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in hardware. These are used by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to others. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a sequence of operations that produce a result. The operations may include physical manipulations of physical quantities. The manipulations may produce a transitory physical change like that in an electromagnetic transmission signal.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these electrical and or magnetic signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers and so on. These and similar terms are associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise it is appreciated that throughout the description terms including processing computing calculating determining displaying automatically performing an action and so on refer to actions and processes of a computer system logic processor or similar electronic device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electric electronic magnetic quantities.

Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methods are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated that the methods are not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described. Moreover less than all the illustrated blocks may be required to implement an example method. In some examples blocks may be combined separated into multiple components may employ additional not illustrated blocks and so on. In some examples blocks may be implemented in logic. In other examples processing blocks may represent functions and or actions performed by functionally equivalent circuits e.g. an analog circuit a digital signal processor circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other logic device. Blocks may represent executable instructions that cause a computer processor and or logic device to respond to perform an action s to change states and or to make decisions. While the figures illustrate various actions occurring in serial it is to be appreciated that in some examples various actions could occur concurrently substantially in parallel and or at substantially different points in time.

It will be appreciated that electronic and software applications may involve dynamic and flexible processes and thus that illustrated blocks can be performed in other sequences different than the one shown and or blocks may be combined or separated into multiple components. In some examples blocks may be performed concurrently substantially in parallel and or at substantially different points in time.

Bf may concern for example the number of times a user manipulated a data structure to facilitate returning to a message and or topic. For example a user may have added an entry to a favorites list may have established a desktop icon link to the entry and so on. Like Vw in different examples Bf may be related to an individual user sets of users and or all users for various periods of time. Rf may concern for example the number of times a user manipulated a data structure to facilitate having another message and or topic locate a message. For example a user may have added a link to the referenced message to a reply or to a message in another thread. Rp may concern for example the number of replies to a message. In different examples Rp may be computed for an individual for a set of users for all users and may be computed for different periods of time.

Method may also include at computing an effort based relevance for a member of the set of topics based on Vw and one or more of Bf Rf and Rp for the member. In one example the effort based relevance will be computed as the Euclidean distance from an origin e.g. 0 0 to a point in an X Y graph. The x co ordinate in the graph for a topic may be determined for example by Vw and Rp e.g. Rp Vw . The y co ordinate in the graph for a topic may be determined for example by Vw Bf and Rf e.g. Bf Rf Vw . In one example effort based relevance may be computed for different periods of time see step . For example effort based relevance may be computed for the lifetime of a discussion forum for a period of time having a defined start and end e.g. second quarter of 2005 for a period of time before and or after a certain date e.g. week before and after an election and so on.

In one example computing effort based relevance may also include computing a second measurement. The second measurement may be the distance between a point in an X Y graph associated with a topic and the intersection of two axis partitioning measures. For example an X axis partitioning measure may be based on the average of Rp Vw for a set of topics and a Y axis partitioning measure may be based on the average of Rf Bf Vw for the set of topics. Thus the second measurement may be the distance between a point in an X Y graph associated with a topic and the intersection of and . In one example effort based relevance may be based on both the Euclidean distance from a first point described by the intersection of the X axis and the Y axis e.g. 0 0 and the Euclidean distance from a second point described by the intersection of and . This may facilitate providing information concerning overall relevance for a topic and also context sensitive relevance for a topic.

Method may also include at logically ordering the set of topics with respect to effort based relevance. For example topics may be ordered based on their Euclidean distance from the origin based on their X co ordinate based on their Y co ordinate and so on. In one example individual messages may be used to order a set of topics while in another example aggregations of messages may be used to order a set of topics. Since effort based relevance may include two components e.g. distance from origin distance from topics may be logically ordered overall and or within a certain context. The context may be associated with for example a task the user is performing like following a topic participating in a topic referencing an element in a topic and performing a combination of tasks. The context may also be associated with a quadrant in the X Y graph in which a topic is located.

In one example effort based relevance may be combined with keyword based relevance. Thus a user may be presented with information e.g. choices recommendations that can guide them to additional topics and or messages with similar keyword relevancies e.g. similar subject matter and similar effort based relevancy. In this way a user may find a topic that has had similar actions e.g. numerous resolved questions on similar subject matter.

In one example the activity data may also include a rating data Rd . Rd may be for example a score attached to a message and or topic by a user s . This score may be for example a number of stars given to a message and or topic a numeric score and so on. This rating data may be used to manipulate e.g. recalculate the effort based relevance. For example if a high percentage of users who read a message with a high Vw give the message a low Rd then it may be desirable to reduce the effort based relevancy that would otherwise attach to the message. For example a certain message may have a very provocative title or subject that prompts many users visiting the discussion forum to read the message. However the body of the message may not live up to the subject and the message therefore consistently receives a low user rating. Conversely a message with a low Vw may consistently receive a high user rating. In this case it may be desirable to increase the effort based relevancy that would otherwise attach to the message. For example a certain message may have a very non descript or even inaccurate title or subject that leads discussion forum users to ignore the message. However those brave few who read the message may rate it very highly since it may provide some critical nugget of information. Thus method may also include weighting effort based relevance using Rd.

Method may also include automatically generating a set of frequently asked questions see step . Certain ratios of Vw Rf Rd and Bf may indicate that a certain topic includes questions and answers that users are consistently reading. Thus method may be configured to provide discussion forum with an entry point for these messages and or topics based at least in part on the effort based relevance for these messages and or topics. While frequently asked questions is used to describe this entry point the concept concerns making a separate and or additional entry point for users visiting a discussion forum where the entry point makes it easier for a user to find these messages.

In one example method may include providing a two dimensional plot of the relative position of members of the set of topics. illustrates one example of a co ordinate system on which the plot may be placed. This plot may be provided for example as a set of data that may be rendered as a set of data that has been rendered as a spread sheet as a database table and so on. The position of a topic may be determined by effort based relevance. In one example the X component of a topic position will be Rp Vw and the Y component of a topic position will be Bf Rf Vw .

While B and C illustrate various actions occurring in serial it is to be appreciated that various actions illustrated in B and C could occur substantially in parallel. By way of illustration a first process could receive activity data a second process could compute effort based relevancy and a third process could logically order topics. While three processes are described it is to be appreciated that a greater and or lesser number of processes could be employed and that lightweight processes regular processes threads and other approaches could be employed. Furthermore since activity data may be received in a substantially continuous manner these processes may be configured to operate in parallel to facilitate substantially continuously updating the order of topics based on updated effort based relevancy.

In one example a method is implemented as processor executable instructions and or operations stored on a computer readable medium. Thus in one example a computer readable medium may store processor executable instructions operable to perform a method that includes receiving an activity data concerning messages associated with members of a set of topics associated with an electronic discussion forum. The method may also include computing an effort based relevance for members of the set of topics based on the activity data. The method may also include logically ordering the set of topics based on the computed effort based relevance. While the above method is described being stored on a computer readable medium it is to be appreciated that other example methods described herein may also be stored on a computer readable medium.

For example method may include at acquiring a user data concerning a user visiting the discussion forum. The user data may include for example a set of viewed topics a set of viewed messages a set of queries provided by the user and so on. This user data is related to what a user is doing when they visit a discussion forum. Are they just reading messages Are they replying to messages Are they looking for answers to questions The type of activity in which a user is engaged may effect how effort based relevance is used to guide the user to various additional topics and or messages. For example a user who is book marking messages or topics dealing with installing an operating system upgrade may be guided to similar installation topics.

Method may include at determining a context in which the user is operating. The context may be for example that a user is following a topic participating in a topic referencing an element in a topic and performing a combination of these actions. These contexts may be determined for example by evaluating ratios between messages viewed referenced messages viewed book marked messages viewed replies viewed replies posted and so on. The types of information in which a user may be interested may depend on their context. For example a user who is reading messages with long reply trails may be interested in reading what s hot .

Method may also include at providing recommendation data to the user. Recommendation data may include topics that method determines are relevant to a user. The determination may be based on the context in which the user is operating and the effort based relevance for topics. For example if a user is simply reading messages then interesting topics that are mostly read and rarely replied to or referenced may be provided as additional reading recommendations to a user. However if a user is reading messages and following reply and or reference trails that indicate that a user is looking for an answer to a question then a different set of messages and or topics that may relate to answering questions in the subject area may be provided to the user as additional viewing recommendations.

A first point P is illustrated in quadrant . A second point P is illustrated in quadrant . Point P is closer to origin 0 0 than P. Point P is farther from point than point P. While point P may have a greater effort based relevance than P overall within their respective quadrants point P may be more relevant. A user who is reading without taking other actions may be directed to a topic with an effort based relevance near P while a user who is reading and responding may be directed to a topic with an effort based relevance near P.

The action logic may also be configured to compute a value countthat stores the number of responses to a message. Reponses to a message may indicate that it is provocative that it is asking a question for which people are providing answers and so on. Like count countmay include the number of responses to a message from a particular user from a set of users by all users and so on for different periods of time. Items with a long response trail may indicate items having outstanding issues like open questions.

The action logic may also be configured to compute a value countthat stores the number of times an internal link was created to a message and a value countthat stores the number of times an external link was created to a message. An internal link is a link that makes it easier for the user who created the link to return to the linked item. An external link is a link that makes it easier for a user other than the user who created the link to locate the linked item. Like countand count countand countmay include the number of links created by a particular user by a set of users by all users and so on for different periods of time. Items having a high ratio of links to viewings may be items that contain useful information that users want to have at their fingertips or that users want to bring to the attention of other users.

System may also include an action relevance logic that is configured to determine an action based relevance for a topic. The action based relevance may be based at least in part on the actions taken by users. In one example the action based relevance may take the form of a numeric value. The numeric value may be based on a vector connecting an origin to a point recall the plot in . The vector may have an X component and a Y component. In one example the X component may be based on a ratio of countto countand the Y component may be based on a ratio of countto countand count.

System may include a context logic that is configured to acquire user data concerning a user visiting the discussion forum. This user data may include information about a set of topics that were viewed by a user s a set of messages that were viewed by a user s a set of queries provided by a user s and so on. The context logic may also be configured to determine a context in which the user is operating.

System may also include a recommendation logic that is configured to provide a recommendation data to the user. This recommendation data may include a set of topics in which system considers a user may be interested. Which topics are recommended may depend at least in part on the context in which the user is operating and the action based relevance. For example a user who is looking for topics and or messages that are highly read highly linked and highly responded to may be steered towards a first set of topics while a user who is looking for hot topics that are unresolved may be steered towards a different set of topics.

System may also include a timeframe logic that is configured to control the action relevance logic to determine action based relevance for different configurable periods of time. For example a first user may be interested in action based relevance that spans the lifetime of a discussion forum while a second user may only be interested in action based relevance for the past month. Consider a discussion forum administrator who is trying to reclaim some memory. The discussion forum administrator may compute action based relevancies using several time frames. This may facilitate identifying recently active threads previously active threads consistently active threads dead threads irrelevant threads and so on.

System may also include a presentation logic that is configured to display a two dimensional graphical representation of relationships between topics. The relationships may be based on action based relevance. Various points may be presented on the two dimensional graphical representation and these points may be used as entry points to discussion topics. For example an interactive graphical representation may be presented to a user. The user may click on a point in the graphical representation to be taken to topics having similar action based relevancies. When coupled with keyword based relevancy the action based relevancy may facilitate locating topics that are related not only by subject matter but also by activity types and levels.

Generally describing an example configuration of computer processor may be a variety of various processors including dual microprocessor and other multi processor architectures. Memory may include volatile memory and or non volatile memory. Non volatile memory may include for example ROM PROM EPROM and EEPROM. Volatile memory may include for example RAM synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM and direct RAM bus RAM DRRAM .

Disk may be operably connected to the computer via for example an input output interface e.g. card device and an input output port . Disk may be for example a magnetic disk drive a solid state disk drive a floppy disk drive a tape drive a Zip drive a flash memory card and or a memory stick. Furthermore disk may be a CD ROM a CD recordable drive CD R drive a CD rewriteable drive CD RW drive and or a digital video ROM drive DVD ROM . Memory can store processes and or data for example. Disk and or memory can store an operating system that controls and allocates resources of computer .

Bus may be a single internal bus interconnect architecture and or other bus or mesh architectures. While a single bus is illustrated it is to be appreciated that computer may communicate with various devices logics and peripherals using other busses e.g. PCIE SATA Infiniband 1394 USB Ethernet . Bus can be types including for example a memory bus a memory controller a peripheral bus an external bus a crossbar switch and or a local bus. The local bus may be for example an industrial standard architecture ISA bus a micro channel architecture MSA bus an extended ISA EISA bus a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus a universal serial USB bus and a small computer systems interface SCSI bus.

Computer may interact with input output devices via i o interfaces and input output ports . Input output devices may be for example a keyboard a microphone a pointing and selection device cameras video cards displays disk network devices and so on. Input output ports may include for example serial ports parallel ports and USB ports.

Computer can operate in a network environment and thus may be connected to network devices via i o interfaces and or i o ports . Through the network devices computer may interact with a network. Through the network computer may be logically connected to remote computers. Networks with which computer may interact include but are not limited to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and other networks. In different examples network devices may connect to LAN technologies including for example fiber distributed data interface FDDI copper distributed data interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 token ring IEEE 802.5 wireless computer communication IEEE 802.11 and Bluetooth IEEE 802.15.1 . Similarly network devices may connect to WAN technologies including for example point to point links circuit switching networks e.g. integrated services digital networks ISDN packet switching networks and digital subscriber lines DSL .

API may facilitate providing data values to system and or may facilitate retrieving data values from system . For example a process that tracks view counts can provide view count data to system via API by using a call provided in API . In one example an API can be stored on a computer readable medium.

Interfaces in API can include but are not limited to a first interface that communicates a view count data a second interface that communicates a reference count data a third interface that communicates a reply count data and a fourth interface that communicates an effort based relevance data derived from the view count data the reference count data and the reply count data. In different examples the view count data may describe for example how many times a particular user viewed a message or messages in a topic how many times a set of users viewed a message or messages in a topic how many total times a message was viewed and so on. In different examples the reference count data may describe how many times a message or topic was referenced by a user a set of users and or all users for different periods of time. Similarly the reply count data may describe how many replies exist for a message or topic. The replies may be related to a user a set of users and or all users for different periods of time. The effort based relevance data may describe the effort based relevance computed for a message and or topic.

To the extent that the term includes or including is employed in the detailed description or the claims it is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as that term is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim. Furthermore to the extent that the term or is employed in the detailed description or claims e.g. A or B it is intended to mean A or B or both . The term and or is used in the same manner meaning A or B or both . When the applicants intend to indicate only A or B but not both then the term only A or B but not both will be employed. Thus use of the term or herein is the inclusive and not the exclusive use. See Bryan A. Garner A Dictionary of Modern Legal Usage 624 2d. Ed. 1995 .

To the extent that the phrase one or more of A B and C is employed herein e.g. a data store configured to store one or more of A B and C it is intended to convey the set of possibilities A B C AB AC BC and or ABC e.g. the data store may store only A only B only C A B A C B C and or A B C . It is not intended to require one of A one of B and one of C. When the applicants intend to indicate at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C then the phrasing at least one of A at least one of B and at least one of C will be employed.

