---

title: Mobile telephone services provided using pre-paid financial accounts
abstract: A method and system for providing telephone services. An exemplary system includes a financial account having at least one balance. Funds can be added to the balance of the account using a variety of deposit mechanisms. Similarly, the funds located in the account may be accessed using a variety of financial mechanisms, including a debit card, check, and the like. In addition, the funds located in the account may be accessed with a telephone, where transactions performed by the telephone, such as telephone calls, Internet access, and the like, are directly funded by the financial account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08085913&OS=08085913&RS=08085913
owner: Galileo Processing, Inc.
number: 08085913
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060821
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 709 637 filed Aug. 19 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for creating and managing financial accounts. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to systems for using a prepaid financial account to pay for mobile services.

Mobile telephone services are currently available to consumers in both pre paid and post paid modes. To receive post paid mobile telephone services consumers typically enter into an agreement with a wireless telephone services provider. Under a typical agreement with a wireless telephone services provider a consumer pays a monthly fee in exchange for the ability to use a predetermined number of wireless telephone minutes and or services on the network of the wireless telephone services provider. In the event that the consumer exceeds the predetermined number of minutes and or services penalty or per minute charges are assessed and billed to the account of the consumer. Each month the consumer pays any penalty or per minute fees that might have been incurred as well as the regular monthly fee.

While under a post paid mobile telephone services agreement consumers receive and pay monthly bills based on the number of minutes and or services used for a certain month under a pre paid mobile telephone service agreement consumers pre pay an amount to load a mobile telephone with minutes and or services. When the amount is depleted the mobile telephone ceases to function until the pre aid account receives funds and the minutes and or services of the telephone are reloaded. Examples of pre paid mobile telephone services include POSA Point of Sale Activation and PIN delivery systems.

Although consumers can select either post paid or pre paid mobile services consumer flexibility with regard to choice of mobile service providers and payment of mobile services is limited. Both post paid and pre paid mobile telephone services are available to consumers primarily through mobile telephone service providers offering mobile telephone services exclusively. In particular consumers have limited flexibility with regard to systems and methods for paying for and using minutes and or services on mobile telephones.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one exemplary technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

One embodiment is directed to a method of providing telephone services. The method may be practiced for example in a computer system containing financial account information. The method includes associating a financial account with at least one telephone number. The financial account is configured to manage financial transactions in addition to those related to the telephone number associated with the financial account. The method also includes receiving a notification of the occurrence of a telephone transaction related to the at least one telephone number. An amount is then deducted from an account balance of the financial account reflecting at least a portion of the value of the telephone transaction

Another embodiment described in more detail herein includes a system for providing telephone services. The system includes a financial account having at least one balance. The funds can be added to one or more balances of the financial account by a deposit component. The system also includes a debit component for accessing the at least one balance of the financial account with a telephone where the telephone transactions associated with the usage of the telephone are funded by the at least one balance of the financial account. The account balance may also be accessed by at least one other financial vehicle in addition to the telephone such as for example a debit card.

A further embodiment is directed to a method of providing telephone services. The method includes identifying a financial account having an account balance and being configured for managing financial transactions that are unrelated to telephone transactions. The financial account is associated with at least one telephone number. A debit component is linked to the telephone number associated with the financial account such that when a telephone transaction is performed that relates to the at least one telephone number an appropriate amount is debited from the account balance of the financial account.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential characteristics of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Additional features will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the teachings herein. Features of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. Features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for using a financial account to access and pay for telephone services. A telephone is linked to a financial account such that usage fees incurred by the use of minutes services and or other telephone transactions associated with the telephone are automatically deducted from a balance of the account. Thus the financial account provider offers both financial account services and telephone services associated with the financial account. Although the present invention may be applied to both traditional wireline telephones and to mobile telephones the disclosure will primarily explain the invention s application to mobile telephones.

In one embodiment of the invention the financial account is maintained in a system in which any number of different balances of the account can be added to by any number of different techniques. illustrates aspects of such a system and the associated mobile telephone device and network . For example funds may be added to the balance of the financial account of by direct deposit of payroll funds or by Internet or retail transactions . In addition the financial account may be linked to other accounts such as a brokerage account for example. Further the financial account may include a line of credit with a financial institution. The line of credit may be linked to the account as an overdraft account . The data that defines the accounts using the techniques disclosed herein may be stored in a database or another data structure and allow the financial institution to control and manage account activity in ways that are compatible with the account definition.

In addition to maintaining any number of different balances the financial account can be accessed by any number of different methods including debit cards or credit cards for example. In general the financial account may further operate in a similar manner as a traditional checking account savings account money market account and the like. Therefore the financial account allows the user to easily deposit and withdraw funds using a variety of deposit and debiting mechanisms.

The financial account may be associated with one or more account balances and each of which may be used for general purpose expenses or alternatively may be dedicated to specific types of expenses. The funds located within the account balances and may be accessed via a variety of financial mechanisms including but not limited to those described above.

In accordance with the present invention a telephone such as a mobile telephone is linked to the financial account much like a debit card or credit card may be linked to the account in that use of the mobile telephone automatically deducts funds from the account according to the type of telephone transaction used on the telephone. The telephone transaction may include a telephone call wherein the value of the transaction may be based on the number of minutes used the time and date that the telephone call was made the location of the caller and the receiver of the telephone call the identities of the caller and the receiver of the telephone call the types of calling plans participated in by the caller and the receiver of the telephone call and the like. The telephone transaction may also include a variety of other services that are available through a telephone service plan such as Internet usage Short Messaging Service i.e. SMS or text messaging Multimedia Messaging Service MMS data downloads e.g. ringtones photos videos video games and the like Email services voice messaging services and the like.

When a telephone transaction is performed by the telephone an appropriate amount that is attributable to the user of the telephone may be deducted from one or more of the account balances and in order to pay for the services used. As described above the funds located in the account balances and may be established for a variety of purpose including payment of a specific type of expense. In one embodiment one or more of the account balances and may be dedicated for the payment for the telephone transactions performed by the telephone as described above. By dedicating an account balance or to the payment of telephone services funds are not being drawn directly from the user s primary account balance such as a checking or savings account balance in order to pay for the telephone service. A user may opt to directly deposit a predefined amount into account balance or dedicated to the payment of telephone services each month in order to limit the amount of money that may be used for telephone services. Multiple account balances may be established where each account balance is associated with a unique telephone or user such as multiple family members. Further a balance of the financial account designated to be used for mobile telephone fees may also be linked to an overdraft balance of the financial account thereby enabling a user of the mobile telephone to have increased flexibility in usage of the mobile telephone.

In one embodiment one or more of the account balances and may include a pre paid account balance. The pre paid accounts used according to the invention to provide mobile telephone services can be simpler and may include only a single balance and method of adding funds to the account. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 137 993 filed May 25 2005 describes examples of accounts that can be adapted for use according to the invention and is incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment of the invention a client having a financial account with the account provider initiates a telephone transaction such as a telephone call from a mobile telephone associated with the financial account and linked to the telephone network . In one embodiment the telephone service provider requests authorization from the account provider prior to performing the telephone transaction. Upon receiving the authorization request from the telephone service provider the telephone service provider checks the financial account to determine if the account contains sufficient funds to pay for the telephone transaction. If the financial account contains sufficient funds then the account provider authorizes the telephone transaction.

The transaction is then performed by the telephone service provider and the appropriate amount that is attributable to the financial account is then debited from one or more of the account balances and or . For example after authorizing the mobile telephone to participate in a phone call the account provider may deduct a fee from a balance of the associated financial account that reflects the number of minutes used by the mobile telephone . For example the amount deducted from the account balance may be determined by multiplying the number of minutes used by a predetermined rate. The deduction of fees may occur in real time i.e during and or after each telephone transaction.

In one embodiment if the account provider determines that insufficient funds are contained within the financial account a message may be provided to the user of the telephone notifying the user of the status of the account and if the inability to perform the requested telephone transaction. For example if the balance of the user s account falls below a predetermined value a warning message may be provided to the user to inform the user that the call to be terminated in a stated amount of time due to lack of funds. The warning message may be audible or visual.

The system may operate under a Signaling System 7 SS7 telecommunications protocol which is used for exchanging information used to set up calls and to control the network including call control database and billing management maintenance functions associated with the mobile telephone use and the like.

The account provider and or the telephone service provider may maintain Call Detail Records CDRs concerning calls made to and from the mobile telephone . The information regarding the CDRs may be updated through an Application Programming Interface API .

As illustrated in in one embodiment of the invention the financial account provider partners with a mobile telephone service provider in order to integrate mobile telephone services into the financial account . The partnership between the financial account provider and the mobile telephone service provider allows the account provider to secure usage access to the mobile telephone service provider s mobile telephone network . By partnering with the mobile telephone network provider in this way the financial account provider is able to operate as a Mobile Virtual Network Operator MVNO allowing clients to access a mobile telephone network without requiring the clients to interact directly with the mobile telephone network provider . Moreover the financial account provider can brand the telephone services and mobile telephone hardware as desired.

Linking the financial account to a telephone as described above may provide useful benefits for users of the system for the account provider and for the telephone service provider . For example the user of the financial account benefits from the convenience of being able to enjoy the advantages of a normal phone service without being required to open a separate telephone account. Furthermore the user of the account is no longer required to pay a separate phone bill or even establish an automatic payment of a separate phone bill because the payment for telephone services used is automatically deducted from a balance of the user s financial account . Clients of the financial account provider are thus able to receive mobile telephone services in conjunction with the diverse financial account services already inherent in the financial account .

The account provider also benefits by having an additional service that may be offered to customers as well as the benefit of retaining the customer s funds used to pay for the telephone service. The mobile telephone network provider benefits from this relationship as well since the financial account provider acting as an MVNO purchases minutes and or services from the mobile telephone network provider which results in higher levels of utilization of the mobile telephone network .

Although one embodiment of the invention includes a financial account provider that operates as an MVNO and provides mobile telephone services linked to a financial account operated within its financial system the identity of the parties that perform various roles in the system can vary as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill the art. For instance the entity that offers mobile telephone services can be different from the financial account provider in which case the mobile telephone service provider would interface and communicate with the financial network of the financial account provider. Alternatively some or all of the functions performed by the financial account provider in the examples presented herein can be instead performed by the mobile telephone network provider.

When a telephone associated with one of the telephone numbers participates in a telephone transaction such as a phone call or data download the service receives a notification of the occurrence of the telephone transaction. The notification may be received on a per telephone transaction basis including continuous updates during the telephone transaction.

The service then deducts an amount from an account balance of the financial account reflecting at least a portion of the value of the telephone transaction. As described previously certain funds within the financial account may be dedicated to the payment of telephone transactions related to telephone numbers associated with the financial account. When the funds dedicated to telephone transactions are depleted additional telephone transactions will not be authorized by the service.

In one embodiment prior to the completion of the telephone transaction the service receives an authorization request from a third party telephone service provider to perform the telephone transaction. Upon receiving the authorization request the service verifies that the financial account contains sufficient funds to perform the telephone transaction. If the account is found to have sufficient funds the service authorizes the telephone transaction.

Referring now to a method is illustrated of providing telephone services. The method may be practiced for example in a computer system containing financial account information. The method identifies a financial account having an account balance. As described previously the financial account is configured for managing financial transactions that are unrelated to telephone transactions.

The method then associates the financial account with at least one telephone number which may identify for example a mobile wireless telephone. The method links a debit component of the financial account to the telephone numbers associated with the financial account. The debit component and the telephone numbers are linked such that when a telephone transaction is performed that relates to the telephone number an appropriate amount is debited from the account balance of the financial account.

Embodiments of the invention include or are incorporated in computer readable media having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Examples of computer readable media include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium capable of storing instructions or data structures and capable of being accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Computer readable media also encompasses combinations of the foregoing structures. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data that cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to execute a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions and associated data structures represent an example of program code means for executing the steps of the invention disclosed herein.

The invention further extends to computer systems adapted for use with methods for tracking financial accounts and the usage of mobile telephone devices and for otherwise maintaining financial transaction data as described herein. Those skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced in computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers multi processor systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention will be described herein in reference to a distributed computing environment such as the Internet where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In the distributed computing environment computer executable instructions and program modules for performing the features of the invention may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The following claims are presented to illustrate various novel features of the present invention. The claims are not exhaustive of the embodiments of the invention nor are they to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention. Moreover the invention disclosed in detail herein can be defined with other claims including those that will be included in any related non provisional applications that will be filed during the pendency of this provisional application.

