---

title: Video call apparatus for mobile communication terminal and method thereof
abstract: A mobile communication terminal, including an input unit configured to receive multimedia data corresponding to an additional service other than an established video call, a controller configured to codec-process the received multimedia data, and a transceiver configured to transmit the multimedia data during the video call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08125507&OS=08125507&RS=08125507
owner: LG Electronics Inc.
number: 08125507
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20060921
---
The present application claims priority to Korean Application Nos. 10 2005 0088983 filed in Korea on Sep. 23 2005 and 10 2006 0040194 filed on May 3 2006 which are herein expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to a mobile communication terminal and corresponding method that allows a user to perform an additional function during a video call.

A mobile communication terminal includes wireless communication functions in addition to a camera function a multimedia playing function etc. Thus mobile terminals now include a digital camera having a high resolution and a color Liquid Crystal Display LCD screen. The camera and multimedia playing functions are becoming more popular because the display apparatus of the terminal is improving and the terminal is communicating via high speed communication techniques.

In addition streaming video audio data is displayed on the color LCD screen of the mobile terminal. Video audio data captured by the camera may also be displayed on the color LCD screen. Further the mobile terminal can also transceive the video audio data captured by the camera in real time which allows users to communicate with each other via a video call service.

However the related art video call mobile communication service is based only on the H.324M protocol. Accordingly the video call service is unable to support any additional service during the video call.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a mobile terminal and corresponding method that allows a user to use another service such as a chat service while a video call is performed.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the present invention as embodied and broadly described herein the present invention provides in one aspect a mobile communication terminal including an input unit configured to receive multimedia data corresponding to an additional service other than an established video call a controller configured to codec process the received multimedia data and a transceiver configured to transmit the multimedia data during the video call.

In another aspect the present invention provides a mobile terminal communication method comprising establishing a video call connection between a first mobile communication terminal and a second mobile communication terminal for a video call and performing an additional service during the video call said additional service corresponding to multimedia data being transmitted between the first and second terminals during the video call.

Further scope of applicability of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However it should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention are given by illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

The present invention advantageously allows the user to use an additional service such as a chat service while simultaneously performing a video call using the H.324M protocol. In more detail is an overview illustrating a system for providing a video call service of a mobile terminal according to an embodiment of the present invention.

As shown the system includes a first and second mobile communication terminals and communicating with each other over a network . The first terminal multiplexes video audio data relevant to a video call service and multimedia data relevant to an additional service and then outputs the multiplexed data to the mobile terminal . The mobile terminal then demultiplexes the received video audio and multimedia data and outputs the demultiplexed data.

Turning next to which is a block diagram illustrating a video call apparatus for a mobile terminal according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown the video call apparatus includes a display unit for displaying video data received from another party s terminal during a video call an input unit for inputting multimedia data to be transmitted a send command when inputting text data during a video call etc. and a memory for storing multimedia data to be transmitted or video data transceived during a video call. The apparatus also includes a multiplexer for multiplexing the multimedia data and video data a transceiver for transceiving the multiplexed data or transceiving video data during a video call and a controller for controlling an overall operation of the video call service.

Thus with reference to when a user wants to transmit a text message or multimedia data to another party s terminal during an ongoing video call the user enters the text message or multimedia data using the input unit . The multimedia data includes audio data video data text data etc. In addition when the data to be transmitted is audio data the audio data is processed by an audio codec AMR processor or G.723.1 processor. Then the processed audio data is multiplexed by an H.223 multiplexer thus to be transmitted to another party s terminal.

In addition when the data to be transmitted is video data the video data is processed by a video codec H.263 processor or an MPEG4 processor. Then the processed video data is multiplexed by an H.223 multiplexer thus to be transmitted to the other party s terminal. In addition the controller may include a T.120 processor for processing data for a multiplex conference and or a module or an additional device for processing transmitted video audio or text data in accordance with each protocol etc. In addition when a command for controlling the other party s terminal such as a vibration mode control command a key pad control command etc. is input via the input unit the command is included in the multimedia data and transmitted to the other party s terminal via an H.245 protocol module.

Next is a flow diagram illustrating a method for establishing a video call between two mobile communication terminals i.e. first and second terminals and according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown a call connection is first established by the terminal issuing a connect request to the terminal and the terminal acknowledging the request S . Accordingly a call connection is established between the first and second terminals and . Then the first and second terminals and send a vendor ID VID message to each other S . The VID includes a nation code a manufacturing company code a model name a version etc.

Next the first and second terminals and perform an H.245 negotiation process S . For example and as shown in step S the first and second terminals and perform a negotiation process to determine which terminal is the master terminal and which is the slave terminal by exchanging a Master Slave Determination message and to determine an video audio processing capabilities of each terminal by exchanging a Terminal Capacity Set message. The negotiation process also includes transmitting a Multiplex Entry Send message an Open Logical Channel Audio message to assign a logical channel and an Open Logical Channel Video message to open the logical channel.

After the Logical Channel is opened in step S the first terminal requests a chat service with the second terminal and the second terminal responds to the request such that the first and second terminals and can perform a chat service during a video call S . However when a response from the second terminal is not received within a certain time for example 6 seconds or a no allowance message for a chat service is received from the second terminal the first terminal informs the user of the first terminal about the error by outputting a message on a display unit to a speaker etc.

Then the first terminal transmits the video audio data to the second terminal through an H.233 multiplexer based on the negotiated control information S . Then the second terminal demultiplexes the received video audio data through an H.233 demultiplexer and outputs the data. That is the first terminal performs a video call with the second terminal .

Turning next to which is a block diagram illustrating the H.324M protocol for providing a video call service of a mobile terminal according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown the mobile terminal processes video data relevant to video call service by a video codec H.263 or an MPEG4 processor and processes audio data by an audio codec an Adaptive Multi Rate AMR or G.723.1 processor. The processed data is then multiplexed by an H.223 multiplexer and the data is output to a modem interface.

Thus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the mobile terminal can send and receive not only control information but also multimedia information relevant to an additional service during a video call using the H.245 protocol. Further as shown in the mobile may also include a T.120 processor to process data for a multiplex conference. A Control Channel Segmentation and Re assembly CCSRL is also provided to enable a stable exchange of an H.245 message between the first and second terminals as an implementation of a Segmentation And Re assembly SAR of a control frame defined by an H.324 Attachment C. The terminal also includes an NSRP command for packing the CCSRL segment into a maximum size of 2048 octets.

Next is a block diagram illustrating a multimedia application layer for transceiving multimedia data during a video call according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown an audio encoder encodes audio data such as a live voice signal input into a microphone during a video call a recorded voice stored in the terminal before the video call is performed music transmitted from a terminal manufacturing company or downloaded through the Internet and audio data such as a melody. The encoded data is received and processed in a User Data Layer of the protocol stack.

In addition a video encoder encodes video data such as video data captured in real time by a camera during a video call video data transmitted from a terminal manufacturing company or video data previously captured by a user using a camcorder function an image captured by the camera and video data such as an animation. The encoded data is also received and processed in the User Data Layer of the protocol stack. Further the User Data layer also processes text data and a control signal for controlling the other party s terminal such as a vibration mode control a key pad control etc. using a User Data block based on the H.245 protocol.

In addition as shown in the data encoded by the audio video encoder generates an AL Protocol Data Unit PDU using the H.223 Adaptation Layer 2 AL 2 or AL3 and generates an AL PDU using the H.223 Adaption Layer AL1 for an H.245 control signal. Further each AL PDUs is multiplexed at the H.223 Multiplex Layer to generate a bit stream that is transmitted to a wireless network through a WCDMA modem.

Accordingly audio data video data and text data can be transmitted in real time to another party s terminal during a video call. Further recorded video or audio data can be transmitted to another party s terminal when a response for a received call is not performed within a certain time during a video call. Also previously input text stored music stored video data or an avatar can be transmitted to another party s terminal during a video call.

Turning now to which is a block diagram illustrating an Application Programming Interface API structure for sending and receiving multimedia data during a video call according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown the API structure is based on 3G 324M software for a multimedia video chat. In addition APIs for data input during a video call are defined and data is sent and received via APIs of relevant layers. Audio video data is processed through Audio Video codec APIs and a control signal is processed through H.245 APIs. Also call setup APIs call H.245 and H223 Multiplexer APIs.

Next is a block diagram showing a system for providing a video call service of a mobile communication terminal through different mobile communication networks according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown the system includes the first mobile communication terminal communicating with the second mobile communication terminal over a multimedia gateway . The first terminal multiplexes and outputs video audio data relevant to a video call service and multimedia data relevant to an additional service. Further the first terminal uses a first video call service specification.

In addition the second terminal demultiplexes the converted data and uses a second video call service specification. The multimedia gateway converts data output based on the first video call service specification into a format corresponding to the second video call service specification. As shown the multimedia gateway includes a transcoding unit for converting the video audio data by a corresponding video audio codec and a protocol conversion unit for converting a message having the multimedia data into a corresponding message format.

An operation of the system for providing a video call of a mobile communication terminal through different mobile communication networks according to the present invention will now be explained in detail with reference to . First the first terminal multiplexes and outputs video audio data relevant to a video call service and multimedia data relevant to an additional service based on the first video call service specification. Then the multimedia gateway converts the output data based on the first video call service specification into a format corresponding to the second video call service specification.

That is the media transcoding unit converts the video audio data using a corresponding video audio codec and the protocol conversion unit converts a message including the multimedia data into a corresponding message format. The second communication terminal then demultiplexes the converted data based on the second video call service specification and outputs the converted data. Accordingly the second communication terminal can implement a video call service based on the video audio data and can implement an additional service based on the multimedia data.

Turning now to which is an overview illustrating a format of multimedia data transceived during a video call according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown the data format is divided into a Header portion and a Data portion. The Header portion includes a Version Information filed representing a current version of a data format a Size in Byte field representing a size of a Byte unit including the Header portion and the Data portion a Data Type field representing a type of data to be transceived a 1 bit Resource field representing whether or not a standard resource for current data can be used a Data Coding Scheme field representing information relevant to a data coding e.g. KSC 5601 or UTF8 ASCII a Compression Method field using the last 2 bits of an octet for compression or coding a Sequence Number field representing a generation order of a message to be transceived and Reserved Bits field allocated to provide an expandability and a characteristic capability for a manufacturing company. In addition the Data portion represents a data value input by a user through a User Interface and has a data value encoded using a KSC5601 coded process when a Korean WCDMA terminal is used. When using on American WCDMA terminal the data value is encoded using the appropriate coded process.

Next is a flowchart illustrating a method for providing a video call service for a mobile communication terminal according to an embodiment of the present invention. As shown the method includes determining if a video call service is to be started S and when the video call service is to be started Yes in S establishing a call connection between a first mobile communication terminal and a second mobile communication terminal S . Next the first and second terminals exchange a Vendor ID message using the H.245 standard S . In this example it is assumed the first terminal is transmitting and the second terminal is receiving.

In addition as noted above the Vendor ID message includes a nation code a manufacturing company code a model name version information etc. When the first and second terminals have completed the process of exchanging the Vendor ID message a call connection is performed between the first and second terminals and the video call is started S . Then the method determines if the first user wants to transmit multimedia data in addition to the voice call S . If the user wants to send multimedia data Yes in S the first mobile terminal transmits an index of multimedia data to be transmitted to the second mobile terminal S . In addition as discussed above the multimedia data includes data such as audio data video data text data etc.

The second terminal then receives the transmitted index S and the first terminal inputs multiplexes and transmits the multimedia data using the H.233 multiplexer to the second terminal S and S . When the data to be transmitted is video data the video data is processed using an H.263 or an MPEG 4 processor and then input into the H.233 multiplexer. When the data to be transmitted is audio data the audio data is processed using an AMR or G.723.1 processor and then input into the multiplexer. The method also determines if more multimedia data is to be transmitted to the second terminal S . When more multimedia data is to be transmitted Yes in S the method returns to step S. Otherwise the additional service is completed.

In addition the second terminal receives the multimedia data during a video call and determines whether an additional service for replaying the received data is required. Also the transmitted multimedia index can be added to the Vendor ID exchange process in step S or as discussed above can be transmitted during step S. Further the index includes not only an index of multimedia to be transmitted but also an index version between the first and second terminals.

Also the additional service may be transmitting text data during a video call service transmitting video audio and text data for an automatic response service transmitting audio data for a background music service transmitting video data for a substitute video service and or transmitting a preset code or symbol data for a bi directional system control service. Further the additional service is not limited to a video chat service an automatic response service a background music service and a substitute video service etc and can also include a service capable of enhancing a user s convenience without influencing the quality of a video call service.

When the additional service is selected the first terminal inputs multimedia data relevant to the additional service to the H.233 multiplexer and processes multimedia data relevant to the additional service using the H.245 protocol. Then the first terminal inputs the processed multimedia data to the H.233 multiplexer through the Control Channel Segmentation and Re assembly Layer CCSRL and the Numbered Simple Retransmission Protocol NSRP . The H.233 multiplexer multiplexes the input video audio data and the input multimedia data to generate one bit stream and transmits the generated bit stream to the second terminal through the mobile communication network.

Thus according to an embodiment of the present invention a video call be provided through a same communication network and also through different communication networks. In addition multimedia data relevant to an additional service is transmitting and received in real time while a video call service is performed using the H.324M protocol. Accordingly an additional protocol is not required thereby enhancing the user s convenience during the video call. Also the additional service such as a video chat service may be used simultaneously during the video call.

As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof it should also be understood that the above described embodiments are not limited by any of the details of the foregoing description unless otherwise specified but rather should be construed broadly within its spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims and therefore all changes and modifications that fall within the metes and bounds of the claims or equivalents of such metes and bounds are therefore intended to be embraced by the appended claims.

