---

title: Spectrum management in dynamic spectrum access wireless systems
abstract: A plurality of MAC/PHY stacks is adapted to support wireless devices. A superframe structure includes a preamble and a superframe initialization header.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137805&OS=09137805&RS=09137805
owner: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS N.V.
number: 09137805
owner_city: Eindhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20060914
---
The present application is related to concurrently filed and commonly assigned U.S. patent applications having Ser. Nos. 60 733 519 60 733 504 and 60 733 520. The present application is also related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 718 127 filed on Sep. 16 2005.

Wireless communication technology has significantly advanced making the wireless medium a viable alternative to wired solutions. As such the use of wireless connectivity in data and voice communications continues to increase. These devices include mobile telephones portable computers in wireless networks e.g. wireless local area networks WLANS stationary computers in wireless networks portable handsets to name only a few .

As wireless applications continue to grow so do the numbers of devices networks and systems vying for the communications spectrum. As is known there are dedicated or licensed portions as well as unlicensed portions of the communications spectrum. Because the unlicensed bands of the spectrum e.g. the industrial scientific and medical ISM radio bands may be accessed freely these bands tend to be heavily populated by users. Contrastingly recent studies indicate that only a small portion of the licensed band is being used. Thus much of the unlicensed band is overcrowded while a relatively large portion of the licensed band remains unused. This had lead regulatory bodies e.g. the Federal Communications Commission FCC of the U.S. to an evaluation of current communication band allocations and their use.

One option for reallocation of the communications band involves the use of wireless networks adapted to dynamically access the communications spectrum. For example dynamic spectrum access DSA wireless networks may be implemented in dedicated licensed portions of the communications spectrum. Illustratively DSA wireless networks may operate in a spectrum normally dedicated for television transmission and reception. Thereby certain portions of the communications band may be more fully utilized.

With the reallocation of certain communication bands for use by unlicensed secondary users spectrum management is needed to ensure that licensed primary or incumbent users with priority access to the band are provided this access in an unfettered manner. For example regulatory bodies e.g. the FCC may require that a secondary user vacate a channel in a relatively short period of time after an incumbent user begins occupation of the channel. Therefore the medium access control MAC layer and physical PHY layer specifications must include provisions directed to this needed spectrum management.

Often the channels available for use by secondary wireless station are not contiguous. Moreover channel availability in DSA systems changes over time. Thus not only are channels in a sub spectrum not contiguous but also those channels that are available and those channels that are occupied by incumbent devices changes over time.

The dynamic and non contiguous nature of the channels poses significant problems to the infrastructure of known DSA wireless systems. To this end because the channels are not contiguous it is currently very challenging to provide a viable PHY layer that can support multiple non contiguous channels. For example because transmission is required in some channels and not in others neighboring or nearby channels sophisticated filtering is required. However this type of selective filtering is problematic and is exacerbated due to the dynamic nature of the channel availability.

In addition to the difficulty of providing a PHY layer that can support multiple dynamic non contiguous channels known MAC layers are also ill equipped to support the DSA wireless systems. For example in known existing wireless systems a BS will transmit a preamble over a number of channels. However secondary devices make in band measurements in a single channel and may not receive the preamble from the BS when this spans multiple channels. Thus the STA may determine that the BS is not transmitting in its channel when in fact the BS is occupying the channel and other channels as well. As can be appreciated this can reduce the efficiency of the wireless system as well as reduce the QoS of the wireless devices.

What is needed therefore is an apparatus and a method of wireless communication that overcomes at least the referenced shortcomings.

In accordance with an example embodiment a wireless communication network includes a base station having a plurality of medium access control MAC and physical PHY layer stacks and a spectrum manager adapted to assign each of the stacks to a respective one available restricted frequency channel or to a respective a set of contiguous available restricted frequency channels among at least one unavailable restricted frequency channel.

In accordance with another example embodiment in a wireless communication system a method of wireless communication includes providing a base station having a plurality of medium access control MAC and physical PHY layer stacks and assigning each of the stacks to a respective one available restricted frequency channel or to a respective a set of contiguous available restricted frequency channels among at least one unavailable restricted frequency channel.

In a wireless communication system a method of wireless communication includes transmitting a preamble field and a superframe initialization header SIH field in parallel to each of a plurality of restricted channels occupied by a base station and synchronizing a secondary wireless station STA after receiving the preamble and SIH at the STA.

In yet another example embodiment a data communication in a plurality of restricted channels includes a superframe having a preamble field and a superframe initialization header SIH field wherein the SIH field includes information of the restricted channels occupied by a base station.

As used herein the term restricted frequency channel or restricted channel means a frequency channel dedicated for use by primary users. The restricted channels may be portions of the communications spectrum licensed by a regulatory body such as the FCC or that are accessed on a priority basis by certain users. For example the television channels in the United States are licensed frequency channels. However certain device such as wireless microphones may access the network with priority over other users even though the wireless microphones are not expressly licensed for use of the television spectrum. Thus certain unlicensed channels that are restricted channels are contemplated as restricted channels. In addition so called licensed exempt channels which provide priority access to certain users are also restricted channels.

In the following detailed description for purposes of explanation and not limitation example embodiments disclosing specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present teachings. However it will be apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art having had the benefit of the present disclosure that other embodiments that depart from the specific details disclosed herein. Moreover descriptions of well known devices methods systems and protocols may be omitted so as to not obscure the description of the example embodiments. Nonetheless such devices methods systems and protocols that are within the purview of one of ordinary skill in the art may be used in accordance with the example embodiments. Finally wherever practical like reference numerals refer to like features.

It is noted that in the illustrative embodiments described herein the network may be a wireless network with a centralized architecture or a decentralized architecture. Illustratively the network may be one which functions under a DSA Medium Access MAC layer such as to be defined under IEEE 802.22 or as defined under IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.11 or as defined under IEEE 802.15. Moreover the network may be a cellular network a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN or a wireless regional area network WRAN . Furthermore the MAC protocol may be a time division multiple access TDMA protocol a carrier sense multiple access CSMA protocol a CSMA with collision avoidance CSMA CA protocol a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocol or a frequency division multiple access FDMA protocol. It is emphasized that the noted networks and protocols are merely illustrative and that networks and protocols other than those specifically mentioned may be used without departing from the present teachings.

The wireless network includes an access point AP which is also referred to as a base station BS . The wireless network further comprises a plurality of wireless stations STAs which also may be referred to as wireless devices or as Customer Premise Equipment CPE . Furthermore there may be a neighboring wireless network comprising a BS and a plurality of STAs .

The neighboring wireless network and its component devices are substantially identical to the system . In certain embodiments as described in greater detail herein the channel occupancy of the first network and the channel occupancy of the second network may result in non contiguous channels being available to one of the networks and thus not to the other. Furthermore occupation by incumbent devices may also result in non contiguous channels being unavailable to the networks .

Illustratively the wireless networks may be one of the types of networks noted previously. In general the STAs are not necessarily the same. In fact a plethora of different types of STAs adapted to function under the chosen protocol may be used within the network . Moreover the STAs may be computers mobile telephones personal digital assistants PDA or similar device that typically operates in such networks. In a specific embodiment at least one of the STAs is stationary.

It is contemplated that the STAs are adapted to function in restricted frequency channels of a frequency band that requires protection of incumbent users. As such the base stations and the STAs are secondary devices and the networks are secondary networks. Often for simplicity restricted frequency channels and restricted channels may be referred to as channels. 

It is noted that only a few STAs are shown this is merely for simplicity of discussion. Clearly many other STAs may be used. In addition in the interest of simplicity of discussion the description of the example embodiments will concentrate on the components of the wireless network . Of course the details described will also apply to the network .

The DSA MAC PHY layer methods and apparati of the example embodiments may be implemented in dynamic environments where the availability and quality of channels vary over time e.g. new wireless technologies designed for the TV bands . Thus the network of secondary STAs of the example embodiments beneficially obtain channel availability in a dynamic manner and beneficially notify other secondary STAs of the occupation or future occupation of a channel by an incumbent device. Accordingly the DSA MAC layer methods and apparati of the illustrative embodiments provide spectrum access instructions to the secondary STAs . Beneficially the spectrum access instructions foster unfettered use of restricted channels bands by the incumbent devices and access to restricted channels bands by the secondary STAs.

The stacks are lower layers of the architecture and support upper layers such as a convergence sublayer bridge and higher layers . Illustratively the convergence sublayer bridge is as provided by IEEE 802.1d and the higher layers include an internet protocol IP layer and an asynchronous transfer mode ATM layer for example.

The plurality of stacks are coupled to a spectrum manager . In a specific embodiment the spectrum manager may be implemented in a programmable logic device or in custom hardware or software or a combination thereof. The implementation of the spectrum manager may also be combined with the implementation of the other blocks of the architecture using a single or multiple programmable devices or customized hardware or software units or a combination thereof.

Because incumbent devices service must be protected from interference from the secondary STAs operating in the network the availability of channels for occupation by the secondary STAs changes over time. To this end as incumbent devices begin and terminate occupation of restricted channels in the wireless network restricted channels become unavailable and become available respectively for occupation the secondary STAs . In order to protect the incumbent devices and provide service to the secondary STAs the spectrum manager of the example embodiments dynamically assigns the stacks to respective groups of contiguous channels and indirectly assigns the stacks to certain wireless STAs occupying those channels.

Notably portions of the frequency spectrum between a restricted channel occupied by a secondary STA and a restricted channel occupied by an incumbent device may remain unavailable or unused. These portions between the channels in use by the secondary networks and those in use by the incumbent service usefully prevents signal cross talk or overlap that can cause interference. The requirements of the spacing are often set by a regulatory body such as the FCC.

In order for the channels to be allocated properly to respective MAC PHY layers the spectrum manager must garner information related to channel availability and information regarding the secondary STAs . Based on this information the spectrum manager determines which MAC PHY layers of the BS to assign to respective contiguous channels.

In an example embodiment data is garnered from in band and out of band measurements by the STAs by methods described in co pending and cross reference U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 733 504 entitled Notification of Incumbent Users in Dynamic Spectrum Access Wireless Systems the disclosure of which is specifically incorporated herein by reference. From the measurements the BS can determine which channels are available for occupation by STAs and which channels are not available.

Information is transferred between the spectrum manager and the plurality of MAC PHY layers through a well defined interface such as service primitives application programming interfaces API or both. Information including but not limited to channel availability the number of STAs associated with each MAC PHY layer the traffic load in each of the MAC PHY layers the quality of service QoS required and transmit power constraints in each MAC PHY layers can be provided to the spectrum manager and used by the spectrum manager to allocate channels to respective MAC PHY layers .

Along with information such as the channel availability the spectrum manager may assign channels to the various MAC PHY stack based on several criteria. For example the spectrum manager may take into account the number of STAs associated to each stack. In addition the spectrum manager may take into account the traffic requirements of the STAs. Based on these types of criteria the spectrum manager may assign more or fewer contiguous channels to a particular stack to ensure suitable capacity for the needs of the STAs . In addition range information of the STAs may be taken into account in the allocation process. For example lower frequency channels that have better propagation characteristics over distance could be assigned to the stack assigned to STAs that are located at a greater distance from the BS .

The assignment of contiguous channels to a MAC PHY stack is effected via algorithms within the spectrum manager. In addition to allocating the MAC PHY stacks to respective channels the spectrum manager algorithmically determines the allocation to foster efficient coexistence amongst the MAC PHY stacks . For example provided sufficient bandwidth is available via the channels the spectrum manager may assign the available channels in such a way as to minimize interference amongst the stacks. To wit the assignment may substantially prevent co channel assignment to a MAC PHY and may substantially avoid adjacent channel assignment. Moreover if the number of available channels is smaller than the number of stacks spectrum manager algorithmically allocates channels to the stacks for specified time intervals. To this end the spectrum manager may provide one MAC PHY stack access a channel or set of contiguous channels for a set time in a communication frame and provide another MAC PHY stack access to the same channel or set of contiguous channels for another period of time in the frame. Beneficially therefore the spectrum manager allows several MAC PHY stacks to share a single frequency channel or set of contiguous channels in a time division manner. Of course if special types of antenna systems e.g. directional or beam forming antenna systems are employed the same set of frequency channels may be assigned to different MAC PHY stacks and interference protection is provided in space by the antenna system.

Among other benefits the architecture provides options for low complexity higher capacity and scalable implementations. The relatively low complexity is achieved by providing a user the option to select the number of MAC PHY stacks that are needed to support the network. If a single stack system is selected the need for the spectrum manager is greatly simplified as all the resources can be freely used. More stacks can be included to increase capacity and hence the role of the spectrum manager is useful in orchestrating the reuse of the spectrum amongst the various stacks. Accordingly scalability is easily accommodated by this architecture by allowing multiple stacks to be progressively incorporated as demand increases and removed or deactivated as demand decreases.

Another aspect of the example embodiments of the present teachings includes informing the STAs of the wireless network of those restricted channels that are available. For example an STA may be dormant for a period of time and powers up during a frame. Because the BS transmits in a plurality of channels it may be difficult for the STA to determine which channel s that the BS is occupying and therefore which channels are available for use. Returning to when the dormant STA powers up and begins scanning channels for the BS the STA will readily determine that the BS is not occupying the restricted channels in use by the incumbent devices or the restricted channels occupied by the neighboring network . However because the BS is transmitting across more than one contiguous channel e.g a total of three channels assigned to MAC PHY stack and two channels assigned to MAC PHY stack the STA may not be able to readily ascertain the occupation of the BS in these channels. To this end the BS transmits preambles across multiple contiguous channels while the STA will always scan on a single channel basis. As because the BS transmits preambles across multiple contiguous channels the STA may not be able to detect the preamble and synchronize to it. Given the dynamics of the environments and the time varying availability of restricted channels it is exceedingly difficult for an STA to determine in advance how many contiguous channels are being used by a BS .

To address this issue and ensure suitable notification of the occupation of the restricted channels by the BS a superframe structure is provided according to an example embodiment. shows a series of superframes transmitted over time. The components of an nsuperframe are shown to illustrate the salient features of the superframe structure. Naturally the other superframes include such features as well.

The superframe includes a preamble and a superframe initialization header SIH as the first two fields in the superframe . The superframe also includes a plurality of frames described in greater detail in the above referenced applications.

In the example embodiments the transmission scheme may be orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM . The superframe structure described presently includes a method based on OFDM that allows the BS to establish communication with one of the STAs in an environment characterized by time varying availability of the restricted channels. To this end the preamble and the SIH are transmitted through a select few or all of the currently available restricted channels in use by the MAC PHY stack s of the BS in parallel. Stated differently consider available restricted frequency channels and . The preamble and SIH are transmitted in each of these channels at the commencement of the superframe. Thereafter communications are carried out over the frames .

The transmission of the preamble and the SIH beneficially allows STAs wanting to join the network e.g. by powering up or otherwise entering the network efficiently. In particular when an STA powers up or otherwise enters the network the STA scans the channels searching for the BS . Because the preamble and SIH are transmitted in parallel to each channel in use by the BS e.g. channels if the STA receives the preamble and SIH through its scans of any one of the channels the STA joining the network will be apprised of multiple information including which channels are being occupied by the BS . Moreover the preamble and SIH may include the information of which contiguous channels are being supported by a particular MAC PHY stack.

After garnering the information on the channels in which the BS is occupying the STA is able to synchronize to the network. This synchronization includes but is not limited to adjusting the transmission and reception frequencies of the transmission and reception equipment e.g. RF equipment of the STA to those of the available channels .

Among other information the SIH may include but is not limited to channels occupied by the BS the number of frames per superframe the duration of each frame the next scheduled quiet period the quiet period duration the BS transmit power the BS location information.

Notably if an STA attempts to join the network after the termination of the transmission of the SIH the STA will be unaware of the needed information regarding the network. This will require the STA to remain quiet and continue to scan the communications spectrum. At the commencement of the next superframe e.g. superframe the preamble and SIH are again transmitted in parallel. At this point the STA may join the network .

As described previously and in the related applications noted above the availability of restricted channels to secondary STAs of the network varies over time. Accordingly while channels are available at the beginning of the superframe these channels may not be available in the next superframe or may become unavailable during the superframe . As a result the preamble and SIH are changed by the MAC PHY layer s of the BS dynamically to include those channels in which the BS is occupying during the next superframe . Naturally unavailable restricted channels e.g. channels may become available during the superframe and the preamble and SIH will be updated to include this information if the BS decides to occupy these channels.

According to example embodiments contiguous channels among a spectrum of non contiguous channels are assigned to respective MAC PHY stacks . These contiguous channels are bonded together for use by the STAs of the network . The superframe structure of the example embodiments is useful in providing access by secondary STAs to multiple restricted channels bonded together e.g. TV channels . Illustratively wireless networks of the example embodiments are adapted to operate in the VHF and or UHF TV bands using the MAC PHY stack assignment and superframes described. In the United States and some other countries where the TV channelization is 6 MHz the superframe could be employed to efficiently bond 6 MHz one channel 12 MHz two channels and 18 MHz three channels and so on. Thus the parallel communication of the preamble and the SIH fosters efficient use of the bonded channels to STAs entering the network.

Beneficially superframe structure of the example embodiments is adapted to allow STAs to quickly associate with each other by dynamically controlling the frequency with which the preamble and SIH are transmitted. The more frequently the preamble and SIH are transmitted the more quickly other stations can find the network. This improvement must be weighed against possible performance degradation created as the preamble and SIH must be transmitted in each channel.

In view of this disclosure it is noted that the various methods and devices described herein can be implemented in hardware and software. Further the various methods and parameters are included by way of example only and not in any limiting sense. In view of this disclosure those skilled in the art can implement the present teachings in determining their own techniques and needed equipment to effect these techniques while remaining within the scope of the appended claims.

