---

title: Managed content delivery via web services
abstract: Providing access to manage content via a web service is disclosed. A business object that includes a method configured to access a content item comprising a body of managed content is received. The business object is processed to project as a web service a content management functionality associated with the object, including by exposing a method of the business object as a web service operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536244&OS=09536244&RS=09536244
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09536244
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060508
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 787 445 entitled Managed Content Delivery Via Web Services filed Mar. 30 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Content management systems provide content management services with respect to a body of content enabling a user to store access and manage content check in check out version etc. to define and enforce access restrictions retention and other policies and to define and automate content lifecycles business processing etc. In some cases a user person interacts with a content management system e.g. through a web based or other application configured to access and or store content associated with the content management system.

Content management systems have been provided that include development kits that enable users third party developers and or developers associated with the content management system vendor to develop quickly and deploy custom software components configured to perform custom content management and or other operations with respect to content stored on a content management system. However access to managed content via such components typically is via an application programming interface API or other interface associated with the content management system and or its vendor. It would be beneficial to enable the functionality of such custom components as well as standard or base components provided by a content management system vendor to be access through other e.g. standards based interfaces such as by exposing such functionality as a web service.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium or a computer network wherein program instructions are sent over optical or electronic communication links. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. A component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task includes both a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Projecting as a web service content management functionality not originally developed as a web service is disclosed. In some embodiments a definition of a content management function such as a business object class or other software component is received. In some embodiments a business object class is registered and initially stored at a repository comprising the content management system. The business object class is transformed to generate and project a web service configured to provide the content management functionality provided by and or via the business object class. Methods of the business object class that require content to be retrieved from a repository in some embodiments are exposed as web service operations that achieve the same result. In some embodiments methods that require content to be retrieved from a requesting client of a content management system e.g. client host computer client application application server etc. e.g. to enable some processing or other manipulation of such content to be performed are obtained from the client via the content management system e.g. a content management client agent on the requesting client. In some embodiments the content management system includes a distributed content framework and content is provided to and or obtained from a client from which a web services operation request is received by selecting and using a content server that is near the requesting client when possible.

In some embodiments however there may be a desire to expose as a web service content management functionality not developed originally as a web service. A web service is network based service that supports interoperable computer to computer interaction over a network such as the Internet. A web service has an interface that is described in a standards based format such as WSDL that enable other systems to learn the web service s interface including such information as the operations available and the syntax to be used name arguments etc. to invoke such operations. Other systems interact with the web service in a manner prescribed by its interface using messages which may be enclosed in a SOAP envelope or follow a REST approach. These messages are typically conveyed using HTTP or another protocol and normally comprise XML in conjunction with other web related standards. Software applications written in various programming languages and running on various platforms can use web services to exchange data over computer networks like the Internet in a manner similar to inter process communication on a single computer. A content management system user may desire to expose functionality of the content management system as a web service e.g. to take advantage of the platform interoperability machine to machine interactions and or other characteristics and or features available in the web services paradigm.

In the example shown in at an indication is received that the business object class received at is desired to be exposed or to be available to later be exposed as a web service. At the business object class definition is parsed and transformed to generate code configured to project the functionality of the business object class as a web service. In some embodiments includes generating based on the business object class and or intermediate or other data generated during the parsing and or transformation process one or more web services operations each configured to provide as a web services operation the functionality of a corresponding method of the business object class. In some embodiments includes generating a WSDL or other standards based description of the generated web service to enable client applications systems or other users desiring to use the web service to learn the functionality operations interfaces and or syntax of the web service. In some embodiments includes generating code configured to map strings e.g. arguments of operations or other calls of the web service to content items such as files and or file system paths of which a web service has no native understanding. In some embodiments includes configuring a web server or other server to provide the web service. In some embodiments the web service code generated at is stored and later deployed e.g. on a web server in response to a request such as an explicit request to expose associated functionality as a web service or an implicit request e.g. an explicit request to perform some other and or related function that requires that the web service be made available and or used.

The examples shown in are provided by way of example. The approaches described herein may be used to project as a web service any content management function that requires that content be accessed stored and or otherwise managed. Further examples include writing content residing on a client application system to a managed content repository and managing content in a distributed content environment and or framework as described more fully below.

Projecting a content management function as a web service in a distributed managed content environment and or framework is disclosed. An example of a distributed managed content environment and or framework is one in which two or more content servers and or other storage systems are used to store a body of managed content. In some embodiments the two or more systems and or content stored on them comprise a single repository. In some embodiments the two or more systems and or associated content comprise two or more federated repositories. In some embodiments content is and or may be mirrored i.e. stored on two or more systems. Requests to retrieve content are serviced in some embodiments by providing the content from a content server that is nearer to the requestor in some sense geographic region distance connection speed etc. than some other content server from which the content also is or could be made available. In some embodiments content server of comprises one of a plurality of content servers comprising a distributed body of managed content. In some embodiments web services server is configured to select e.g. based on factors such as which content servers have a needed content item which of the content servers able to serve a request is nearest to a host that needs the content and or desires to upload a content item to the repository etc. a content server to perform the content management tasks associated with a content management function projected as a web service. In some embodiments the web services server communicates with a master content server that in turn may delegate one or more tasks to a content server nearer to the requesting host than the master is.

In some embodiments content in alternate content system is accessible via web services server and contains files objects metadata or other data that may or may not also be contained in content system . In some embodiments a copy of at least a portion of the content stored on content system is stored on alternate content system e.g. by mirroring content stored on content system and or another content store associated with web services server to alternate content system . In various embodiments content is mirrored to alternate content system periodically as changes to data store on content system occur and or as particular content and or updates are requested from and or directed to be served by alternate content system . In some embodiments alternate content system is one of a plurality of alternate content systems comprising a distributed content management framework or system. In various embodiments a content system is selected from among a plurality of content systems comprising content system alternate content system and or one or more other alternate content systems not shown in to service a particular request. In various embodiments a content system is selected to interact with client application system or determined to be preferred over one or more other content systems based on criteria such as one or more of the following distance from client application system bandwidth available for communication between client application system and the selected content system speed of access between client application system and the selected content system and or any other relevant metric. In some embodiments a locator or a prioritized list of locators e.g. a locator for each of two or more content systems capable of servicing the request usable to read content from or write store content to one or more content systems is provided to client application system by web services server based at least in part on information including for example candidate file s or object s location s distances from remote system of respective content systems bandwidth access to content system s and candidate file s or object s attributes e.g. encryption and or compression characteristics received from content system .

In some embodiments client application system is one of a plurality of hosts able to access web services server via networks and or . In some embodiments content system and or alternate content system are implemented in one or more physical computer systems each of which includes one or more storage devices. In some embodiments for at least some requests e.g. for objects larger than a threshold size web services server is configured to obtain from content system and or alternative content system and the content system is configured to provide data required by web services server to form a URL or other identifier locator etc. to be provided by web services server to client application system to enable client application system to obtain requested content directly from content system and or alternate content system as applicable. In some embodiments as described above a client or agent running on the client application system interacts with a content system to read write content directly from to the content system.

In some embodiments system spawns client to receive the content locator and or prioritized list of locators and obtain the content from the content system and or a first available one of the content systems associated with the respective locators in the prioritized list using the content locator. Client also handles errors picks up data transfers from where they left off after an interruption and retrieves content from a different e.g. backup secondary etc. content system if the original system is no longer available to transfer content. In addition client takes care of handshaking e.g. mutual authentication between the web services server and system as well as the content system and the system . Client manages the location that data is transferred to and from including the relevant folder locations the file and or object names how to display the folders and any differences required due to operating system conventions e.g. different naming protocols etc. . In some embodiments client handles a digital signature or other type of security that allows verification of the interaction between system and the web services server and between the between system and the content system. In various embodiments client handles compression or decompression and or encryption or decryption of the transferred content as appropriate. In some embodiments client reverts to the transfer of content through the web services server in the event that it is not possible for file structure access or any other reason to transfer content directly to or from the content system.

In some embodiments content server interface comprises a framework for managing content for web or other applications running on web services server . In some embodiments content server interface comprises classes of content management objects that web services engine may be configured to invoke as required e.g. in a manner specified in an API application programming interface or other specification or definition to accomplish content management related tasks such as storing tracking finding retrieving associating metadata with and otherwise managing stored content. In some embodiments content system server includes an API and or a library that provides an API to the content server. In some embodiments content server interface comprise software code executed by one or more processors associated with web services server .

Accelerated content server is accessed directly from a network through communication interface so that files can be directly read from and written to content store by a remote system. In some embodiments direct access of a content system by a remote system through a network improves performance by avoiding indirect data transfers such as through a web services or other application server. In some embodiments a content management system and or other master node manages content stored in a distributed e.g. at least partly redundant manner in content system and one or more other content system s e.g. by files or other stored objects are kept in appropriate states e.g. up to date copies of files are kept in the content system and alternate content system s tracking and controlling versions across content systems checking files in out etc. In various embodiments content system is implemented using multiple computer systems one computer system or any other appropriate hardware and software systems including data storage devices such as magnetic hard drives tape drives semiconductor memory devices optical data storage devices or any mass or other storage device.

In some embodiments metadata database contains metadata information about the content in content store and content in one or more alternate content stores. Examples of metadata include when and by whom documents were created modified edited reviewed and approved keywords related to documents version data routing and collaboration data date time the content was created modified etc. and data associating two or more stored objects with each other e.g. to create and manage a virtual document or object. In various embodiments metadata also include information about distances between remote systems and alternate content systems or any other relevant metric that may affect the selection or prioritized listing of alternate content systems that are interacted with by a remote system in response to a content request. In various embodiments keywords in metadata database are entered by the creator editor modifier or approver of the document or by an automatic process or engine that scans the document to extract or identify relevant keywords such as by using natural language or other linguistic technologies to identify key concepts based on the words comprising the document.

In some embodiments content server maintains a file system or other hierarchical organization or view of content in content store and accelerated content server has no file system of its own and instead uses the file system of content server to read write content from to content store . In some embodiments accelerated content server comprises a web server.

In some embodiments content server has information regarding files documents or objects that have been transferred out of content store and or alternate content stores i.e. objects that have been checked out for editing or other use by a user enabling management of requests for content. In some embodiments a content management system associated with the content server keeps track of which objects have been checked out. In some such embodiments a subsequent request to the content management system to retrieve an object that has been checked out and has not yet been checked back in is denied e.g. by sending a reply indicating the content is not currently available is checked out to a user identified in the reply etc.

Accelerated content server is also accessed directly from a network through communication interface so that files can be directly read from and written to alternate content store by a content management system a web services or other application server or another content system. In some embodiments direct access of alternate content system by a remote system through a network improves performance by avoiding indirect data transfers through a content management system or a web services server and or other application server where alternate content system is managed by a content management system so that content in a primary content system and one or more alternate content systems are kept in appropriate states e.g. up to date copies of files are kept in the content system and alternate content system s . In various embodiments alternate content system is implemented using multiple computer systems one computer system or any other appropriate hardware and software systems including data storage devices such as magnetic hard drives tape drives semiconductor memory devices optical data storage devices or any mass or other storage device.

In some embodiments accelerated content server maintains a file system or other hierarchical organization or view of content in alternate content store . In some embodiments alternate content system also includes a content server and accelerated content server has no file system of its own and instead uses the file system of the content server to read write content from to alternate content store . In some embodiments accelerated content server comprises a web server.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

