---

title: Display management for communication devices with multiple displays
abstract: Within a communication device having a plurality of displays, a method of controlling the displays can include, responsive to receiving an event from an application within a display manager, determining whether a single event or multiple events are pending (). If a single event is pending, the method can include instructing the application to write data corresponding to the received event to a primary display of the communication device (). The display manager can write data corresponding to the received event to a secondary display (). If multiple events are pending, the method can include preventing the application from writing data to the primary display (). The display manager can write data corresponding to the multiple events to the primary display and the secondary display without involvement of the application (). The display manager further can launch a specific application in response to an event ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08108782&OS=08108782&RS=08108782
owner: Motorola Mobility, Inc.
number: 08108782
owner_city: Libertyville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061109
---
The present invention generally relates to communication devices that have more than one display and more particularly to managing the operation of those displays.

Many modern communication devices have an operating system that allows execution of software applications from third party vendors. Some mobile stations for example allow applications to be downloaded from Websites and executed within the communication device. In other cases third party applications can be provided with the communication device as original equipment rather than as an after market alternative.

Many of the applications available for communication devices are written to utilize a single visual display. A significant number of modern communication devices however have more than one display. A flip style mobile station is one example of a communication device that includes multiple displays. Typically the communication device is configured with an external display that is visible to the user when the communication device is in the closed position and an internal display that is visible to the user only when the device is in the open position. The external display is often smaller in size than the internal display though this need not be the case.

If an application is written to utilize only one display of the communication device a situation may arise where the application is to notify a user of an event but is unable to access the other display. Consider the case of an alarm application that is configured to utilize only the internal display of the communication device. When an event occurs for which an alarm must be provided the alarm application is only able to write data to the internal display of the communication device. If the communication device is in the closed position the user is unable to view this data. Since the alarm application cannot access the external display no information regarding the event is written to the external display. In consequence the user may be unaware that an event has occurred or unaware of the nature of the event that has occurred.

The present invention relates to a method of controlling displays of a communication device having a plurality of displays. The method can include determining whether a single event or multiple events are pending responsive to receiving an event within a display manager from an application. If a single event is pending the application can be instructed to write data corresponding to the received event to a primary display of the communication device. Data corresponding to the received event can be written to a secondary display by the display manager. If multiple events are pending the application can be prevented from writing data to the primary display. Data corresponding to the multiple events can be written to the primary display and the secondary display by the display manager.

If a single event is pending the method also can include responsive to detecting a user input instructing the application to remove the data corresponding to the event from the primary display. Responsive to detecting the communication device being placed in an open position where a single event is pending the data corresponding to the event can be allowed to remain on the primary display.

If multiple events are pending the method can include the display manager removing data corresponding to the multiple events from the primary display and the secondary display responsive to detecting a user input. When multiple events are pending the method also can include the display manager presenting upon the secondary display an indication that multiple events are pending and presenting upon the primary display a list of the multiple events. In that case the display manager responsive to detecting the communication device being placed in an open position can clear the secondary display and allow the list of the multiple events to remain on the primary display.

Responsive to receiving the event from the application a different application can be selected within the communication device that is associated with the event. The selected application can be automatically launched.

The method further can include responsive to receiving the event from the application first determining whether the communication device is in an emergency mode. If so the method can include instructing the application that multiple events are pending such that the application does not write to either the primary display or the secondary display.

Another aspect of the present invention can include a communication device. The communication device can include a plurality of displays comprising a primary display and a secondary display. The communication device also can include a display manager that receives events from one or more applications and responsive to receiving an event from an application selectively permits the application to write to the primary display according to whether a single event or multiple events are pending.

The communication device can be implemented as a flip style mobile station. The primary display can be an internal display. The secondary display can be an external display.

If the display manager determines that a single event is pending the display manager can instruct the application to write event data to the primary display. The display manager can write event data to the secondary display. If the display manager determines that multiple events are pending the display manager can instruct the application not to write data to the primary display. In that case the display manager can write data corresponding to the multiple events to the primary display and the secondary display.

If a single event is pending the display manager further responsive to detecting a user input can instruct the application to remove the event data from the primary display. If a single event is pending and the display manager detects the communication device being placed in an open position the display manager can exit in response to allow the event data from the application to remain on the primary display.

If multiple events are pending the display manager responsive to detecting a user input can remove data corresponding to the multiple events from the primary display and the secondary display. If multiple events are pending the display manager can present upon the secondary display an indication that a plurality of events are pending. The display manager further can present upon the primary display a list of the multiple events.

The display manager responsive to receiving the event from the application can select a different application within the communication device that is associated with the event and automatically launch the selected application.

The display manager also responsive to receiving the event from the application can first determine whether the communication device is in an emergency mode. If so the display manager can instruct the application that multiple events are pending such that the application does not write to either the primary display or the secondary display.

Another embodiment of the present invention can include a machine readable storage being programmed to cause a machine to perform the various steps described herein.

While the specification concludes with claims defining features of the invention that are regarded as novel it is believed that the invention will be better understood from a consideration of the description in conjunction with the drawings. As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which can be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the invention.

The present invention relates to managing and or controlling multiple displays of a communication device. Within a communication device having a plurality of displays events from various applications executing within the device can be provided to and evaluated by a centralized application. The centralized application can coordinate with the applications to write data to the various displays of the communication device as well as remove data from such displays. Other aspects of the present invention will be described in greater detail with reference to the drawings below.

The controller can comprise for example one or more central processing units CPUs one or more digital signal processors DSPs one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more programmable logic devices PLDs a plurality of discrete components that can cooperate to process data and or any other suitable processing device. These components can be coupled together to perform various processing functions as described herein.

The communication device also can include a transceiver that is used by the communication device to communicate with a communications network not shown via one or more selected communication channels i.e. protocols. In one aspect the transceiver can communicate data via IEEE 802 wireless communications including 802.11 and 802.16 WiMax WPA WPA2 GSM TDMA CDMA WCDMA direct wireless communication TCP IP or any other suitable form of wireless and or wired communication. It should be appreciated that the communication device further can include more than one transceiver i.e. a wireless transceiver and a wired transceiver a plurality of wireless transceivers a plurality of wired transceivers or any combination thereof for communicating via any of the formats described herein.

The user interface can include one or more keys which can be disposed within a keypad one or more programmable keys or both. A programmable key refers to a key that can be used to initiate any of a variety of different programmatic actions within the communication device . The particular programmatic action that is implemented can depend upon the particular operating state in which the communication device is disposed at the time the programmable key is actuated or activated. Programmatic keys also can be referred to as smart keys.

The user interface further can include two or more visual displays in this case referred to as a primary display and a secondary display . In one aspect for example in the case where the communication device is implemented as a flip style mobile station the primary display can be located within the mobile station and thus only be accessible when the mobile station is in the open position. The secondary display can be located on an exterior portion of the mobile station such that the secondary display is visible and can be read when the flip style mobile station is in the closed position.

The user interface further can include other mechanisms for obtaining user input and for providing feedback to a user of the communication device . For example the communication device can include various sensors that indicate whether the communication device is in an open or a closed position audio input and output transducers a Global Positioning System GPS receiver etc.

The communication device also can include a data store as shown. The data store can include one or more storage devices each of which can include a magnetic storage medium an electronic storage medium an optical storage medium a magneto optical storage medium and or any other storage medium suitable for storing digital information. In one arrangement the data store can be integrated into the controller .

The data store can include or store an operating system not shown which can be executed by the controller . The data store further can include one or more applications which can include third party applications. Third party application s can refer to computer programs that are provided or are otherwise made available by vendors other than the provider or manufacturer of the communication device and which can be executed by the communication device .

The application s can be pre programmed within the data store at the time the communication device is sold or provided to end users or can be stored within the data store at some point after the communication device has been provided to an end user. In one aspect one or more or all of the application s can be configured or programmed to only utilize or be aware of the primary display . In that case one or more of the application s would have no knowledge of the existence of the secondary display .

The data store also can include a display manager which can be implemented as a software application that when executed by the controller performs the various functions and methods described herein. In one aspect for example the display manager can coordinate the information that is written to the primary display and the secondary display as the controller executes one or more of the application s .

In another aspect the display manager can intercept events from various applications and responsively launch applications associated with or indicated by such events. In still another aspect the display manager can detect an Emergency Only mode of the communication device and prevent user access to particular functions to be described herein in greater detail.

The display manager can communicate with a database which also is included within the data store . The database can be used to store events event information received by the display manager as well as a listing of event data or notifications that can be displayed when selected events are received. The database also can be used to store text messages or other images that can be presented upon a display of the communication device. It should be appreciated that the particular data structure or mechanism used to store events and event related data is not intended to limit the present invention. As such other data structures can be used in lieu of the database if so desired and as may be necessary according to memory constraints of the communication device .

By executing the application s and the display manager the controller can interact with the various portions of the communication device i.e. the user interface the transceiver and access other data that may be stored within the data store .

In operation the display manager can be configured to receive events from the applications . Responsive to receiving some form of communication e.g. an incoming call a text message etc. the application responsible for such an activity e.g. a text messaging application can provide an event describing the incoming communication to the display manager . In one aspect the event can specify or include a copy of the entire received communication. The display manager can store the event within the database and respond to the application with instructions regarding what information is to be presented upon one or more of the displays of the communication device . The display manager further can work cooperatively with the application to display additional information relating to the event according to any of a variety of different conditions that may be detected within the communication device .

In step one of the applications in the communication device can provide an event to the display manager. As noted the application can provide an event to the display manager to indicate that something has occurred in the communication device which requires that some form of user feedback input or notification to be provided. A common example is the reception of an incoming message by the communication device that the application which provides the event to the display manager must handle or otherwise process. Other examples can include but are not limited to a missed phone call a voicemail a picture mail a missed Push To Talk private call a missed Push To Talk group call a missed call alert an alarm event a calendar event a received SMS or the like. Regardless of the cause of the event the application can call an application programming interface API provided by the display manager to provide the event to the display manager.

In step the display manager can determine whether the communication device is in an emergency mode. An emergency mode typically is a mode which restricts functionality of the communication device. For example an emergency mode can cause most if not all of the functionality of the communication device to be turned off or otherwise made unavailable to the user with the exception of one or more key functions such as the ability to place an outgoing call to 911. The operating state i.e. whether the communication device is in the emergency mode can be obtained by the display manager from the operating system of the communication device or another service executing within the communication device. If the communication device is in the emergency mode the method can proceed to step . If not the method can continue to step .

In step the display manager can store the received event for possible future use. In one aspect the event can be stored in the database of the data store of the communication device until such time as the communication device is no longer in emergency mode so that the event can be processed. In step the display manager optionally can provide a notification to a user through the communication device that an event has occurred. For example the display manager can cause some graphic indicator on one of the displays to be shown cause a light or LED to blink or illuminate etc. The notification can be specific or general but only serve to notify the user of the event without prompting or permitting further action to be performed.

In step the display manager can provide a notification to the application indicating that multiple events are pending. A multiple event notification from the display manager informs an application to take no further action in terms of writing to any display of the communication device. Such is the case as the application has no knowledge of other events that may be pending and require processing. The display manager is tasked with writing to one or both of the displays of the communication device in cases where multiple events are pending.

Accordingly in the case where the communication device is in an emergency mode the display manager informs the application that multiple events are pending. This causes the application to take no further action with respect to writing data to the primary display. In consequence a user is unaware of the occurrence of the event unless the display manager provides some form of notification as described. In any case without the application writing data to the display and or prompting the user no further processing of the event is performed by the communication device and the user is effectively blocked from accessing any functionality of the application.

After step the display manager can exit. It should be appreciated that the event can remain stored within the database of the display manager thereby allowing the processing of that event at a later time. The event is not lost. The event effectively is ignored until such time that the communication device emerges from the emergency mode.

In illustration a communication device may be configured as a dual mode mobile station having the ability to communicate with two different networks. If the communication device has an incorrect Subscriber Identity Module SIM installed the communication device may have service from the first network but not from the second network. From the user s perspective the communication device may simply appear to have no service at all. In that case the communication device can be placed in an emergency mode which disallows user access to many functions of the device. In this example the communication device is placed in the emergency mode due to non identification of the credentials of the user because of the incorrect SIM.

If a Short Message Service SMS communication is received over the first network an alarm or other visual notification may be provided on a display of the communication device which gives the user access to one or more functions of the communication device. In the emergency mode however such functions should be restricted. By informing the application that provided the event that multiple events are pending the application takes no action in terms of writing information to a display of the communication device. That task is left to the display manager which exits rather than writing any such data. Accordingly in an emergency mode the display manager prevents user access to functions of the communication device by preventing visual notifications from being provided by application.

Continuing to step where the communication device is not in the emergency mode the display manager can determine whether a single event is pending or multiple events are pending. Multiple events as used herein means two or more events i.e. a plurality of events. An event can be said to be pending when the event has been provided to the display manager the communication device is not in emergency mode and the event has not yet been processed or otherwise dealt with by the display manager. If a single event is pending the method can proceed to step . If more than one event is pending multiple events the method can continue to step . The scenarios discussed below can be applied to situations in which user feedback needs to be provided upon one or more displays about which the application is not aware e.g. on the secondary display when the device is in the closed position.

In step the display manager can provide a notification back to the application indicating that a single event is pending. Upon receiving a single event notification from the display manager the application can continue to process the event in normal fashion. Thus in step the application can write data corresponding to the event also called event data to the primary display of the communication device. As noted the primary display can be an internal display. Event data as used herein can refer to any data which can identify the event. In one aspect event data can include notifications of the events.

In step the display manager can write data relating to the event to the secondary display. As noted the application typically is unaware of the existence of the secondary or external display. Thus the display manager can be tasked with writing information to the external display without any interference or aid from the application. That is the display manager can function completely independently of the application any time data is written to one or both of the displays of the communication device. The data written to the secondary display i.e. the event data can be generic in fashion or can be more specific and include one or more items of information relating to the event as may be provided by the application in the original event notification to the display manager. Thus in one aspect the notification can be an application specific notification that is written to the secondary display by the display manager.

In step the display manager can monitor and determine whether a user input has been received while in the closed position or the communication device has been placed in the open position. A flip style mobile station typically provides one or more smart keys for example or other controls which allow a user to respond to a notification when the mobile station is in the closed position. Alternatively the user can choose to open the mobile station to respond to any information presented on the external display by the display manager.

If a user input is received while in the closed position for example in response to the data written to the secondary display by the display manager the method can proceed to step . In step the display manager instructs the application to remove the data from the primary display. That is reception of a user input other than the opening of the communication device while the communication device is in the closed position most likely indicates that the user does not wish to open the communication device to further deal with the event. Accordingly the application responsive to receiving the instructions from the display manager removes the data that was written to the primary display in step . In step the display manager can remove or clear event data written to the secondary display. After step the display manager can exit.

If the communication device is opened the method can proceed to step where the display manager can clear the data that was written to the secondary display. The method then can continue and the display manager can exit. By exiting the data written to the primary display from the application is left on the primary display to prompt or otherwise guide the user as to possible actions to be initiated in response to the event.

Proceeding to step in the case where multiple events are determined to be pending the display manager can notify the application that multiple events are pending. As noted such notification causes the application to abstain from writing data to the primary or internal display. In step the display manager can write data to the primary display and the secondary display. More particularly with respect to the primary or internal display the display manager can write data to display a list of one or more or all of the pending events. The list allows a user to choose one or more of the events from the list for further processing if the communication device is opened. The display manager can write any of a variety of notifications to the secondary display whether a notification that multiple events are pending a notification relating to the most recent event detected or the like. For example in one aspect the display manager can write the term Notifications on the secondary display to indicate a plurality of pending events that require the user s attention.

In step the display manager can determine whether a user input has been received while the communication device is in the closed position or the communication device has been opened. If a user input has been received other than the opening of the communication device while the communication device is in the closed position the method can proceed to step . As noted such a user input e.g. activation of a smart key or other control in response to a notification indicates that the user is not likely to open the communication device to further respond to the event. Accordingly in step the display manager can clear data that was written to the primary display and the secondary display in step . The method can continue and the display manager can exit.

If the communication device is opened the method can proceed from step to step . In step the display manager can clear the event data that was written to the secondary display in step . As the communication device has been opened the data written to the primary display i.e. the internal display can remain. Thus for example the event list that was written to the primary display in step can be left intact to prompt the user for further action regarding one or more of the pending events. After step the display manager can exit if the user chooses to exit or acknowledges dismisses all events in the list. It should be appreciated that the display manager can remain active until such time that the user has chosen to exit or has dealt with the various events specified within the list presented upon the primary display.

Accordingly in step an application can provide an event to the display manager. In step the display manager can determine that the event indicates that an application is to be launched or executed. For example the event can include an identifier or value which indicates that an application is to be launched. In step the display manager can select an application from a plurality of applications available or stored with the communication device. In one aspect such applications can be JAVA applications though the present invention is not intended to be limited by the particular type of operating system and or environment provided by the communication device.

The application can be selected according to information specified by the event. For example the event can include an identifier that is associated with an application. The associations can be stored within the data store of the communication device i.e. as a table within the database or other data structure. In step the display manager can launch the selected application i.e. the application indicated by the received event. The display manager then can exit.

The embodiments disclosed herein are directed to managing and coordinating the operation of multiple displays within a communication device. A centralized display manager can receive events from various applications within the communication device. Based upon the number of pending events at any given time and the operating state of the communication device the display manager directs applications as to which display if any the application is to write data corresponding to the events. The display manager further can write data to one or more of the displays of the communication device to work cooperatively with the applications.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The present invention can be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one processing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected processing systems. Any kind of processing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software can be a processing system with an application that when being loaded and executed controls the processing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. The present invention also can be embedded in an application product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a processing system is able to carry out these methods.

The terms computer program software application variants and or combinations thereof in the present context mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form. For example an application can include but is not limited to a subroutine a function a procedure an object method an object implementation an executable application an applet a servlet a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library and or other sequence of instructions designed for execution on a processing system.

The terms a and an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language .

This invention can be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

