---

title: Method and apparatus for analyzing surveillance systems using a total surveillance time metric
abstract: A method comprises the steps of receiving information concerning the operation of surveillance assets, and using the information in a Monte Carlo simulation to produce an estimate of total surveillance time. An apparatus that is used to perform the method is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07436295&OS=07436295&RS=07436295
owner: Northrop Grumman Corporation
number: 07436295
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060619
---
This invention was made under Contract No. F19628 03 C 0014. The United States Government has rights in this invention under the contract.

Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR systems may include a plurality of sensors mounted on a plurality of airborne platforms which can be for example manned or unmanned aircraft. The sensors are used to gather information about an area of interest. Communication links can be provided to transmit the collected information.

Traditional system reliability and maintainability R M metrics for Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR platforms include an indication of the Operational Availability A of system assets and an indication of the mission reliability MR . Availability is a measure of fleet status for example the percent of assets available to begin a mission. Mission reliability is a measure of the probability of successful mission completion. Aand MR are static metrics and do not portray inherent system robustness.

Operational availability is the probability that a system will be operating or capable of operation when required. In the context of an airborne surveillance system it includes squadron metric uptime possessed hours and approximates a readiness to launch rate. Possessed hours represent the calendar time in hours that aircraft are possessed by the squadron and not reassigned to backup or depot status.

The availability metric is typically used during an operation and support phase of a system s life and is the same as a mission capable MC rate. It can also be used in an acquisition phase but is limited by customer understanding of logistics delay times. Adoes not provide any information about an asset s ability to perform the mission.

The mission reliability metric estimates the probability of success for a single mission in a single time period. It also estimates the average time between mission ending failures. Mission reliability can be defined as a measure of the ability of an asset to perform its required mission critical functions for the duration of a specified mission or the probability that a system can complete its required operational mission without an operational mission failure OMF . An OMF is a failure that prevents the system from performing one or more mission essential functions or a measure of operational effectiveness that reflects the frequency with which a commander would remove a system from the ongoing mission and or not begin another mission.

Traditional system reliability and maintainability R M metrics for Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance ISR platforms fail to adequately measure the utility of the ISR system.

There is a need for a method and apparatus for analyzing ISR systems that can provide an indication of the utility of the system.

The invention provides a method comprising the steps of receiving information concerning the operation of surveillance assets and using the information in a Monte Carlo simulation to produce an estimate of total surveillance time.

In another aspect the invention provides an apparatus for providing an indication of the utility of an intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance system. The apparatus comprises a computer programmed to process information about the operation of assets in the intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance system and to produce an indication of a total surveillance time for various operating scenarios of the assets and a user interface operatively coupled to the computer system for inputting data into the computer system and for receiving the indication of a total surveillance time.

This invention uses the Total Surveillance Time TST as a metric for representing the ability of an ISR system to keep an area of interest under continuous surveillance for a specified period of time.

The sensors can be for example radar electro optical or infrared sensors. The communication system has a loop response time. Timeliness is important for mission success. It is generally desirable to provide continuous coverage of the area of interest. Thus surveillance system simulators should include metrics that reflect that goal.

This invention provides a method and apparatus for analyzing surveillance systems that provides an indication of the utility of the system. is a block diagram that illustrates the method of the invention. The method can be performed using for example a computer or other information processing device. Inputs to the system include system design drivers including logistics delay times reliability estimates and manpower . Concept of Operations CONOPS drivers include turnaround time TAT basing information campaign duration and mission length. These drivers along with spares information and maintainability estimates are processed in a Monte Carlo simulation to produce an output that is subjected to post processing to produce a campaign output . The campaign output includes a calculated total surveillance time metric to provide an indication of the utility of the system.

For the purposes of this example assume that each asset is an aircraft containing surveillance equipment. In the box legends are T for taxi time I for ingress time C for coverage time E for egress time and M for maintenance time. The taxi time is the time required for an aircraft to taxi to a take off point. The ingress time is the time required for the aircraft to fly to the area of interest. The coverage time is the time during which the aircraft provides surveillance of the area of interest. The egress time is the time required for the aircraft to return to the base. The maintenance time is the time required to prepare the aircraft for another mission.

The operation of a first asset is illustrated by stripe . Beginning at time T time period represents a first time period in which the first asset is taxiing to a take off position. Time period represents a second time period in which the first asset is traveling to an area of interest. Time period represents a third time period in which the first asset is providing surveillance coverage of the area of interest. Time period represents a fourth time period in which the first asset is returning to a base. Time period represents a fifth time period in which the first asset is undergoing maintenance. Upon completion of the maintenance the first asset is ready to perform additional surveillance.

The operation of a second asset is illustrated by stripe . Time period represents a first time period in which a second asset is taxiing to a take off position. Time period represents a second time period in which the second asset is traveling to an area of interest. Time period represents a third time period in which the second asset is providing surveillance coverage of the area of interest. Time period represents a fourth time period in which the second asset is returning to a base. Time period represents a fifth time period in which the second asset is undergoing maintenance. Upon completion of the maintenance the second asset is ready to perform additional surveillance.

The operation of a third asset is illustrated by stripe . Time period represents a first time period in which the third asset is taxiing to a take off position. Time period represents a second time period in which the third asset is traveling to an area of interest. Time period represents a third time period in which the third asset is providing surveillance coverage of the area of interest. Time period represents a fourth time period in which the third asset is returning to a base. Time period represents a fifth time period in which the third asset is undergoing maintenance.

As shown in stripe of at time T the first asset begins surveillance coverage of the area of interest. At time T the first asset ceases surveillance and the second asset begins coverage of the area of interest. At time T the second asset ceases surveillance and the third asset begins coverage of the area of interest. At time T the third asset experiences a failure that prevents further coverage of the area of interest. Since the first asset is ready to return to service when the third asset experiences a failure the first asset is employed to take over the coverage responsibility. However time is required for the first asset to taxi to a launch position and to travel to the area of interest. Thus there is a gap in coverage from time Tto time T. After time T coverage of the area of interest resumes using the first asset. The total surveillance time is then the total time of coverage as indicated in stripe .

Total Surveillance Time TST in a scenario campaign based system measures the level of continuous ISR coverage using all deployed assets. The TST metric uses a Monte Carlo simulation to model the combined effects of inherent system design on ISR coverage. TST gives an understanding of an ISR system s ability to provide required coverage.

A Monte Carlo simulation capability exists in many commercial reliability software products. It typically draws failures and repair times from probability distributions chosen to model the system being analyzed. This simulates the random occurrence of failures and repairs allowing a researcher to observe the effects of chance combinations of events giving a range of outcomes instead of a single prediction metric.

The modeler chooses Reliability Estimates and Maintainability Estimates from probability distributions for each component of the system. From operational doctrine or an Acceptable Performance Level APL document for the system the number of components k required for success out of all the blocks connecting into a node n is entered. A simulation of system operation is run for a period of time consistent with its mission profile. The report of the events provided by this Monte Carlo simulation becomes an input to a TST algorithm for the system of systems.

This invention uses the output of the Monte Carlo simulation as a sequence of random events representing the behavior of elements of the system for a period of time. Additional fidelity may be added by including information about the support system such as pre and post maintenance logistics delay times. This models real world repairs since maintenance time estimates include active repair time only. Further realism may be added by supplying spares quantities reorder points and order times in the spares data for each component. Each component may also indicate the manpower resources required to complete a repair. These three support resources add more realism to the model. In its simplest form each component fails in accordance with its failure distribution and can be repaired in accordance with its repair distribution. Logistics delays and time awaiting parts or personnel add to the basic repair time.

Each item in the system of systems in would have its own Monte Carlo simulation. In the TST approach each simulation would be run for the specified period of time typically a 30 day campaign. shows how the TST algorithm combines data from the Monte Carlo output of the Reliability and Maintainability software application. TST post processes the event reports drawing multiple runs from multiple systems for example the air vehicles . Each mission is post processed based on the event report as discussed earlier. At the end the TST algorithm adds all the coverage and divides it by the period of the campaign. This yields a metric from zero to 1.0 representing the Total Surveillance Time that the system achieved.

The Total Surveillance Time TST is a better metric for C4ISR assets than traditional R M metrics. TST has been used successfully to evaluate single platforms multiple platforms and ground stations. Monte Carlo simulation and dynamic re tasking combine to predict field performance in a typical contingency or conflict. The method of this invention is easily adaptable to a wide variety of missions where gapless coverage is the goal.

In one embodiment of the invention a family of system level Monte Carlo models is developed each with specific component level reliability maintainability and support system parameters. Multiple runs of these system level simulations are performed to develop a database of random events. A mission timeline based on user supplied mission profiles containing Taxi Ingress Coverage Egress and Repair Turnaround times is constructed. An overlay of post processed missions to span the period of the campaign is constructed. Then the total coverage achieved over the period of interest is calculated.

While the invention has been described in terms of several embodiments it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes can be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

