---

title: Fuel-cell based power generating system having power conditioning apparatus
abstract: A power conditioner includes power converters for supplying power to a load, a set of selection switches corresponding to the power converters for selectively connecting the fuel-cell stack to the power converters, and another set of selection switches corresponding to the power converters for selectively connecting the battery to the power converters. The power conveners output combined power that substantially optimally meets a present demand of the load.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07808129&OS=07808129&RS=07808129
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 07808129
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061024
---
This invention was made with Government assistance under Department of Energy Grant DE FC26 02NT41574. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention is directed to power generating systems and more particularly to power management control for a fuel cell based power generating system.

Power generating systems employing fuel cells have been gaining much attention in recent years as a source of more efficient and cleaner from of energy. As known a fuel cell is an electrochemical energy conversion device which produces direct current DC electricity from an external supply of fuel such as hydrogen and oxygen as opposed to the internal energy storage supply of a battery.

Typically a fuel cell power source is implemented in a stack of multiple fuel cells in a power generating system. A balance of power system BOPS is connected to the fuel cell stack for providing the fuel and oxygen. The power generating system also includes a battery for providing power to the load during transient moments when the load demand changes suddenly as the load goes to a new operating condition. The fuel cell stack generally cannot handle or react immediately to rapid changes in the current demand. Rapid changes in the current load demand in the long term are also harmful to the reliability of the fuel cell stack. After the new operating condition has been reached the battery is phased out and the fuel cell stack provides the power to the load. The fuel cell stack also charges the battery during this time.

Conventional power generating systems employing a fuel cell stack battery arrangement includes a dedicated power conditioner that is connected between the fuel cell stack and the load and another dedicated power conditioner connected between the battery and the load. The two separate dedicated power conditioners add to the cost volume and power loss of the power generating system.

Moreover each of the two separate power conditioners in the conventional power generating system are specifically designed for rated power around which the power conditioners have a very high efficiency. Therefore in the steady state when the load demand drops the power conditioners while providing lower output power operates at a low efficiency. This lead to inefficient operation of the power generating system.

Conventional fuel cell power systems operate at a constant fuel utilization in the steady state. However the fuel cell stack operates at its optimal efficiency at a certain range of the fuel utilization in the stack which depends on the operating fuel hydrogen flow rate into the stack. As such the fuel cell stacks operate sub optimally.

One embodiment of present invention relates to a power conditioner in a power generating system including a fuel cell stack and a battery. The power conditioner includes power converters for supplying power to a load a set of selection switches corresponding to the power converters for selectively connecting the fuel cell stack to the power converters and another set of selection switches corresponding to the power converters for selectively connecting the battery to the power converters. The power converters of the present invention output combined power that substantially optimally meets a present demand of the load.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a power generating system which includes a fuel cell stack for generating power and a battery source for generating alternate power. The system further includes distributed power converters for supplying power to a load a set of selection switches corresponding to the power converters for selectively connecting the fuel cell stack to the power converters and another set of selection switches corresponding to the power converters for selectively connecting the battery to the power converters. The power converters of the invention output combined power that substantially optimally meets a present demand of the load.

The present invention is directed to a power generating system having fuel cell stack and battery power sources. The power generating system includes distributed power converters which add up to the rated power of the load. Any of the power converters may be used by the fuel cell stack or the battery thereby eliminating the need for separate rated power converters for the fuel cell stack and the battery thus saving cost volume and power loss without compromising load transient mitigation as well as battery recharging. The distributed power converters approach also enables one to optimize the number of power converters that need to be operated for a given load power demand to achieve the maximum efficiency.

Turning to a power generating system in accordance with one embodiment of the invention includes a fuel cell stack and a balance of plant system BOPS for supplying fuel and oxygen to the fuel cell stack. The fuel cell stack generates DC power and is made up of a number of individual fuel cells such as for example PEM SOFC AFC or DMFC. The BOPS includes known components such as for example pumps fuel tanks water tanks compressors mixer heat exchangers etc.

A battery is provided for supplying power to a load during transition periods when the current demand from the load changes. The battery may be lead acid alkaline or any other varieties with sufficient current rating when the power generating system is designed for residential or commercial usage or for mobile applications such as in automobiles or trucks for example. The load may be a passive load which is either resistive or inductive as in auxiliary loads in the vehicles or an active load which may include but not limited to dc ac converters and ac load as in residential loads dc ac power electronic drives and ac motors in industrial applications or dc dc converter and dc load as in mobile applications.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a common power conditioner is connected between the fuel cell stack and the load and the battery and the load. The power conditioner includes multiple distributed bidirectional dc dc power converters each of which is used to convert the dc voltage and or current level to another desired dc voltage and or current level to meet the requirement of the load . The outputs of all the dc dc power converters are connected in parallel to a capacitor or capacitor bank so that power from the fuel cell stack or from the battery are distributed among the power converters. The power converters add up to the desired rated power of the load . Accordingly the number of the dc dc power converters used depends on the power rating of the converters and the total maximum load demand. The type of power converters used in the present invention includes but not limited to simple bidirectional dc dc converters or their isolated counterparts.

The power converters are electrically connected to the fuel cell stack through a series of corresponding selection switches and to the battery through corresponding selection switches . A dedicated dc dc converter N is connected directly to the battery to facilitate the charging of the battery at all times even when the power generating system delivers full power to the load .

The selection switches may be any power carrying switches such as relays or any controllable power semiconductor devices such as IGBTs BJTs MOSFETs Thyristors etc. The selection switches are controlled to bring in or take out any particular bidirectional power converters from operation. In other words the selection switches or are turned ON to connect the power converters to the fuel cell stack or the battery and to enable it to perform its dc dc power conversion function.

Turning now to the power generating system of the invention is shown with a power conditioner controller PCC for controlling the power conditioner which includes controlling the input current to the individual dc dc power converters by generating switching signals and switching pulses for the selection switches and shown in . A BOPS controller maintains the temperature and controls the flow rates of fuel and air into the fuel cell stack . The power generating system also includes a master controller for determining the current references for the PCC and a desired fuel utilization reference for the BOPS controller . The PCC and the master controller may be implemented in microprocessors such as for example TI DSPs or 32 bit microcontrollers such as Motorola 683xx Infineon Tricore etc. The BOPS control may be any known controller for controlling the BOPS.

In operation the master controller generates the reference current signals for the power converters based on the sensed bus voltage signal V the output voltage of the power converters. The number of additional power converters to be connected to the battery using the selection switches and the number of power converters to be connected to the fuel cell stack using the selection switches at anytime is determined and the current reference signals i are generated for efficient sharing of power among the power converters. Additionally the master controller obtains the state of the charge of the battery using the battery voltage sensor signal Vand determines the charging current for the battery. Based on the sensed flow rate of the fuel FF to the stack the master controller also determines the optimal fuel utilization FU which is fed to the BOPS controller as the input so as to effect the output fuel flow FF rates from the BOPS .

Referring now to the master controller includes a fuel utilization error compensator a bus voltage error compensator a performance map and an efficient power sharing block . The performance map is an experimentally obtained map specific to the fuel cell stack in operation which determines the optimal fuel utilization FU based on the fuel flow rate FF from the fuel stack . The fuel utilization error compensator takes the error between the actual fuel utilization FU and the optimal fuel utilization FU and generates the reference i for the current to be drawn from the fuel cell stack .

The bus voltage error compensator takes the error between the actual bus voltage Vand the desired bus voltage V and generates the total current reference i . The difference between the total current reference i and fuel cell stack current reference i is obtained as the required current to be drawn from the battery i .

The number of additional power converters to be connected to the battery using the selection switches and the number of power converters to be connected to the fuel cell stack using the selection switches at anytime is determined and the current reference signals i . . . i are generated for efficient sharing of power among the power converters by the power sharing block . More specifically the power sharing block takes the required current i to be drawn from the battery and the optimal fuel cell current i as inputs and using preferably a constrained optimization algorithm decides the required number of power converters to be connected to the fuel cell stack and or the battery . The power sharing block also determines the optimal power sharing among power converters which will maximize the overall efficiency of the power conditioner . The power sharing block also takes the battery voltage V as an input and controls the charging current to the battery .

It should be understood that while the power sharing block in the preferred embodiment uses an optimization algorithm it may also be implemented using a simple lookup table or a map which may be created offline.

The PCC includes a current error compensator a ramp generator and a modulator for each of the individual power converter . Each of the error compensators takes the error between the sensed actual current of the individual power converters and the corresponding reference current signals i . . . i and produces a required signal for the modulator . The modulator uses the high frequency ramp generator to modulate the compensated signal to generate the switching or operational signals S Sfor the individual dc dc power converters . The switch selection signals SS. . . SS generated in the master controller is used to turn ON OFF the selection switches and .

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

