---

title: System and method for relaxing media access restrictions over time
abstract: A disk bears a multimedia program and a player plays the program. The player is responsive to an image restraint token (IRT) to play the multimedia program only in a low resolution format and not in a high resolution format prior to an IRT expiration date. The player is then responsive to a key that is publicly available only on or after the expiration date and entered into the player to play the multimedia program in the high resolution format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07917442&OS=07917442&RS=07917442
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 07917442
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060921
---
The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for relaxing media access restrictions over time.

In the television field High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI which is the successor to Digital Visual Interface DVI for video presentation allows full uncompressed audio and video to be transmitted from a multimedia source such as a disk player to a TV over a single line. HDMI supports HD video formats 1080 p etc. and up to eight channels of audio at 192 KHz.

HDMI may be used in conjunction with High Definition Content Protection HDCP which is a security feature for preventing unauthorized hardware from connecting to authorized hardware and for transferring protected and encrypted data over a non secure medium. In essence HDCP uses a key exchange and if a satisfactory key exchange is not effected in some implementations including some DVD and Blu Ray disk implementations an image restraint token IRT on the disk can be set to prevent viewing the multimedia in full HD and to permit viewing the multimedia only in a lower resolution format e.g. to a 960 540 pixel format or lower 720 480 . Thus when a player is connected to a display using HDMI with HDCP indicating an authorized connection and resulting in a successful key exchange the IRT flag on the disk will not result in a lower resolution display and the high resolution format will be presented. It is only when a non HDCP situation arises that the IRT flag causes a low resolution format to be displayed.

As recognized herein an IRT can be used to permit selling a movie on a disk before an expiration date with viewing of the movie being permitted only in lower resolution formats in non HDMI HDCP systems until the expiration date at which time the IRT is reset to permit viewing the movie in full resolution. In this way revenue can be realized prior to an intended expiration date while preserving the value of the expiration date in terms of prohibiting hi resolution viewing until then. However the present invention also recognizes that a pirate might try to advance the date on the player to be the expiration date and to thereby prematurely play the high resolution version. With this in mind the invention herein is provided.

A method includes establishing an expiration date for a multimedia program restriction and prior to the expiration date providing the program on a storage medium to a user. Prior to the expiration date the storage medium can be engaged with a player to play the multimedia program only in a low resolution format with playing of the program in a high resolution format not being permitted unless HDCP authentication is successful. On or after the expiration date however a key is made publicly available and users can be instructed to enter the key into their players or the key can be automatically transferred into the players from a new disk obtained after the expiration date of the first disk. The key is useful to permit playing of the program in the high resolution format.

In non limiting implementations the storage medium may be an optical disk the high resolution format may be 1080p and the low resolution format may 960 540 or lower.

In some embodiments an image restraint token IRT is used to permit the player to play the multimedia program only in the low resolution format and not in the high resolution format prior to the expiration date. The player can play the program in the high resolution format only if the key is entered into the player.

In another aspect a system includes a disk bearing at least one multimedia program and a player engageable with the disk for playing the program. The player is responsive to an image restraint token IRT to play the multimedia program only in a low resolution format and not in a high resolution format prior to an expiration date. The player is responsive to a key that is publicly available only on or after the expiration date and entered into the player to play the multimedia program in the high resolution format.

In yet another aspect a method includes vending a disk containing at least one multimedia program to a user prior to expiration date of the program and permitting the program to be played only in a low resolution format prior to the expiration date. The method also includes on or after the expiration date publicizing a key that can be entered into a player to permit playing the program in a high resolution format.

The details of the present invention both as to its structure and operation can best be understood in reference to the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts and in which 

Referring initially to a system is shown generally designated which includes a storage medium such as but not limited to a disk such as but not limited to a DVD or Blu Ray disk. The disk can bear an image restraint token IRT and can be engaged with a suitable disk player with processor to play multimedia streams such as movies on the disk in accordance with logic below and embodied on computer readable medium such as but not limited to random access memory or read only memory that is accessible to the processor .

To display the streams the player may communicate over one or more wired or wireless links with a display device such as but not limited to a TV with TV display . A user may manipulate keys on a remote control to input information into the TV and thence to the player or to the player directly for purposes to be shortly disclosed. The link s may be any suitable link e.g. a HDMI link 802.11 link or other link and as indicated in the streams may be output from the player in analog format or in digital format with or without HDCP.

As discussed above for a HDMI HDCP system an authorized connection is assumed and the IRT flag will not prevent playing a movie in a high resolution format regardless of expiration date. The present invention is directed to other situations wherein the IRT is effective in preventing playing a particular movie or other stream high resolution format permitting play of the movie only in a lower resolution format.

To illustrate shows starting at block that one or more multimedia programs are loaded onto the disk . An image restraint token IRT which may be implemented as a flag and which can be accompanied by a disk expiration date is set typically on the disk itself to indicate to the processor that one or more multimedia streams may be played only in a lower resolution format e.g. 960 540 or lower and not in a higher resolution format e.g. 1080 p assuming the system is not a HDMI HDCP system as discussed above. The IRT value is established to this end in accordance with principles known in the art.

At block after the disk is vended to a user the user can engage the disk with the player to play the multimedia stream. At this point the logic below as embodied in the computer medium of the player may be implemented by the processor in the player .

If it is determined at decision diamond that the display is HDCP authenticated or if not that no IRT is present on the disk at decision diamond then the content is output by the player to the TV at block for unrestricted play including play at the highest resolution implemented on the disk. Thus the IRT is not examined for pre release low resolution play as discussed below in cases wherein there is no IRT on the disk or where successful HDCP authentication of the display device occurs.

However in non HDCP cases when an IRT is present on the disk the logic proceeds to decision diamond to determine whether the IRT is expired by examining the elapsed date associated with the IRT . If the IRT is expired the content is output at block for unrestricted play as before but if the IRT is not expired the multimedia stream is played in the lower resolution format at block . It cannot be played in the higher resolution format at this time because the below described key has not yet been input to the player . The expiration date itself may be publicized at the time of vending the disk and or displayed when the disk is played so that the user knows the expiration date. Also the locations at which the user may learn the below described key on or after the expiration date may be similarly publicized.

On or after the expiration date an encryption key is made publicly available. The key may be made publicly available in the clear in any number of non limiting ways e.g. publishing the value of the key in a broadcast or in print media such as newspapers and magazines public announcements both written and oral on a web site etc. Alternatively after the expiration date a user might obtain another new disk not shown and the new disk can contain keys for all disks having prior expiration dates. In this form of publication the keys can be transferred automatically to the player when the new disk is engaged therewith and the player can use the appropriate key from the new disk to unlock the old disk and permit playing its streams in the high resolution format.

Thus now referring to at block the user may obtain the now public key and input it to the player by means of e.g. the remote control or other means e.g. linking the player to another component in a home entertainment network and downloading the key to player from the other component etc. . Or at block a disk may be engaged with the player that has the key on it with the key being automatically transferred into the player . In either case the effect is that the logic flows to block wherein the otherwise secure elapsed date register in the player that is associated with the relevant disk is advanced so that the player effectively considers that the expiration date has passed at decision diamond in thus permitting play of the stream in the higher resolution format.

The way by which the key releases the higher resolution format is not limiting. In one embodiment the disk bears the key and a user cannot access the key on the disk. When the user inputs the key to the player the player can compare the user input key with the key on the disk and if there is a match play the higher resolution version. Or the key may be input as one of many keys to the player at manufacturing time or downloaded to the player sometime thereafter for comparison with a user input key value. Still again the IRT may be encrypted by the key in a way that makes altering or otherwise operating on the IRT impossible unless and until the key is input to the player. Additionally an IRT per se need not be used in some embodiments with the player programmatically denying play of the higher resolution format until such time as a proper key is input.

It may now be appreciated that the disclosure above adds an expiration date to the concept of an IRT provides for an elapsed date register in playback devices and provides a secure means to update the elapsed date register.

While the particular SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RELAXING MEDIA ACCESS RESTRICTIONS OVER TIME is herein shown and described in detail it is to be understood that the subject matter which is encompassed by the present invention is limited only by the claims.

