---

title: System and method for generating consistent images of a set of data objects
abstract: A system and method efficiently generates a set of parallel persistent consistency point images (PCPIs) of volumes configured as a SVS and served by a plurality of nodes interconnected as a cluster. A volume operations daemon (VOD) executing on a node of the cluster is configured to manage generation of the volume PCPIs. Notably, the set of PCPIs is generated substantially in parallel to thereby obtain a consistent and accurate point in time reference of the entire SVS.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08224777&OS=08224777&RS=08224777
owner: NetApp, Inc.
number: 08224777
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060428
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 676 754 which was filed on Apr. 29 2005 by Jeffrey S. Kimmel for a SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING PARALLEL PERSISTENT CONSISTENCY POINT IMAGES and PCT Application US 2006 16422 filed on Apr. 28 2006 by Jeffrey S. Kimmel for a SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING PARALLEL PERSISTENT CONSISTENCY POINT IMAGES both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 119 278 entitled STORAGE SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE FOR STRIPING DATA CONTAINER CONTENT ACROSS VOLUMES OF A CLUSTER by Michael Kazar. et al. now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 698 289 on Apr. 13 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention is directed to storage systems and in particular to generating a set of consistent images of a set of data objects.

A storage system typically comprises one or more storage devices into which information may be entered and from which information may be obtained as desired. The storage system includes a storage operating system that functionally organizes the system by inter alia invoking storage operations in support of a storage service implemented by the system. The storage system may be implemented in accordance with a variety of storage architectures including but not limited to a network attached storage environment a storage area network and a disk assembly directly attached to a client or host computer. The storage devices are typically disk drives organized as a disk array wherein the term disk commonly describes a self contained rotating magnetic media storage device. The term disk in this context is synonymous with hard disk drive HDD or direct access storage device DASD .

The storage operating system of the storage system may implement a high level module such as a file system to logically organize the information stored on volumes as a hierarchical structure of data containers such as files and logical units. For example each on disk file may be implemented as set of data structures i.e. disk blocks configured to store information such as the actual data for the file. These data blocks are organized within a volume block number vbn space that is maintained by the file system. The file system may also assign each data block in the file a corresponding file offset or file block number fbn . The file system typically assigns sequences of fbns on a per file basis whereas vbns are assigned over a larger volume address space. The file to system organizes the data blocks within the vbn space as a logical volume each logical volume may be although is not necessarily associated with its own file system.

A known type of file system is a write anywhere file system that does not overwrite data on disks. If a data block is retrieved read from disk into a memory of the storage system and dirtied i.e. updated or modified with new data the data block is is thereafter stored written to a new location on disk to optimize write performance. A write anywhere file system may initially assume an optimal layout such that the data is substantially contiguously arranged on disks. The optimal disk layout results in efficient access operations particularly for sequential read operations directed to the disks. An example of a write anywhere file system that is configured to operate on a storage system is the Write Anywhere File Layout WAFL file system available from Network Appliance Inc. Sunnyvale Calif.

Certain file systems have the capability to generate snapshots of their active file systems. An active file system is a file system to which data can be both written and read or more generally an active store that responds to both read and write input output I O operations. It should be noted that snapshot is a trademark of Network Appliance Inc. and is used for purposes of this patent to designate a persistent consistency point CP image. A persistent consistency point image PCPI is a point in time read only image of data accessible by name that provides a consistent image of that data at some previous time. More particularly a PCPI is a point in time representation of a storage element such as an active file system file volume or database stored on one or more storage devices e.g. on disks or other persistent memory and having a name or other identifier that distinguishes it from other PCPIs taken at other points in time. A PCPI can also include other information meta data about the active file system at the particular point in time for which the image is taken. More generally as used herein a PCPI may denote any point in time copy mechanism associated with any particular file system. The terms PCPI and snapshot may be used interchangeably through out this patent without derogation of Network Appliance s trademark rights.

The storage system may be further configured to operate according to a client server model of information delivery to thereby allow many clients to access data containers stored on the system. In this model the client may comprise an application such as a database application executing on a computer that connects to the storage system over a computer network such as a point to point link shared local area network LAN wide area network WAN storage area network SAN or virtual private network VPN implemented over a public network such as the Internet. Each client may request the services of the storage system by issuing file based and block based protocol messages in the form of packets to the system over the network.

A plurality of storage systems may be deployed to provide a storage system environment configured to service many clients. Each storage system may be configured to service one or more volumes wherein each volume stores one or more data containers. Yet often a large number of data access requests issued by the clients may be directed to a small number of data containers serviced by a particular storage system of the environment. A solution to such a problem is to distribute the volumes serviced by the particular storage system among all of the storage systems of the environment. This in turn distributes the data access requests along with the processing resources needed to service such requests among all of the storage systems thereby reducing the individual processing load on each storage system. However a noted disadvantage arises when only a single data container such as a file is heavily accessed by clients of the storage system environment. As a result the storage system attempting to service the requests directed to that data container may exceed its processing resources and become overburdened with a concomitant degradation of speed and performance.

One technique for overcoming the disadvantages of having a single data container that is heavily utilized is to stripe the data container across a plurality of volumes configured as a striped volume set SVS where each volume is serviced by a different storage system thereby distributing the load for the single data container among a plurality of storage systems. One technique for data container striping is described in the above referenced U.S. Pat. No. 7 698 289 entitled STORAGE SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE FOR STRIPING DATA CONTAINER CONTENT ACROSS VOLUMES OF A CLUSTER. Broadly stated stripes of content data of a data container are allocated to each volume of the SVS in a manner that balances data across the volumes of the SVS. Each stripe has a defined size width as specified by a set of striping rules associated with the SVS.

A noted disadvantage arises when configuring a SVS on a cluster of storage systems wherein each storage system may implement a file system capable of generating a PCPI and wherein each volume of the SVS may be serviced by a different storage system is in the cluster. Accordingly no single storage system may serve the entirety of the SVS i.e. all volumes of the SVS. As such if a PCPI is generated of an individual volume the contents of that PCPI may not be consistent with some point in time state of the entire SVS.

The present invention overcomes the disadvantages of the prior art by providing a system and method for efficiently generating a set of consistent images of a plurality of data objects. According to an illustrative general embodiment of the invention an agent is initiated to generate the set of consistent images. The agent optionally transmits a first message to each of the storage systems servicing one or more of the data objects. In response to this message each storage system sets a first marker and then returns an acknowledgement to the agent. The first marker forces each storage system to complete any time consuming in progress operations that modify the data object but to hold any newly received time consuming operations that modify the data object. Once the agent receives acknowledgements from each of the storage systems it then transmits a second message to each of the storage systems which in response set a second marker before returning an acknowledgement. The second marker forces each storage system to complete any additional in progress operations that modify the data objects and to hold all newly received operations until the consistent image is created. Once its second marker has been set each storage system may capture a consistent image of the data objects. After the agent has received the second acknowledgement from each storage system it then transmits a commit message to each storage system which causes each storage system to clear the first and second markers after the consistent image has been captured.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention generates a set of synchronized parallel persistent consistency point images PCPIs of volumes configured as a striped volume set SVS and served by a plurality of nodes interconnected as a cluster. Each node of the cluster includes i a disk element D blade having a file system and a volume striping module VSM that cooperate to service a volume of the SVS and ii a network element N blade adapted to redirect a data access request from a client to any D blade of the cluster.

According to the invention an administrator initiates the creation of the PCPIs by issuing a PCPI generation command to a volume operations daemon VOD . In response the VOD informs the VSM of the meta data volume MDV to initiate a parallel or synchronized PCPI of the SVS. The VSM for the MDV then performs a CP and sends a request to each VSM serving a data volume DV of the striped volume set to perform a CP. Each of the VSMs then performs a CP of the appropriate DV. These priming CPs are utilized to flush the majority of dirty data out of any caches and to enable later PCPI productions an expedited basis. Once the VSM of the MDV receives an acknowledgment from each DV that it has performed an initial priming CP the VSM of the MDV sets a first marker and sends a preparatory message to each DV. Upon receipt the VSM for each DV sets a first marker and returns an acknowledgement to the VSM of the MDV. After receiving an acknowledgment from each DV the VSM of the MDV sets a second marker and generates a PCPI of the MDV. The VSM also sends a perform synchronized PCPI request to each DV which causes the VSM for each DV to set a second marker and to generate a PCPI of the DV. The VSM of the MDV then sends a complete synchronized PCPI request to each DV which causes the VSMs for each DV to remove the first and second markers and to return an acknowledgement. Once the MDV has received acknowledgements from each DV the VSM for the MDV then removes its first and second markers. At this point the synchronized and parallel PCPIs have been generated.

The clients may be general purpose computers configured to interact with the node in accordance with a client server model of information delivery. That is each client may request the services of the node and the node may return the results of the services requested by the client by exchanging packets over the network . The client may issue packets including file based access protocols such as the Common Internet File System CIFS protocol or Network File System NFS protocol over the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP when accessing information in the form of files and directories. Alternatively the client may issue packets including block based access protocols such as the Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI protocol encapsulated over TCP iSCSI and SCSI encapsulated over Fibre Channel FCP when accessing information in the form of blocks.

Each node is illustratively embodied as a dual processor storage system executing a storage operating system that preferably implements a high level module such as a file system to logically organize the information as a hierarchical structure of named directories files and special types of files called virtual disks hereinafter generally blocks on the disks. However it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the node may alternatively comprise a single or more than two processor systern. Illustratively one processor executes the functions of the N blade on the node while the other processor executes the functions of the D blade .

The memory illustratively comprises storage locations that are addressable by the processors and adapters for storing software program code and data structures associated with the present invention. The processor and adapters may in turn comprise processing elements and or logic circuitry configured to execute the software code and manipulate the data structures. The storage operating system portions of which is typically resident in memory and executed by the processing elements functionally organizes the node by inter alia invoking storage operations in support of the storage service implemented by the node. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that other processing and memory means including various computer readable media may be used for storing and executing program instructions pertaining to the invention described herein.

The network adapter comprises a plurality of ports adapted to couple the node to one or more clients over point to point links wide area networks virtual private networks implemented over a public network Internet or a shared local area network. The network adapter thus may comprise the mechanical electrical and signaling circuitry needed to connect the node to the network. Illustratively the computer network may be embodied as an Ethernet network or a Fibre Channel FC network. Each client may communicate with the node over network by exchanging discrete frames or packets of data according to pre defined protocols such as TCP IP.

The storage adapter cooperates with the storage operating system executing on the node to access information requested by the clients. The information may be stored on any type of attached array of writable storage device media such as video tape optical DVD magnetic tape bubble memory electronic random access memory micro electro mechanical and any other similar media adapted to store information ineluding data and parity information. However as illustratively described herein the information is preferably stored on the disks of array . The storage adapter comprises a plurality of ports having input output I O interface circuitry that couples to the disks over an I O interconnect arrangement such as a conventional high performance FC link topology.

Storage of information on each array is preferably implemented as one or more storage volumes that comprise a collection of physical storage disks cooperating to define an overall logical arrangement of volume block number vbn space on the volume s . Each logical volume is generally although not necessarily associated with its own file system. The disks within a logical volume file system are typically organized as one or more groups wherein each group may be operated as a Redundant Array of Independent or Inexpensive Disks RAID . Most RAID implementations such as a RAID 4 level implementation enhance the reliability integrity of data storage through the redundant writing of data stripes across a given number of physical disks in the RAID group and the appropriate storing of parity information with respect to the striped data. An illustrative example of a RAID implementation is a RAID 4 level implementation although it should be understood that other types and levels of RAID implementations may be used in accordance with the inventive principles described herein.

To facilitate access to the disks the storage operating system implements a write anywhere file system that cooperates with one or more virtualization modules to virtualize the storage space provided by disks . The file system logically organizes the information as a hierarchical structure of named directories and files on the disks. Each on disk file may be implemented as set of disk blocks configured to store information such as data whereas the directory may be implemented as a specially formatted is file in which names and links to other files and directories are stored. The virtualization module s allow the file system to further logically organize information as a hierarchical structure of blocks on the disks that are exported as named logical unit numbers luns .

In the illustrative embodiment the storage operating system is preferably the NetApp Data ONTAP operating system available from Network Appliance Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. that implements a Write Anywhere File Layout WAFL file system. However it is expressly contemplated that any appropriate storage operating system may be enhanced for use in accordance with the inventive principles described herein. As such where the term WAFL is employed it should be taken broadly to refer to any storage operating system that is otherwise adaptable to the teachings of this invention.

In addition the storage operating system includes a series of software layers organized to form a storage server that provides data paths for accessing information is stored on the disks of the node . To that end the storage server includes a file system module in cooperating relation with a volume striping module VSM a RAID system module and a disk driver system module . The RAID system manages the storage and retrieval of information to and from the volumes disks in accordance with I O operations while the disk driver system implements a disk access protocol such as e.g. the SCSI protocol. The VSM illustratively implements a striped volume set SVS of the present invention. As described further herein the VSM cooperates with the file system to enable storage server to service a volume of the SVS. In particular the VSM implements a Locate function to compute the location of data container content in the SVS volume to thereby ensure consistency of such content served by the cluster.

The file system implements a virtualization system of the storage operating system through the interaction with one or more virtualization modules illustratively embodied as e.g. a virtual disk vdisk module not shown and a SCSI target module . The vdisk module enables access by administrative interfaces such as a user interface of a management framework see in response to a user system administrator issuing commands to the node . The SCSI target module is generally disposed between the FC and iSCSI drivers and the file system to provide a translation layer of the virtualization system between the block lun space and the file system space where luns are represented as blocks.

The file system is illustratively a message based system that provides logical volume management capabilities for use in access to the information stored on the storage devices such as disks. That is in addition to providing file system semantics the file system provides functions normally associated with a volume manager. These functions include i aggregation of the disks ii aggregation of storage bandwidth of the disks and iii reliability guarantees such as mirroring and or parity RAID . The file system illustratively implements the WAFL file system hereinafter generally the write anywhere file system having an on disk format representation that is block based using e.g. 4 kilobyte kB blocks and using index nodes inodes to identify files and file attributes such as creation time access permissions size and block location . The file system uses files to store meta data describing the layout of its file system is these meta data files include among others an inode file. A file handle i.e. an identifier that includes an inode number is used to retrieve an inode from disk.

Broadly stated all inodes of the write anywhere file system are organized into the inode file. A file system fs info block specifies the layout of information in the file system and includes an inode of a file that includes all other inodes of the file system. Each logical volume file system has an fsinfo block that is preferably stored at a fixed location within e.g. a RAID group. The inode of the inode file may directly reference point to data blocks of the inode file or may reference indirect blocks of the inode file that in turn reference data blocks of the inode file. Within each data block of the inode file are embedded inodes each of which may reference indirect blocks that in turn reference data blocks of a file.

Operationally a request from the client is forwarded as a packet over the computer network and onto the node where it is received at the network adapter . A network driver of layer or layer processes the packet and if appropriate passes it on to a network protocol and file access layer for additional processing prior to forwarding to the write anywhere file system . Here the file system generates operations to load retrieve the requested data from disk if it is not resident in core i.e. in memory . If the information is not in memory the file system indexes into the inode file using the inode number to access an appropriate entry and retrieve a logical vbn. The file system then passes a message structure including the logical vbn to the RAID system the logical vbn is mapped to a disk identifier and disk block number disk dbn and sent to an appropriate driver e.g. SCSI of the disk driver system . The disk driver accesses the dbn from the specified disk and loads the requested data block s in memory for processing by the node. Upon completion of the request the node and operating system returns a reply to the client over the network .

It should be noted that the software path through the storage operating system layers described above needed to perform data storage access for the client request received at the node may alternatively be implemented in hardware. That is in an alternate embodiment of the invention a storage access request data path may be implemented as logic circuitry embodied within a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC . This type of hardware implementation increases the performance of the storage service provided by node in response to a request issued by client . Moreover in another alternate embodiment of the invention the processing elements of adapters may be configured to offload some or all of the packet processing and storage access operations respectively from processor to thereby increase the performance of the storage service provided by the node. It is expressly contemplated that the various processes architectures and procedures described herein can be implemented in hardware firmware or software.

As used herein the term storage operating system generally refers to the computer executable code operable on a computer to perform a storage function that manages data access and may in the case of a node implement data access semantics of a general purpose operating system. The storage operating system can also be implemented as a microkernel an application program operating over a general purpose operating system such as UNIX or Windows NT or as a general purpose operating system with configurable functionality which is configured for storage applications as described herein.

In addition it will be understood to those skilled in the art that the invention described herein may apply to any type of special purpose e.g. file server filer or storage serving appliance or general purpose computer including a standalone computer or portion thereof embodied as or including a storage system. Moreover the teachings of this invention can be adapted to a variety of storage system architectures including but not limited to a network attached storage environment a storage area network and disk assembly directly attached to a client or host computer. The term storage system should therefore be taken broadly to include such arrangements in addition to any subsystems configured to perform a storage function and associated with other equipment or systems. It should be noted that while this description is written in terms of a write anywhere file system the teachings of the present invention may be utilized with any suitable file system including a write in place file system.

In the illustrative embodiment the storage server is embodied as D blade of the storage operating system to service one or more volumes of array . In addition the multi protocol engine is embodied as N blade to i perform protocol termination with respect to a client issuing incoming data access request packets over the network as well as ii redirect those data access requests to any storage server of the cluster . Moreover the N blade and D blade cooperate to provide a highly scalable distributed storage system architecture of the cluster . To that end each blade includes a cluster fabric CF interface module adapted to implement intra cluster communication among the blades including D blade to D blade communication for data container striping operations described herein.

The protocol layers e.g. the NFS CIFS layers and the iSCSI FC layers of the N blade function as protocol servers that translate file based and block based data access requests from clients into CF protocol messages used for communication with the D blade . That is the N blade servers convert the incoming data access requests into file system primitive operations commands that are embedded within CF messages by the CF interface module for transmission to the D blades of the cluster . Notably the CF interface modules cooperate to provide a single file system image across all D blades in the cluster . Thus any network port of an N blade that receives a client request can access any data container within the single file system image located on any D blade of the cluster.

Further to the illustrative embodiment the N blade and D blade are implemented as separately scheduled processes of storage operating system however in an alternate embodiment the blades may be implemented as pieces of code within a single operating system process. Communication between an N blade and D blade is thus illustratively effected through the use of message passing between the blades although in the case of remote communication between an N blade and D blade of different nodes such message passing occurs over the cluster switching fabric . A known message passing mechanism provided by the storage operating system to transfer information between blades processes is the Inter Process Communication IPC mechanism. The protocol used with the IPC mechanism is illustratively a generic file and or block based agnostic CF protocol that comprises a collection of methods functions constituting a CF application programming interface API . Examples of such an agnostic protocol are the SpinFS and SpinNP protocols available from Network Appliance Inc. The SpinFS protocol is described in the above referenced U.S. Pat. No. 6 671 773.

The CF interface module implements the CF protocol for communicating file system commands among the blades of cluster . Communication is illustratively effected by the D blade exposing the CF API to which an N blade or another D blade issues calls. To that end the CF interface module is organized as a CF encoder and CF decoder. The CF encoder of e.g. CF interface on N blade encapsulates a CF message as i a local procedure call LPC when communicating a file system command to a D blade residing on the same node or ii a remote procedure call RPC when communicating the command to a D blade residing on a remote node of the cluster . In either case the CF decoder of CF interface on D blade de encapsulates the CF message and processes the file system command.

A data container e.g. a file is accessed in the file system using a data container is handle. is a schematic block diagram illustrating the format of a data container handle including a SVS ID field an inode number field a unique ifier field a striped flag field and a striping epoch number field . The SVS ID field contains a global identifier within the cluster of the SVS within which the data container resides. The iode number field contains an inode number of an inode within an inode file pertaining to the data container. The unique ifier field contains a monotonically increasing number that uniquely identifies the data container handle . The unique ifier is particularly useful in the case where an inode number has been deleted reused and reassigned to a new data container. The unique ifier distinguishes that reused inode number in a particular data container from a potentially previous use of those fields. The striped flag field illustratively holds a Boolean value that identifies whether the data container is striped or not. The content of the striping epoch number field indicates the appropriate striping technique for use with the data container for embodiments where the SVS utilizes differing striping techniques for different data containers.

In the illustrative embodiment a data container is represented in the write anywhere file system as an inode data structure adapted for storage on the disks . is a schematic block diagram of an inode which preferably includes a meta data section and a data section . The information stored in the meta data section of each inode describes the data container e.g. a file and as such includes the type e.g. regular directory vdisk of file its size time stamps e.g. access and or modification time and ownership i.e. user identifier UID and group ID GID of the file. The meta data section also includes a generation number and a meta data invalidation flag field . Meta data invalidation flag field is used to indicate whether meta data in this inode is usable or whether it should be re acquired from a meta data volume MDV of the SVS. The contents of the data section of each inode may be interpreted differently depending upon the type of file inode defined within the type field . For example the data section of a directory inode contains meta data controlled by the file system whereas the data section of a regular inode contains file system data. In this latter case the data section includes a representation of the data associated with the file.

Specifically the data section of a regular on disk Mode may include file system data or pointers the latter referencing 4 kB data blocks on disk used to store the file system data. Each pointer is preferably a logical vbn to facilitate efficiency among the file system and the RAID system when accessing the data on disks. Given the restricted size e.g. 128 bytes of the inode file system data having a size that is less than or equal to 64 bytes is represented in its entirety within the data section of that inode. However if the length of the contents of the data container exceeds 64 bytes but less than or equal to 64 kB then the data section of the inode e.g. a first level inode comprises up to 16 pointers each of which references a 4 kB block of data on the disk.

Moreover if the size of the data is greater than 64 kB but less than or equal to 64 megabytes MB then each pointer in the data section of the inode e.g. a second level inode references an indirect block e.g. a first level L1 block that contains 1024 pointers each of which references a 4 kB data block on disk. For file system data having a size greater than 64 MB each pointer in the data section of the inode e.g. a third level L3 inode references a double indirect block e.g. a second level L2 block that contains 1024 pointers each referencing an indirect e.g. a first level L1 block. The indirect block in turn that contains 1024 pointers each of which references a 4 kB data block on disk. When accessing a file each block of the file may be loaded from disk into the memory .

When an on disk inode or block is loaded from disk into memory its corresponding in core structure embeds the on disk structure. For example the dotted line surrounding the inode indicates the in core representation of the on disk inode structure. The in core structure is a block of memory that stores the on disk structure plus additional information needed to manage data in the memory but not on disk . The additional information may include e.g. a dirty bit . After data in the inode or block is updated modified as instructed by e.g. a write operation the modified data is marked dirty using the dirty bit so that the inode block can be subsequently flushed stored to disk. The in core and on disk format structures of the WAFL file system including the inodes and inode file are disclosed and described in the previously is incorporated U.S. Pat. No. 5 818 292 titled METHOD FOR MAINTAINING CONSISTENT STATES OF A FILE SYSTEM AND FOR CREATING USER ACCESSIBLE READ ONLY COPIES OF A FILE SYSTEM by David Hitz et al. issued on Oct. 6 1898.

A file system layout is provided that apportions an underlying physical volume into one or more virtual volumes or flexible volume of a storage system such as node . An example of such a file system layout is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 836 817 titled EXTENSION OF WRITE ANYWHERE FILE SYSTEM LAYOUT by John K. Edwards et al. and assigned to Network Appliance Inc. which is now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 409 494 on Aug. 5 2008. The underlying physical volume is an aggregate comprising one or more groups of disks such as RAID groups of the node. The aggregate has its own physical volume block number pvbn space and maintains meta data such as block allocation structures within that pvbn space. Each flexible volume has its own virtual volume block number vvbn space and maintains meta data such as block allocation structures within that vvbn space. Each flexible volume is a file system that is associated with a container file the container file is a file in the aggregate that contains all blocks used by the flexible volume. Moreover each flexible volume comprises data blocks and indirect blocks that contain block pointers that point at either other indirect blocks or data blocks.

In one embodiment pvbns are used as block pointers within buffer trees of files such as file stored in a flexible volume. This hybrid flexible volume embodiment involves the insertion of only the pvbn in the parent indirect block e.g. inode or indirect block . On a read path of a logical volume a logical volume vol info block has one or more pointers that reference one or more fsinfo blocks each of which in turn points to an inode file and its corresponding inode buffer tree. The read path on a flexible volume is generally the same following pvbns instead of vvbns to find appropriate locations of blocks in this context the read path and corresponding read performance of a flexible volume is substantially similar to that of a physical volume. Translation from pvbn to disk dbn occurs at the file system RAID system boundary of the storage operating system .

In an illustrative dual vbn hybrid flexible volume embodiment both a pvbn and its corresponding vvbn are inserted in the parent indirect blocks in the buffer tree of a file. That is the pvbn and vvbn are stored as a pair for each block pointer in most buffer tree structures that have pointers to other blocks e.g. level 1 L1 indirect blocks inode file level 0 L0 blocks. is a schematic block diagram of an illustrative embodiment of a buffer tree of a file that may be advantageously used with the present invention. A root top level inode such as an embedded inode references indirect e.g. level 1 blocks . Note that there may be additional levels of indirect blocks e.g. level 2 level 3 depending upon the size of the file. The indirect blocks and inode contain pvbn vvbn pointer pair structures that ultimately reference data blocks used to store the actual data of the file.

The pvbns reference locations on disks of the aggregate whereas the vvbns reference locations within files of the flexible volume. The use of pvbns as block pointers in the indirect blocks provides efficiencies in the read paths while the use of vvbn block pointers provides efficient access to required meta data. That is when freeing a block of a file the parent indirect block in the file contains readily available vvbn block pointers which avoids the latency associated with accessing an owner map to perfaun pvbn to vvbn translations yet on the read path the pvbn is available.

Whereas the aggregate is analogous to a physical volume of a conventional storage system a flexible volume is analogous to a file within that physical volume. That is the aggregate may include one or more files wherein each file contains a flexible volume and wherein the sum of the storage space consumed by the flexible volumes is physically smaller than or equal to the size of the overall physical volume. The aggregate utilizes a physical pvbn space that defines a storage space of blocks provided by the disks of the physical volume while each embedded flexible volume within a file utilizes a logical vvbn space to organize those blocks e.g. as files. Each vvbn space is an independent set of numbers that corresponds to locations within the file which locations are then translated to dbns on disks. Since the flexible volume is also a logical volume it has its own block allocation structures e.g. active space and summary maps in its vvbn space.

A container file is a file in the aggregate that contains all blocks used by a flexible volume. The container file is an internal to the aggregate feature that supports a flexible volume illustratively there is one container file per flexible volume. Similar to a pure logical volume in a file approach the container file is a hidden file not accessible to a user in the aggregate that holds every block in use by the flexible volume. The aggregate includes an illustrative hidden meta data root directory that contains subdirectories of flexible volumes 

Specifically a physical file system WAFL directory includes a subdirectory for each flexible volume in the aggregate with the name of subdirectory being a file system identifier fsid of the flexible volume. Each fsid subdirectory flexible volume contains is at least two files a filesystem file and a storage label file. The storage label file is illustratively a 4 kB file that contains meta data similar to that stored in a conventional raid label. In other words the storage label file is the analog of a raid label and as such contains information about the state of the flexible volume such as e.g. the name of the flexible volume a universal unique identifier uuid and fsid of the flexible volume whether it is online being created or being destroyed etc.

In addition to being embodied as a container file having level 1 blocks organized as a container map the filesystem file includes block pointers that reference various file systems embodied as flexible volumes . The aggregate maintains these flexible volumes at special reserved inode numbers. Each flexible volume also has special reserved inode numbers within its flexible volume space that are used for among other things the block allocation bitmap structures. As noted the block allocation bitmap structures e.g. active map summary map and space map are located in each flexible volume.

Specifically each flexible volume has the same inode file structure content as the aggregate with the exception that there is no owner map and no WAFL fsid filesystem file storage label file directory structure in a hidden meta data root directory . To that end each flexible volume has a volinfo block that points to one or more fsinfo blocks each of which may represent a PCPI along with the active file system of the flexible volume. Each fsinfo block in turn points to an inode file that as noted has the same inode structure content as the aggregate with the exceptions noted above. Each flexible volume has its own inode file and distinct inode space with corresponding inode numbers as well as its own root fsid directory and subdirectories of files that can be exported separately from other flexible volumes.

The storage label file contained within the hidden meta data root directory of the aggregate is a small file that functions as an analog to a conventional raid label. A raid label includes physical information about the storage system such as the volume name that information is loaded into the storage label file . Illustratively the storage label file includes the name of the associated flexible volume the online offline status of the flexible volume and other identity and state information of the associated flexible volume whether it is in the process of being created or destroyed .

The VOD is a management daemon that continuously executes to service various volume level operations such as volume migration operations. In the illustrative embodiment VOD interfaces with the management framework and the VLDB to receive commands and access various data structures respectively. Moreover as described further herein the VOD manages the creation generation of parallel PCPIs in a SVS in accordance with the present invention.

The VLDB is a database process that tracks the locations of various storage components e.g. SVSs flexible volumes aggregates etc. within the cluster to thereby facilitate routing of requests throughout the cluster. In the illustrative embodiment the N blade of each node accesses a configuration table that maps the SVS ID of a data container handle to a D blade that owns services the data container within the cluster. The VLDB includes a plurality of entries which in turn provide the contents of entries in the configuration table among other things these VLDB entries keep track of the locations of the flexible volumes hereinafter generally volumes and aggregates within the cluster. Examples of such VLDB entries include a VLDB volume entry and a VLDB aggregate entry .

The VLDB illustratively implements a RPC interface e.g. a Sun RPC interface which allows the N blade to query the VLDB . When encountering contents of a data container handle that are not stored in its configuration table the N blade sends an RPC to the VLDB process. In response the VLDB returns to the N blade the appropriate mapping information including an ID of the D blade that owns the data container. The N blade caches the information in its configuration table and uses the D blade ID to forward the incoming request to the appropriate data container. All functions and interactions between the N blade and D blade are coordinated on a cluster wide basis through the collection of management processes and the RDB library user mode applications .

To that end the management processes have interfaces to are closely coupled to RDB . The RDB comprises a library that provides a persistent object store storing of objects for the management data processed by the management processes. Notably the RDB replicates and synchronizes the management data object store access across all nodes of the cluster to thereby ensure that the RDB database image is identical on all of the nodes . At system startup each node records the status state of its interfaces and IP addresses those IP addresses it owns into the RDB database.

The present invention is related to a storage system architecture illustratively comprising two or more volumes distributed across a plurality of nodes of cluster . The volumes are organized as a SVS and configured to store content of data containers such as files and luns served by the cluster in response to multi protocol data access requests issued by clients . Notably the content of each data container is apportioned among the volumes of the SVS to thereby improve the efficiency of storage service provided by the cluster. To facilitate a description and understanding of the present invention data containers are hereinafter referred to generally as files .

Specifically the SVS comprises a MDV and one or more data volumes DV . The MDV is configured to store a canonical copy of certain meta data including access control lists ACLs and directories associated with all files stored on the SVS whereas each DV is configured to store at least data content of those files. For each file stored on the SVS one volume is designated a container attribute volume CAV and to that end is configured to store cache certain rapidly changing attribute meta data includes ing time stamps and file length associated with that file to thereby offload access requests that would otherwise be directed to the MDV. In the illustrative embodiment described herein determination of the CAV for a file is based on a simple rule designate the volume holding the first stripe of content data for the file as the CAV for the file. Not only is this simple rule convenient but it also provides an optimization for small files. That is a CAV may be able to perform certain operations without having to communicate with other volumes of the SVS if the file is small enough to fit within the specified stripe width. Ideally the first stripes of data for files are distributed among the DVs of the SVS to thereby facilitate even distribution of CAV designations among the volumes of the SVS. In alternate embodiments data for files is striped across the MDV and the DVs.

In contrast each DV stores only file F inodes and CL inode . According to the storage system architecture a DV does not store directories or other device inodes constructs such as symbolic links however each DV does store F inodes and may store cached copies of ACL inodes that are arranged in the same locations as their respective inodes in the MDV . A particular DV may not store a copy of an inode until an I O request for the data container associated with the inode is received by the D Blade serving a particular DV. Moreover the contents of the files denoted by these F inodes are periodically sparse according to SVS striping rules as described further herein. In addition since one volume is designated the CAV for each file stored on the SVS DV is designated the CAV for the file represented by is inode and DV is the CAV for the files identified by inodes . Accordingly these CAVs cache certain rapidly changing attribute meta data M associated with those files such as e.g. file size as well as access and or modification time stamps .

In addition the SVS is associated with a set of striping rules that define a stripe algorithm a stripe width and an ordered list of volumes within the SVS. The striping rules for each SVS are illustratively stored as an entry of VLDB and accessed by SVS ID. is a schematic block diagram of an exemplary VLDB SVS entry in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The VLDB entry includes a SVS ID field and one or more sets of striping rules . In alternate embodiments additional fields may be included. The SVS ID field contains the ID of a SVS which in operation is specified in data container handle .

Each set of striping rules illustratively includes a stripe width field a stripe algorithm ID field an ordered list of volumes field and in alternate embodiments additional fields . The striping rules contain information for identifying the organization of a SVS. For example the stripe algorithm ID field identifies a striping algorithm used with the SVS. In the illustrative embodiment multiple striping algorithms could be used with a SVS accordingly stripe algorithm ID is needed to identify which particular algorithm is utilized. Each striping algorithm in turn specifies the manner in which file content is apportioned as stripes across the plurality of volumes of the SVS. The stripe width field specifies the size width of each stripe. The ordered list of volumes field contains the IDs of the volumes comprising the SVS. Moreover the ordered list of volumes may specify the function and implementation of the various volumes and striping rules of the SVS. For example the first volume in the ordered list may denote the MDV of the SVS whereas the ordering of volumes in the list to may denote the manner of implementing a particular striping algorithm e.g. round robin.

As noted a Locate function is provided that enables the VSM and other modules such as those of N blade to locate a D blade and its associated volume of a SVS in order to service an access request to a file. The Locate function takes as arguments at least i a SVS ID ii an offset within the file iii the inode number for the file and iv a set of striping rules and returns the volume on which that offset begins within the SVS . For example assume a data access request directed to a file is issued by a client and received at the N blade of a node where it is parsed through the multi protocol engine to the appropriate protocol server of N blade .

To determine the location of a D blade to which to transmit a CF message the N blade may first retrieve a SVS entry to acquire the striping rules and list of volumes associated with the SVS. The N blade then executes the Locate function to identify the appropriate volume to which to direct an operation. Thereafter the N Blade may retrieve the appropriate VLDB volume entry to identify the aggregate containing the volume and the appropriate VLDB aggregate entry to ultimately identify the appropriate D blade . The protocol server of N blade then transmits the CF message to the D blade .

In accordance with an illustrative round robin striping algorithm volume A contains a stripe of file content or data D followed in sequence by two stripes of sparseness S another stripe of data D and two stripes of sparseness S . Volume B on the other hand contains a stripe of sparseness S followed in sequence by a stripe of data D two stripes of sparseness S another stripe of data D and a stripe of sparseness S . Volume continues the round robin striping pattern and to that end contains two stripes of sparseness S followed in sequence by a stripe of data D two stripes of sparseness S and another stripe of data D .

The file system such as the WAFL file system illustratively has the capability to generate a snapshot of its active file system. An active file system is a file system to which data can be both written and read or more generally an active store that responds to both read and write I O operations. It should be noted that snapshot is a trademark of Network Appliance Inc. and is used for purposes of this patent to designate a persistent consistency point CP image. A persistent consistency point image PCPI is a space conservative point in time read only image of data accessible by name that provides a consistent image of that data such as a storage system at some previous time. More particularly a PCPI is a point in time representation of a storage element such as an active file system file volume or database stored on a storage device e.g. on disk or other persistent memory and having a name or other identifier that distinguishes it from other PCPIs taken at other points in time.

In the case of the WAFL file system a PCPI is always an active file system image that contains complete information about the file system including all meta data. A PCPI can also include other information meta data about the active file system at the particular point in time for which the image is taken. The terms PCPI and snapshot may be used interchangeably through out this patent without derogation of Network Appliance s trademark rights. In the example of a WAFL file system snapshots are described in TR3002 FILE SYSTEM DESIGN FOR A NFS FILE SERVER APPLIANCE by David Hitz et al. published by Network Appliance Inc. and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 819 292 entitled METHOD FOR MAINTAINING CONSISTENT STATES OF A FILE SYSTEM AND FOR CREATING USER ACCESSIBLE READ ONLY COPIES OF A FILE SYSTEM by David Hitz et al. each of which is hereby incorporated by reference as though full set forth herein.

Broadly stated a PCPI is stored in persistent storage along with the active file system and is called into the memory of the storage system as requested by the storage operating system. The organization of the snapshot and the active file system can be understood from the following description of an exemplary file system inode structure shown in . The inode for an inode file contains information describing the is inode file associated with a file system. In this exemplary file system inode structure the inode for the inode file contains a pointer that references points to an inode file indirect block . The inode file indirect block contains a set of pointers that reference inode file blocks each of which contains an array of inodes which in turn contain pointers to indirect blocks . The indirect blocks include pointers to file data blocks A B and C. Each of the file data blocks A C is capable of storing e.g. 4 kB of data.

When the file system generates a PCPI of its active file system a PCPI inode is generated as shown in . The PCPI inode is in essence a duplicate copy of the inode for the inode file of the file system that shares common parts such as inodes and blocks with the active file system. For example the exemplary file system structure includes the inode file indirect blocks inodes indirect blocks and file data blocks A C as in . When a user modifies a file data block the file system writes the new data block to disk and changes the active file system to point to the newly created block. shows an exemplary inode file system structure after a file data block has been modified. In this example file data block C is modified to file data block C . As a result the contents of the modified file data block are written to a new location on disk as a function of the exemplary file system. Because of this new location the indirect block must be rewritten. Due to this changed indirect block the inode must be rewritten. Similarly the inode file indirect block and the inode for the inode file must be rewritten.

Thus after a file data block has been modified the PCPI inode contains a pointer to the original inode file indirect block which in turn contains pointers through the inode and indirect block to the original file data blocks A B and C. The newly written indirect block also includes pointers to unmodified file data blocks A and B. That is the unmodified data blocks in the file of the active file system are shared with corresponding data blocks in the PCPI file with only those blocks that have been modified in the active file system being different than those of the PCPI file.

However the indirect block further contains a pointer to the modified file data block C representing the new arrangement of the active file system. A new is inode for the inode file is established representing the new structure . Note that meta data not shown stored in any snapshotted blocks e.g. and C protects these blocks from being recycled or overwritten until they are released from all snapshots. Thus while the active file system inode for the inode file points to new blocks A B and C the old blocks and C are retained until the snapshot is fully released.

The present invention is directed to a system and method for efficiently generating a set of parallel PCPIs of volumes configured as a SVS and served by a plurality of nodes interconnected as a cluster. The VOD executing on a node of the cluster is configured to manage generation of the volume PCPIs. Notably the set of PCPIs is generated substantially in parallel to thereby obtain a consistent and accurate point in time reference of the entire SVS. The resulting point in time reference provides the basis for various volume based operations in the cluster including volume migration image transfer and mirroring operations.

According to an illustrative embodiment of the present invention an administrator initiates the creation of the PCPIs by issuing a PCPI generation command to a volume operations daemon VOD . In alternate embodiments the initiation of a PCPI may be performed by automated processes e.g. based on a timer etc. In response the VOD informs the VSM of the meta data volume MDV to initiate a parallel or synchronized PCPI of the SVS. The VSM for the MDV then generates a CP and sends a request to each VSM serving a data volume DV of the striped volume set to generate a CP. Each of the VSMs then generates a CP of the appropriate DV. These priming CPs are utilized to flush the majority of dirty data out of any caches and to enable later PCPI productions an expedited basis. Once the VSM of the MDV receives an acknowledgment from each DV that it has generated an initial priming CP the VSM of the MDV sets a first marker and sends a first message to each DV. Upon receipt the VSM for each DV sets a first marker and returns an acknowledgement to the VSM of the MDV. After receiving an acknowledgment from each DV the VSM of the MDV sets a second marker and generates a PCPI of the MDV. The VSM also sends a perform synchronized PCPI request to each DV which causes the VSM for each DV to set a second marker and to generate a PCPI of the DV. The VSM of the MDV then sends a complete synchronized PCPI request to each DV which causes the VSMs for each DV to remove the first and second markers and to return an acknowledgement. Once the MDV has received acknowledgements from each DV the VSM for the MDV then removes its first and second markers. At this point the synchronized PCPIs have been generated.

Once the VSM of the MDV has received acknowledgements from each DV it then in step sets a first marker that causes the VSM to complete any partially completed delete and modify set attribute operations. The first marker also alerts the VSM to hold any newly received delete and modify set attribute operations until after the parallel PCPIs are generated. This marker may be stored in the local storage of a node or may be stored in any other suitable form of persistent storage. Then in step the VSM of the MDV sends a preparatory message to each DV which causes in step the VSM for each DV to set a first marker. This first marker alerts the VSM of each DV to hold any newly received delete and modify set attribute operations until after the parallel PCPIs are generated. The VSM of each DV then returns an acknowledgement in step .

Once the VSM of the MDV has received an acknowledgement from each DV it then in step sets a second marker. This second marker causes all partially completed operations that modify the file system to be completed and causes any newly received operations that modify the file system to be held until the completion of the PCPI. The VSM of the MDV then in step generates a PCPI of the MDV. This PCPI is the PCPI that is utilized as part of the parallel PCPI of the SVS. Additionally the VSM of the MDV sends a request to perform a synchronized PCPI to the VSM of each DV in the SVS. In response the VSM of each DV sets a second marker and generates a PCPI of the volume in step . Each VSM of the DVs sends an acknowledgement back to the VSM of the MDV once the second marker has been set. Once the VSM of the MDV has received acknowledgements from all DVs it then in step sends a request to complete the synchronized PCPI to each DV. In response the VSM of each DV removes the first and second markers in step before the procedure completes in step . Thus the present invention permits a set of parallel and synchronized PCPIs to be generated of the volumes comprising a SVS.

It should be noted that the use of two markers is illustrative only and that the present invention may be utilized with only the second marker. The first marker is illustratively provided to enable those operations that are less frequently invoked and which may take a longer period of time to complete e.g. a cross stripe write that spans two or more of the SVS s have sufficient time to be appropriately fenced before fencing more common low cost operations. The second marker is utilized to provide a barrier to more common operations e.g. a conventional read write operation that do not take a significant amount of time to complete. Using two markers prevents the barrier synchronization associated with time consuming operations from disrupting the performance of lower cost operations i.e. time consuming operations halting faster operations from being processed. Alternative embodiments can use two or more marker types to isolate the synchronization costs of earlier markers operation classes from later markers operation classes.

While there has been shown and described illustrative embodiments of a system and method for generating a set of synchronized parallel persistent consistency point images PCPIs of a set of volumes it is to be understood that various other adaptations and modifications may be made within the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the volumes included in a set may be heterogenous for example provided by multiple vendors and or using various data types and or organizations. The volumes may also comprise multiple distributed components such as nested sets of volumes. Other adaptations and or modifications may include application of volumes striped by a host side or switchbased volume managers. As such the principles of the present invention may be implemented in non SVS environments. More generally the present invention may be utilized to generate consistent images of any collection of data objects. The data objects may comprise luns volumes etc. Additionally while the generation of PCPIs has been shown and described any technique for generating a consistent image of a data object at a particular point in time may be utilized.

The clients may be general purpose computers configured to interact with the storage systems in accordance with a client server model of information delivery. That is each client may request the services of the storage system and the storage system may return the results of the services requested by the client by exchanging packets over the network . The client may issue packets including file based access protocols such as the Common Internet File System CIFS protocol or Network File System NFS protocol over the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP when accessing information in the form of files and directories. Alternatively the client may issue packets including block based access protocols such as the Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI protocol encapsulated over TCP iSCSI and SCSI encapsulated over Fibre Channel FCP when accessing information in the form of blocks.

The storage systems may comprise any form of storage system including for example a NAS server a SAN server a multi protocol SAN NAS server etc. Each storage system may service one or more data objects or portions of data objects . For example each storage system may service a lun. A volume manager not shown executing on the client may logically organize the luns serviced by the storage systems into another logical abstraction for use by clients.

Also executing within the environment is an agent that manages the creation of point in time images of the data objects. It should be noted that the agent may execute on a storage system a client or on a separate computer within the environment e.g. a management station not shown .

Once the agent has received acknowledgments from each of the storage systems the agent then in step sends a second message to each of the storage systems. Each storage system sets a second marker and returns an acknowledgement in step . The second marker causes each storage system to complete any in progress operations that modify the data objects and to hold all newly received operations until the consistent image is created.

Once the agent receives acknowledgements from each of the storage systems regarding the second message the agent sends a commit message to each of the storage systems in step . In response each storage system generates a consistent image of the data object s that it serves and then removes the first and second markers in step . Once the persistent image is created and the markers removed the storage system may resume processing of operations that modify the data object. The procedure then completes in step .

It should be noted that in an alternate embodiment the first message and first marker steps may be omitted and still generate an acceptable consistent image of the data objects.

The foregoing description has been directed to particular embodiments of this invention. It will be apparent however that other variations and modifications may be is made to the described embodiments with the attainment of some or all of their advantages. Specifically it should be noted that the principles of the present invention may be implemented in non distributed file systems. Furthermore while this description has been written in terms of N and D blades the teachings of the present invention are equally suitable to systems where the functionality of the N and D blades are implemented in a single system. Alternately the functions of the N and D blades may be distributed among any number of separate systems wherein each system performs one or more of the functions. Additionally the procedures processes and or modules described herein may be implemented in hardware software embodied as a computer readable medium having program instructions firmware or a combination thereof. Therefore it is the object of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

