---

title: Dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance in wireless networks
abstract: Dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance in wireless networks may involve switching channels while maintaining connectivity in wireless ad hoc networks. In a described implementation, a wireless network may be separated into two or more respective virtual wireless networks with respective wireless node subsets operating on respective channels. Connectivity may nevertheless be maintained when a wireless node on one channel is to send a communication to another wireless node on another wireless channel. In another described implementation, monitored network information may be shared among wireless nodes by broadcast.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07680089&OS=07680089&RS=07680089
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07680089
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061116
---
Some wireless networks are pre planned and centrally controlled. A single provider usually organizes all of the wireless nodes and installs the infrastructure. Operationally a centralized managing agent has access to a wealth of knowledge about how the wireless network is functioning. Consequently such pre planned and centrally controlled wireless networks can avoid or rapidly respond to the problems that typify wireless networks such as poor signal coverage interference channel reuse communication routing and so forth.

Wireless ad hoc networks on the other hand do not usually involve significant pre planning or centralized control. One or perhaps a few wireless nodes are often established by individuals. These individuals activate their respective wireless nodes which are designed to automatically interoperate with other wireless nodes that are established by other individuals. However these wireless nodes are designed to directly interact with only a few other wireless nodes such as neighbor nodes. Consequently because of a lack of higher level coordination ad hoc wireless networks are generally more susceptible to traditional wireless network problems.

Dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance in wireless networks may involve switching channels while maintaining connectivity in wireless ad hoc networks. In a described implementation a wireless network may be separated into two or more respective virtual wireless networks with respective wireless node subsets operating on respective channels. Connectivity may nevertheless be maintained when a wireless node on one channel is to send a communication to another wireless node on another wireless channel. In another described implementation monitored network information may be shared among wireless nodes by broadcast.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. Moreover other method system scheme apparatus device media procedure API arrangement etc. implementations are described herein.

As described herein above because of a lack of higher level coordination ad hoc wireless networks are generally more susceptible to traditional wireless network problems. On the other hand ad hoc wireless networks are generally convenient because of their self organization feature especially in locations in which an access point AP is not available or is not accessible to all relevant users.

With the increasing popularity of wireless ad hoc networks more and more people are using them for file sharing gaining media streaming and so forth. With the greater numbers of active wireless connections however there is performance degradation for all users. For example a channel defined in IEEE 802.11b provides 11 Mbps of raw physical layer bandwidth but the effective bandwidth for one TCP connection may be only about 5 Mbps because the residual bandwidth is occupied by protocol overhead from the transport layer to the MAC Media Access Control and PHY Physical layers. Consequently the effective bandwidth provided to any one user drops greatly as the number of users grows and the contention for access to the wireless channel accelerates the deterioration because even more bandwidth is wasted in the access conflicts.

Yet all of this traffic need not be placed on a single wireless channel. Multiple orthogonal channels are defined e.g. in IEEE standards. For instance there are 3 orthogonal channels for 802.11b and 13 for 802.11a. These orthogonal channels provide a capability for interference mitigation among different nearby wireless networks. However more efficient utilization of these orthogonal channels can also conquer or at least reduce the wireless interference that widely exists within a single wireless ad hoc network.

For example assume that there are four nodes namely A B C D in an 802.11b wireless ad hoc network working on channel . Also assume that there is a TCP connection between nodes A and B. If another TCP connection is functioning between nodes C and D then the two TCP connections contend for the wireless channel. However if the connection between nodes C and D is moved to another orthogonal channel such as channel for 801.11b then the two connections are not in conflict and can occupy the full bandwidth of one channel. After nodes C and D finish their transmission they can be returned to channel to maintain the overall network connectivity.

It is apparent based on this example that the multi channel capabilities of wireless ad hoc networks can be leveraged to improve their performance. Moreover a suitable channel assignment CA algorithm can be performed by each node in a dynamic and distributed way so that the resulting wireless ad hoc network retains the aforementioned self organization feature.

There are several challenges in effectively realizing a practical distributed algorithm that considers dynamic CA in wireless ad hoc networks. Four example challenges are described below. First for wireless nodes having only a single radio two different wireless nodes communicating on two different orthogonal channels cannot communicate with each other. There is therefore a challenge in maintaining network connectivity when wireless nodes are communicating on orthogonal channels.

Second for a dynamic CA algorithm the distributed aspect may entail implementing a trigger method to make the CA decision both accurate and fast. Otherwise existing traffic may be affected by interference and or congestion prior to channel assignment. Third the channel switching may entail the use of a channel switching protocol that operates quickly to enable the wireless nodes that change channels to continue communicating shortly after the channel change. Fourth a mechanism may be adopted for selecting a target channel.

These challenges are not addressed by any existing approach. Existing theoretical works commonly assume perfect MAC i.e. no collisions due to perfect slot allocation . They also assume that a centralized controller has all the requisite information which makes their theoretical algorithm difficult to apply in real world deployments. Furthermore existing distributed algorithms primarily address channel assignment issues as theoretical optimization problems as a result they fail to produce a practical solution that works on currently commercialized hardware.

In contrast certain implementations described herein can be employed on currently commercialized hardware. For example a described implementation entails a software module that can coordinate currently commercialized hardware devices such as network interface cards NICs at each wireless node for dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance CACM . However CACM may generally be implemented in hardware firmware software some combination thereof and so forth.

Additionally certain described implementations can address one or more of the above identified challenges. For example traffic information on the channel that a wireless node is operating on may be exchanged by broadcast between nodes to provide accurate and faster triggering for channel switching. Hence traffic information on other channels can also be obtained through back ground channel scanning. For channel assignment changes a channel switching protocol is described that can provide synchronized channel switching. A mechanism is also described to maintain the connectivity between multiple and up to all nodes of a wireless ad hoc network even when wireless nodes are currently working on different channels that are orthogonal.

Dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance may be implemented in any general wireless network. However an example wireless ad hoc network is illustrated in and described below.

Each wireless node may be in wireless communication with one or more other wireless nodes via at least one wireless communications link . To enable wireless communication each wireless node includes at least one radio . Although only one radio is shown each wireless node may have any number of radios .

Each radio enables a wireless node to communicate on a wireless channel. Each radio is typically capable of communicating via links in accordance with at least one wireless standard. Example wireless standards include but are not limited to IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g other IEEE 802.11 standards UWB and so forth.

With current technology each radio is only capable of communicating on one channel at any given moment. To communicate on a second channel a single radio switches from a first channel. Consequently a wireless node having one radio is capable of communicating on a single channel at any given moment.

In this section example general implementations for dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance in wireless networks are described. illustrates an example of a virtual wireless network created when a subset of wireless nodes switch to a different channel. illustrates a general example method for dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance in wireless networks. Subsequent sections describe more specific implementations.

When each node of a subset of the V nodes is to switch from a first channel to a second channel this channel assignment creates two subsets of nodes that form two virtual wireless networks. These wireless nodes that are switching channels are represented by circle . These channel switching nodes form a second virtual wireless network and are labeled S. The remaining wireless nodes that do not switch channels are represented by the remainder of the rectangular block . These non switching wireless nodes which are labeled V S form a first virtual wireless network that continues on the original first channel of the wireless ad hoc network. It should be noted that reference numbers and are used herein below to represent respective sub sets of wireless nodes and or the respective virtual wireless networks formed by the wireless nodes.

Wireless nodes may communicate on a second channel that is orthogonal to the first channel on which non switching wireless nodes continue to communicate. This enables the total wireless nodes to communicate at a greater bandwidth because of the reduced interference and channel access contention and because the bandwidth of two channels are being utilized.

To create these two virtual wireless networks and wireless nodes initially agree to jointly switch channels. Additionally to maintain the overall network connectivity all or a portion of wireless nodes and or wireless nodes agree to switch to a common channel as appropriate to communicate packets there between. In fact wireless nodes and may reform the overall wireless network from time to time. These channel assignment changes to create virtual wireless networks and to maintain connectivity are described generally herein below with particular reference to .

More specific example implementations are described below in Sections 3 and 4. They entail for example a mechanism for triggering a channel switch and a mechanism for maintaining connectivity which may be activated especially when an incoming communication is destined for a wireless node that is currently in a different virtual wireless network. In order to know which channels are available and which wireless nodes are on which channels example implementations may include a network information broadcast mechanism. A channel switching protocol is also described.

In a described implementation starting at block local network information is monitored. For example a wireless node may monitor network information on a wireless channel on which the wireless node is currently operating. Network information may include by way of example but not limitation membership information and traffic information. Network information is transmitted in a broadcast and received from other nodes in a beacon process of actions that are illustrated by block and block respectively.

At block local membership information and traffic information are broadcast. For example wireless node may broadcast its node identification ID and its local traffic information. Other nodes may receive and process this traffic information. Meanwhile these other nodes are likewise monitoring and broadcasting their own nodal IDs and traffic information. An example broadcast format and content is described herein below with particular reference to .

At block membership information and traffic information from other nodes are received. For example wireless node may receive node IDs and traffic information which has been observed by other nodes and broadcast by them on their current channels. The actions of blocks and may be repeated by each wireless node periodically.

At block it is determined if a current wireless channel is over utilized. For example it may be determined if a channel on which wireless node is currently operating is so busy as to be inefficient based on a predetermined threshold. If the current operational channel is not over utilized then the monitoring continues at block . If on the other hand the current operational channel is over utilized then the method of flow diagram continues at block .

At block a targeted channel for switching is identified using received traffic information. For example traffic information that is received from other nodes at block may be used to determine an orthogonal channel that is not currently over utilized.

At block a channel switching procedure is implemented. For example a protocol enabling a subset of wireless nodes to switch channels may be implemented. An example channel switching protocol is described herein below with particular reference to .

At block communication with the switched node s may commence. For example with each of the nodes in the subset that is to form a new virtual private network agreeing to the channel assignment change communication may commence shortly after the channel switch in accordance with the protocol of .

At block a connectivity maintenance procedure may be performed. For example a common channel may be established or reestablished between two or more nodes of at least two different virtual wireless networks. This procedure may be activated when for example communication between the two or more nodes is requested. Connectivity maintenance may be performed in conjunction with an exchange of information with the beacon process because the beacon process provides nodal IDs and the channels on which nodes are currently operating as well as traffic information. An example connectivity maintenance procedure is described herein below with particular reference to flow diagram of .

Examples of the actions of blocks and are described in greater detail below in Section 4.1. Examples of the actions of blocks and are described in greater detail in Section 4.2. Examples of the actions of blocks and are described in greater detail in Section 4.3. And examples of the action s of block are described with greater specificity in Section 4.4.

In a described implementation for channel assignment and connectivity maintenance CACM channels are adaptively assigned to each node in a wireless ad hoc network. A CACM module may be located between a MAC layer and a routing layer.

As illustrated the architecture of CACM module includes three 3 modules . These three modules are a connectivity maintenance CM module a channel assignment CA module and a traffic measurement information exchange module . Channel assignment module may communicate with the MAC Layer .

In a described implementation mechanisms for CA and CM may operate as follows. For CA nodes that have no active traffic connection are assigned to a different channel to reduce the interference and thereby improve the performance of the wireless ad hoc network. The nodes in an ad hoc network are intentionally separated into node subsets. The nodes belonging to one of the node subsets are moved to an orthogonal channel to reduce the interference between the node subsets. Dividing nodes into node subsets is described above in Section 2 with particular reference to and below in Section 4.1.

When a new traffic request arrives e.g. from a higher layer of the network stack for a connection between two nodes that are currently in different node subsets and therefore on different channels the CM functionality switches the node subsets to the same channel or at least the two nodes that are to communicate . As a result of this merging of the subsets each of the nodes in the ad hoc wireless network that has an active traffic connection is communicating on the same wireless channel. Because traffic requirements between nodes are dynamic CA module and CM module can be operated dynamically and deployed in a distributed manner.

For an example implementation operations for a CM module a CA module and a traffic measurement information exchange module are described. With regard to traffic measurement information exchange module each node measures the traffic rate e.g. the bandwidth to and from each of its neighbor nodes. It also explicitly exchanges its measured traffic information with its neighbors by broadcasting. The traffic information that is broadcasted from each node and that is received at each node is stored and the active connectivity information can be deduced from the stored traffic information for the use with CA decisions.

With regard to CA module each node periodically checks whether it should switch channels with other nodes. If so it performs a corresponding channel switch under the protocol described in Section 4.3.

With regard to CM module connectivity maintenance is provided by switching nodes that are on different channels to the same channel. In other words two nodal subsets that are operating on different orthogonal channels may be merged into a set that is operating on a single channel.

Because a channel assignment may be triggered many times e.g. node sets may be divided into subsets many times and connectivity maintenance may be activated many times e.g. node subsets may be merged many times it may become difficult or even impossible to track what channel each node has switched to based solely on notifications that may be issued at the time of a given channel change in accordance with the protocol of . An example implementation as described herein below with particular reference to involves a membership information identification mechanism in which wireless network subset information is broadcast.

In a described implementation an example CACM procedure may be described in four parts. The first three parts are performed at least partially in CA module . The fourth part is performed at least partially in CM module . Generally each of the following four parts are involved in the distributed CACM algorithm at each wireless node 

1 A node say node i identifies that the current channel say channel l on which the node is communicating is over utilized.

2 The node identifies a target channel say channel l and target nodes for channel reassignment by switching their channel together. The channel reassignment may be carried out especially if throughput is predicted to be improved.

3 The node starts a channel switching protocol with the target nodes and reconnects with them after the channel switching.

4 Connectivity maintenance is activated for the nodes that switch channels and the nodes that remain on the original channel.

In a described implementation the channel assignment is triggered when a node i senses that the current channel is over utilized. Over utilization indicates for example that traffic from other nodes is interfering with the communication for node i on the current channel. Initially traffic information is collected and exchanged by broadcast. This broadcast is described below in Section 4.2 with particular reference to . For each node traffic is measured from each neighbor node as well as to each neighbor node that is active.

Interference can therefore be determined by how much the percentage of interfering traffic affects the communication for node i. For example the throughput ratio r for node i on channel l r can be used as the trigger for channel assignment. When ris lower than a pre defined threshold Th at node i on channel l a CA procedure can be triggered.

The triggering throughput ratio ris defined as the ratio of i the throughput achieved by node i and nodes that have active traffic connection s with node i over ii the whole throughput for each of the nodes that are active on channel l. The trigger can be written as r

Because channel assignment involves some nodes switching to a different channel while leaving others on the current channel network subsets are created. A first node subset includes the nodes that do not switch channels and that remain on the first or original channel. A second node subset includes the nodes that switch to the second or different channel.

Upon the channel switching the connectivity between the two node subsets is broken at least temporarily. Thus for a described implementation the two node subsets are defined such that there is no active traffic connection between any two respective nodes that are in different respective node subsets. A mechanism to maintain the connectivity between the two node subsets after channel switching is described below in Section 4.4 with particular reference to . Maintaining connectivity is particularly relevant when a traffic request arrives that is to bridge the two node subsets to be completed.

An example algorithm for triggering channel assignments is formally described below. For a general described implementation however a node subset is defined initially with respect to a given single node. Any node that is directly or indirectly part of an active traffic communication with this given node can form part of the second network subset S of . The other nodes in the network can form part of the first network subset V S. If the traffic throughput rate of the second network subset relative to the total traffic rate throughout of the entire network V is sufficiently small then the second network subset is switched to a different channel to create a second virtual network .

For a formal description of an example algorithm assume there is a wireless ad hoc network with V number of nodes. Let V denote the set of the nodes. The nodes are numbered N N. . . N. Each node is equipped with at least one wireless interface e.g. a NIC that is capable of communicating on multiple channels but only one at a time. Assume the node that has the trigger is named node Nand that the node set Scontains the nodes that will switch channels with node N. The link from node Nto Nis denoted as link l and the traffic rate on lis denoted as T. If T 0 then link lis defined as active otherwise it is considered inactive.

For a described implementation pseudo code for an example CACM trigger algorithm is provided below. If the returned value is a valid node set S then node Ninitiates a channel switching procedure. Otherwise node Nceases the current procedure when FALSE is returned.

With respect to the pseudo code above the routine is initialized by setting the node subset Sto include node N. Lines 1 4 define the potential second subset of nodes S. Generally each node in the network that has traffic with node Nor with another node that has traffic with Nis added to subset S. The connectivity chain may be extended in this manner until each node throughout the network is checked for whether it is to be included withing subset S. Lines 5 7 ascertain a ratio of the traffic rate Tof the subset Sto the total traffic rate Tof the entire network V. This traffic ratio ris compared to a trigger threshold Thto determine whether a channel assignment is to occur.

The target channel for channel assignment is selected. To do so traffic information on other channels is first collected. One possible approach is to scan the other channels and join whatever network is found. However joining a network costs time and involves additional signaling message exchanges. Instead traffic information may be collected and exchanged using beacons broadcast by individual nodes.

In a described implementation each node continuously performs a back ground scan on each channel to collect traffic information on other channels. When a given node is connected to other nodes on one channel the given node can still scan other channels to find other nodes. When performing a scan the given node can obtain network information from the other nodes that are found on the other channels by receiving a beacon frame from the other nodes. Alternatively a given node may send a probe frame and then receive a corresponding response frame that has the network information.

In a described implementation network information includes at least membership information M and traffic information T. Membership information M may include by way of example but not limitation node identifications IDs and a total number of nodes. Node IDs may be names numbers hash values and so forth. Traffic information T may include by way of example but not limitation the amount of traffic that is sent outgoing traffic and or the amount of traffic that is received incoming traffic . The amount of traffic may be specified in terms of packets per unit of time bits per unit of time and so forth. Traffic information T may also indicate a traffic type or types e.g. TCP UDP etc. .

Network information is broadcast by each wireless node in a beacon frame . Hence each node collects network information on a per channel basis. The nodal distance of network information that is measured or otherwise acquired by each node may be set to any level. However for a described one hop implementation each node collects and then broadcasts network information for a nodal distance of one hop.

Beacon frame may be implemented in any manner in any wireless network that is operating in accordance with any wireless standard. However for a described implementation beacon frame may be implemented in a wireless ad hoc network that is operating in accordance with an IEEE 802.11 standard. In an example IEEE 802.11 implementation beacon frame is implemented as part of an Information Element MAC frame .

As illustrated Information Element MAC frame includes three portions element ID E length L and information I. Example sizes of each portion are shown on . Both element ID E and length L are one octet in length. Element ID E contains an identifier for the type of Information Element MAC frame . Length L contains a variable indicating the length of Information I. Membership information M and or traffic information T can be placed in Information I.

More specifically when a node is connected to some other nodes on one channel IEEE 802.11 standards define that a node can scan other channels to find other nodes. In the 802.11 MAC a field named Information Element IE is defined for a Beacon and Response frame. The format is represented by Information Element MAC frame . The traffic information and or the membership information for the current channel may be piggy backed in the IE field of the beacon and response frame. Consequently other nodes can obtain such information when they perform a standardized scan procedure.

Regardless of which wireless standard is being followed beacon frame may be broadcast by wireless node . Beacon frame contains network information which includes membership information M and or traffic information T. Thus a node can use the traffic information obtained from a back ground scan to select the least busy channel as the target channel for channel switching.

An example operation for channel switching negotiation is described. It is applicable when a node Ndetermines that a channel assignment change is to be attempted as is described herein above in Section 4.1.

If node Ndecides to switch channels with a set of nodes namely S N it sends a CA request message to S N by broadcast. CA request message indicates that node Nwishes to switch channels from l to l and expects the nodes in S N to follow thereby switching together. Each node Nprovides feedback via uni east with an ACK NACK message to confirm reject the switching request. If the result is a NACK message or no feedback is received at node Nafter a timeout then node Nregards the channel switching request as having failed for a node N.

Otherwise both node Nand the nodes in S N start a timer for channel switching and broadcast a CA notification message . CA notification message is broadcast n. times toward their neighbor nodes. CA notification message is broadcast n times so as to ensure that the message will be successfully received with a high probability. Although it may be set to any number a described implementation sets nto be so that the message is broadcast three times. After CA notification message is broadcast the selected number of times the nodes of S including node N switch channels from channel l to channel l . The nodes in V S on the other hand remain on the original channel .

When a subset of nodes has switched channels overall network connectivity is broken at least temporarily. From time to time this connectivity may need to be reestablished. To handle these situations connectivity maintenance is activated.

Whenever a node say node N receives a packet from a higher protocol stack layer with a destination node say node N that has switched channels with some other nodes the connectivity between nodes Nand Nstill needs to be maintained. Hence node Nis to locate node Nin order to deliver the packet. A possible straightforward approach to locate node Nis for node Nto scan all of the channels join whatever network it detects and then send some signaling message packet s to query the existence of node N. However this straightforward approach is time intensive because besides the time for scanning it requires additional time for joining a network and for exchanging messages.

In contrast for a described implementation network information that is broadcast on beacon frame is utilized to locate the destination node. A node Nwith a packet to be transmitted to a destination node Nlistens for network information that are broadcast from other nodes. Hence node Ncan verify whether destination node N is in a particular virtual ad hoc wireless network without joining it and without sending additional probe packets.

For example the actions of flow diagram may be performed by a wireless node in conjunction with network information of a beacon frame . Additionally the beacon process of blocks and is considered to be functioning concurrently. In this connectivity maintenance procedure example assume a node Nis trying to locate a node N.

In a described implementation starting at block a wireless node retains network information that is received from other nodes. For example the wireless node Nmay receive membership information and traffic information from other nodes as part of the beacon process. In other words each node including node N encodes the network information it has detected on its current channel in a beacon frame. For an example IEEE 802.11 implementation the IE field of a Beacon and Response frame may be used.

More specifically wireless node may receive on a particular channel at least one beacon frame that includes network information that is broadcast from another wireless node . As part of membership information M wireless node collects node IDs.

At block the wireless node associates respective node IDs with respective channels. For example wireless node may associate respective ones of the collected node IDs with the respective particular channels on which beacon frames were received. The associations may be stored in for example a table or other data structure.

At block the wireless node receives a communication request for a destination node that is in a different virtual wireless network. For example a node in virtual wireless network may receive a communication for a destination node that is in virtual wireless network .

At block the wireless node ascertains the channel that is associated with the destination node. For example wireless node may access a table to locate an entry including the node ID of the destination node. The associated channel may be retrieved from the table by extracting it from the entry.

At block the wireless node scans beacon frames to determine the current channel of the destination node starting with the ascertained associated channel. For example wireless node may scan each of the channels that it is capable of receiving transmissions on given its specific radio and the relevant wireless communications standard under which it is operating.

By way of example only for an IEEE 802.11 implementation node Nmay perform a standardized scan as defined in the IEEE 802.11 MAC. It is likely faster to first scan the channel that was obtained by node Nfrom overhearing node N s broadcast indicating its target channel assignment because there is a high probability that Nis still on the indicated channel.

At block the wireless node verifies the presence of the destination node by checking network information included in a frame. For example the frame may be a beacon frame or a response frame from a transmitted probe.

By way of example only for an IEEE 802.11 implementation the existence of node Nmay be verified by checking the IE field received by a Beacon frame or a Response frame on any channel that node Nhas scanned. The node Nmay receive multiple valid IEs that contain such information especially when node Nhas recently switched channels and the outdated information has not yet been updated. In these cases the network information having the largest timestamp value may be selected. The timestamp can be obtained by letting node Nencode its own value into its IE field or a MAC frame timestamp may be used.

At block the wireless node switches to the current channel of the destination node. For example wireless node may individually switch to the other virtual wireless network or it may implement a channel switching procedure to have each of the nodes in its virtual wireless network change channels to the current channel of the destination node. Alternatively the node Nmay ask the node Nto switch to its current channel.

As illustrated two devices and are capable of engaging in message communication transmissions via network . Message communications include by way of example but not limitation the exchange of wireless network parameters e.g. by broadcast or specific inquiry interactions to effectuate a channel assignment switching operation with a subset of nodes and so forth. Although two devices are specifically shown one or more than two devices may be employed depending on implementation.

Generally a device may represent any computer or processing capable device such as a server device a workstation or other general computer device a data storage repository apparatus a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone a gaming platform an entertainment device a router computing node a mesh network node some combination thereof and so forth. As illustrated device includes one or more input output I O interfaces at least one processor and one or more media . Media include processor executable instructions .

In a described implementation of device I O interfaces may include i a network interface for communicating across network ii a display device interface for displaying information on a display screen iii one or more man machine interfaces and so forth. Examples of i network interfaces include a network card a modem one or more ports a network communications stack a radio and so forth. Examples of ii display device interfaces include a graphics driver a graphics card a hardware or software driver for a screen or monitor and so forth. Examples of iii man machine interfaces include those that communicate by wire or wirelessly to man machine interface devices e.g. a keyboard a remote a mouse or other graphical pointing device etc. .

Generally processor is capable of executing performing and or otherwise effectuating processor executable instructions such as processor executable instructions . Media is comprised of one or more processor accessible media. In other words media may include processor executable instructions that are executable by processor to effectuate the performance of functions by device .

Thus realizations for dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance in wireless networks may be described in the general context of processor executable instructions. Generally processor executable instructions include routines programs applications coding modules protocols objects components metadata and definitions thereof data structures application programming interfaces APIs etc. that perform and or enable particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Processor executable instructions may be located in separate storage media executed by different processors and or propagated over or extant on various transmission media.

Processor s may be implemented using any applicable processing capable technology. Media may be any available media that is included as part of and or accessible by device . It includes volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media and storage and transmission media e.g. wireless or wired communication channels . For example media may include an array of disks or flash memory for longer term mass storage of processor executable instructions random access memory RAM for shorter term storing of instructions that are currently being executed and or otherwise processed link s on network for transmitting communications and so forth.

As specifically illustrated media comprises at least processor executable instructions . Generally processor executable instructions when executed by processor enable device to perform the various functions described herein. Such functions include but are not limited to i those actions that are illustrated in flow diagrams and of ii the transmitting receiving processing etc. of those messages that are illustrated in iii realizing the Layer . CACM module that is illustrated in and so forth.

The devices actions aspects features functions procedures modules data structures protocols wireless nodes messages etc. of are illustrated in diagrams that are divided into multiple blocks. However the order interconnections interrelationships layout etc. in which are described and or shown are not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the blocks can be modified combined rearranged augmented omitted etc. in any manner to implement one or more systems methods devices procedures media apparatuses APIs arrangements etc. for dynamic channel assignment and connectivity maintenance in wireless networks.

Although systems media devices methods procedures apparatuses mechanisms schemes approaches processes arrangements and other implementations have been described in language specific to structural logical algorithmic and functional features and or diagrams it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

