---

title: System for coating floors
abstract: A coating system for floors, containing


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07994251&OS=07994251&RS=07994251
owner: Ecolab USA Inc.
number: 07994251
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060825
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 451 466 filed Oct. 14 2003 the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention is concerned with coating systems for floors which despite regular cleaning and or disinfection with agents that contain antimicrobial components do not turn yellow or become discolored or only undergo such discoloration to a slight extent.

A person skilled in the art generally understands the expression polymer based floor maintenance agents to mean as a rule classical maintenance agents which are capable of being removed by wet chemical treatment. These removable maintenance agents are susceptible to disinfectants particularly those based on alkylamines quaternary ammonium compounds alcohols but also others and no longer meet the more stringent demands of consumers. In particular stains caused by skin disinfectants and hand disinfectants as well as white stains caused by alcohol water and colored stains caused by marker substances as well as instances of yellowing caused by surface disinfectants based for example on quaternary ammonium compounds and also on amine type active substances continue to lead to complaints from the persons responsible for buildings by reason of the visual impairments. These problems are observed above all in hospitals. But they also occur in attenuated form in an environment where use is made of cleaning agents and or disinfecting agents that contain the indicated components.

By reason of the disadvantages of classical removable maintenance agents in recent years it has been observed with increasing frequency that polyacrylates coupled to non metals are being used in coating films with the consequence that the resulting maintenance films are difficult to remove by wet chemical means or can no longer be removed by such means. Wet chemical means refers to a traditional floor stripper designed to remove traditional zinc or metal crosslinked acrylic finishes. Examples of traditional strippers include BLAST CARESTRIP LO BENDUROL FORTE and HAWK from Ecolab Inc. and PROSTRIP by SC Johnson Professional Products. Such a floor stripper when used at the recommended use concentration is capable of removing a traditional zinc crosslinked topcoat but not able to remove a non traditional crosslinked undercoat. Typically a more aggressive chemistry is needed to remove the cross linked undercoat. Examples of such films are films that are crosslinked with aziridine and based on polyacrylate. Theoretically these maintenance films would really never have to be removed if the effective film or films were always to be renewed early enough. But practice has shown that this is not actually put into effect or that the non removable maintenance film is frequently damaged and thereafter has to be removed mechanically in elaborate manner by erosive means. A further consideration is that in the grinding process the control over the grinding action is also limited and damage to the covering occurs quite often.

Consequently the object of the present invention was to make available coating systems in which the outer layer is intended to serve as it were as a sacrificial layer and to be capable of being removed simply by wet chemical means but in which at the same time the susceptibility of this simply removable sacrificial layer to discoloration with regard to antimicrobial components is to be minimal.

As is also evident from the examples section of the present invention no maintenance films are known which are capable of being removed simply by wet chemical means and which at the same time display low susceptibility to discoloration in the sense of the present invention.

All the more surprising were the tests within the scope of the present invention which showed that hardly any or no susceptibility to discoloration was present in respect of a coating system containing one or more base layers of a certain type that are not capable of being removed by wet chemical means and a maintenance layer or sacrificial layer applied thereon that is capable of being removed simply by wet chemical means and that considered in itself is susceptible to discoloration.

a one or more agents in which together or separately a polymer or polymer wax dispersion and aziridine and where desired a flatting component are present for application on the floor in order to form a crosslinked base film that is not capable of being removed by wet chemical means as well as

b an aziridine free agent containing conventional floor maintenance components in particular a polymer or polymer wax dispersion for the purpose of generating a sacrificial film on said base film that is capable of being removed by wet chemical means.

In the system according to the invention a is preferably to be understood to comprise at least two agents one of which contains the said aziridine and another of which contains the said polymer or polymer wax dispersion.

In a particularly preferred embodiment of the system according to the invention a is even to be understood to comprise at least three agents a first of which contains the said aziridine a second of which contains the said polymer or polymer wax dispersion and a third of which contains the said flatting component.

In some embodiments a and b are identical compositions except that a contains aziridine. In some embodiments a and b are different compositions besides the addition of aziridine to a .

In accordance with the present invention flatting components are preferably to be understood to be those which are selected from the large group comprising the compounds of silicic acid or polymer based materials. For a person skilled in the art these compounds are those which for example are offered for sale by the companies Clariant BYK CERA Klein Additec. Additional flatting agents include the SYLOID C SERIES silica gel flatting agents by Grace Davison GASIL silica gels by INEOS ACEMATT series by Degussa and Lo Vel flatting silicas from PPG Industries. The supplementary addition of the flatting component can be an advantage because stains in and on the maintenance film can be accentuated by gloss.

An attempt is often made to comply with the desire of consumers for less gloss by incorporating flatting agents. However none of the products that contain flatting agents and that have been on the market hitherto is stable in storage. By reason of the low viscosity of the polymer dispersions the flatting agents cream up partly clot or settle out on the floor. The products are predominantly offered for sale in 10 liter casks so that sufficient homogenisation as a result of shaking of the cask does not take place.

In the service industry it is moreover not customary to employ stirrers for the purpose of homogenisation as is customarily done by for example those responsible for laying floors and parquet flooring where multi component systems also with flatting agents for example are more frequently processed directly on site.

Therefore in the sense of the present invention it is an advantage to make the flatting component available where desired in the form of a separate agent and to use it only as needed.

In the system according to the invention the volumes of the casks in which the agents stated under a have been decanted are preferably so chosen that when the complete contents of the casks are intermixed a mixture is present that exhibits precisely the ratio of the essential components for the system according to the invention that is desired for the formation of the base film or films.

In this connection it is particularly preferred if the volume of one of the stated casks preferably that one in which the largest agent by volume is located is so chosen that sufficient space is available to accommodate the contents of the additional stated cask or casks and to produce the desired mixture.

It is preferred moreover that in the system according to the invention at least two of the agents a and or b contain conventional floor maintenance components known to those skilled in the art selected from the group comprising waxes surfactants diluents solvents surface slip modifiers defoamers indicators UV absorbers light stabilizers antioxidants plasticizers coalescents adhesion promoters preservatives antimicrobial agents levelling agents thickeners stability enhancers dispersants colorants anti settling agents optical brighteners alkali soluble resins film forming polymers and mixtures thereof in which case in particular film forming polymers are contained having a minimal film forming temperature between 0 and 90 C.

Some non limiting examples of suitable waxes include oxidized polyethylenes and polypropylenes and copolymers thereof.

Some non limiting examples of surface slip modifiers include organic or inorganic particles incorporated in the finish itself to reduce slipping.

Some non limiting examples of defoamers include silicon emulsions such as SE 21 from Wacker Silicons.

Some non limiting examples of indicators include acid base indicators fluorescent indicators redox indicators metallochromic indicators and photon sensitive dyes. Exemplary acid base indicators include those color changing indicators listed in Table 1 or 2 of the Merck Index 12Edition Budavari O Neil Smith Heckelman Kinneary eds. 1996 Merck Research Laboratories or Table 8.23 in Lange s Handbook of Chemistry 15th Edition Dean J. A. 1999 McGraw Hill Inc. or Table on pages 8 13 of CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 72Edition Lide ed. 1991 CRC Press . The disclosures of acid base indicators in these references are incorporated herein by reference. Exemplary acid base indicators that may be used include methyl violet bromophenol blue tetrabromophenol blue bromochlorophenol blue Congo Red alizarin sodium sulfonate bromocresol green chlorophenol red bromocresol purple bromophenol red bromothymol blue phenol red rosolic acid cresol red tropeolin OOO m cresol purple xylenol blue alizarin yellow GG alizarin yellow R Nile Blue tropeolin O poirrier blue C4B and indigo carmine. Other exemplary indicators that may change from colored to colorless include quinaldine red 2 4 dinitrophenol dinitrophenol nitramine 1 3 5 trinitrobenzene 1 3 5 trinitrobenzene and 2 4 6 trinitrophenol. Other exemplary acid base indicators that may change from color to colorless in a pH range of 4 to 10.5 that may be used include 2 5 dinitrophenol dinitrophenol p nitrophenol naptholphthalein quinoline blue ethyl bis 2 4 dinitrophenyl acetate o cresolphthalein phenolphthalein thymolphthalein and ethyl red. Exemplary fluorescent indicators that may be used include those listed in Table 8.25 in Lange s Handbook of Chemistry 15th edition Dean J. A. 1999 McGraw Hill Inc. or on pages 8 15 of CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics 72nd edition Lide ed. 1991 CRC Press . The fluorescent indicators disclosed therein are incorporated herein by reference. Other exemplary fluorescent indicators that may be used include esculin benzoflavine 3 6 dioxyphthalimide eosine YS eosine BN coumarin Schaffer s salt SS acid sodium salt cotarnine naphthionic acid and anthranilic acid. Exemplary fluorescent indicators that change fluorescence over a pH range of 2 to 10 include chromotropic acid 1 naphthoic acid 1 naphthylamine 5 sulfonamide Magdala Red naphthylamine naphththylamine salicylic acid 5 aminosalicylic acid o methoxybenzaldehyde P phenylenediamine morin 3 6 dioxyxanthone methylesculetin Neville Winther acid brilliant diazol yellow magnesium 8 hydroxyquinolinate methyumbelliferone 1 naphthol 4 sulfonic acid and derivatives thereof umbelliferone naphthol resorufin and luminol. Exemplary fluorescent indicators also include those that fluoresce green yellow or orange and include fluorescein fluorescein derivatives such as erythrosin B tetraiodofluorescein phloxin BA extra tetrachlorotetrabromofluorescein eosin tetrabromofluorescein dichlorofluorescein diodofluorescein carboxy fluorescein fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC tetrabromosulfonefluorescein Cleves Acid coumaric acid 3 6 dioxyphthalic dinitrile orcinaurine patent phosphine thioflavine acridine orange and naphthazol derivatives. Exemplary redox indicators that may be used include those listed in Table 8.26 in Lange s Handbook of Chemistry 15th edition Dean J. A. 1999 McGraw Hill Inc. the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Exemplary redox indicators that may be used also include 2 carboxydiphenylamine o m diphenylaminedicarboxylic acid p nitrodiphenylamine benzidine dihydrochloride o toluidine diphenylamine 4 sulfonate Na salt 3 3 dimethoxybenzidine dihydrochloride N N diphenylbenzidine diphenylamine N N dimethyl p phenylenediamine Wurster s Reagent variamine blue B hydrochloride N phenyl 1 2 4 benzenetriamine 2 6 dichloroindophenol Na salt brilliant cresyl blue 2 6 dibromophenolindophenol starch induline scarlet neutral red gallocyanine indigo derivatives indigao 5 5 7 trisulfonic acid Na salt indigo 5 5 7 7 tetrasulfonic acid Na salt Indigo 5 5 disulfonic acid Na salt Indigo 5 monosulfonic acid phenosafranine Nile blue A thionine methylene blue methyl blue acid blue 93 . Exemplary metallochromic indicators include calmagite eriochrome black T murexide PAN pyrocatechol violet salicylic acid and xylenol orange. Exemplary photon sensitive dyes include BASF dyes basonyl green basonyl blue pylam blue traylmethanes flexo yellow diarylmethane FD C 2 indigotene FD C 2 lake FD C 1 FD C 3 red FD C 3 green triphenylmethanes methyl blue FD C 1 lake FD C 5 yellow pyrazoline erythrosine lake and FD C 5 yellow lake.

Some non limiting examples of UV absorbers light stabilizers or antioxidants include hindered amine types such as Tinuvin 123 Tinuvin 152 or Chimassorb 199 benzotriazole types such as Tinuvin 171 Tinuvin 384 2 or Tinuvin 1130 Tinuvin 400 Tinuvin 5050 or Irganox 1076 all available from Ciba Specialty Chemicals.

Some non limiting examples of adhesion promoters include promoters based on silanes and silicones such as DYNASYLAN from Degussa.

Some non limiting examples of preservatives and antimicrobials include isothazoline derivatives such as Kathon CG ICP Rohm Haas and silver compounds or triclosan from Ciba.

Some non limiting examples of wetting or levelling agents include fluorosurfactants such as Zonyl FSJ FSN or FSO Dupont or MASURF FS 230 Mason Chemical .

Some non limiting examples of stability enhancers include anionic surfactants such as Abex 18S Rhodia .

Some non limiting examples of dispersants or anti settling agents include fumed silicas starch and modified starches hydroxyethylcellulose HEC and functionalized copolymers such as alkali swellable emulsions ASE hydrophobically modified alkali swellable emulsions HASE and hydrophobically modified ethoxylated urethane resins HEUR . Commercially available anti settling agents that may be useful include the DREWTHIX series of rheology modifiers from Ashland Specialty Chemical Co. the ANTISETTLE CVP CRAYVALLAC series and FLOWTONE GST rheology modifiers from Atofina the CAB O SIL series of fumed silicas from Cabot Corp. the DISPEX series of dispersing agents and the VISCALEX and RHEOVIS series of rheology modifiers from Ciba Specialty Chemicals the AEROSIL series of fumed silicas from Degussa the UCAR POLYPHOBE series of alkali swellable urethane modified rheology modifiers from Dow Chemical Company the AQUAFLOW series of nonionic and anionic associative polymers from Hercules Inc. the NEOSIL series of fumed silicas from Ineos Silicas the TAMOL series of polyacid and hydrophilic copolymer dispersants from Kia Inc. the STRUCTURE series of modified starches from National Starch Chemical the CARBOPOL series of homopolymers and copolymers from Noveon and the ACRYSOL ACUSOL and ASE series of rheology modifiers from Rohm Haas Co.

Some non limiting examples of colorants include organic dyes or inorganic pigments or lightness inducing agents.

Some non limiting examples of resins include alkali soluble resins styrene maleic anhydride copolymers rosin esters and acrylic oligomers.

A variety of film formers can be employed in the invention including solvent borne waterborne or 100 solids compositions containing monomers oligomers or polymers and employing a variety of hardening systems. Exemplary film formers include water soluble or water dispersible as is or with a dispersing agent acid containing polymers crosslinked using transition metals alkaline earth metals alkali metals or mixtures thereof e.g. zinc crosslinked acrylics zinc free acrylic finishes e.g. acrylic copolymers polyurethanes e.g. radiation curable polyurethanes polyurethane dispersions multipart polyurethanes and latent one part polyurethane compositions containing a blocked isocyanate acrylic urethanes water based e.g. waterborne latex emulsions wax emulsions hydroxy containing polyacrylates and a variety of other materials that will be familiar to those skilled in the art. Representative commercially available film formers include DURAPLUS 3 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion DURAPLUS 2 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion RHOPLEX B 924 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion RHOPLEX NT 2624 acrylic dispersion DURAGREEN acrylic dispersion RHOPLEX NTS 2923 acrylic dispersion RHOPLEX 3949 acrylic dispersion RHOPLEX 1421 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion RHOPLEX 3830 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion and UHS PLUS zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion from Rohm Haas Co. MEGATRAN 205 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion and SYNTRAN 1580 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion from Interpolymer Corp. MORGLO zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion ML 870 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion and ML 877 zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersion from Omnova Solutions Inc. 98 283W urethane acrylate from Hans Rahn Co. and materials such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 517 330 4 999 216 5 091 211 5 319 018 5 453 451 5 773 487 5 830 937 6 096 383 6 197 844 6 228 433. 6 316 535 B1 6 544 942 B1 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. U.S. 2002 0028621 A1 and in the patents cited therein. Especially preferred film formers include water soluble or water dispersible film formers such as acid containing polymers crosslinked using transition metals and water soluble or water dispersible multicomponent e.g. two component polyurethanes. Mixtures of film formers can also be employed.

The coating system may also contain water or another suitable diluent plasticizer or coalescent including compounds such as benzyloxyethanol an ether or hydroxyether such as ethylene glycol phenyl ether commercially available as DOWANOL EPh from Dow Chemical Co. or propylene glycol phenyl ether commercially available as DOWANOL PPh from Dow Chemical Co. tributoxyl ethyl phosphate commercially available as AMGARD TPEP from Albright Wilson ester alcohols commercially available as Texanol and TXIB from Eastman benzoate esters commercially available as Benzoflex from Velsicol citric acid esters dibasic esters such as dimethyl adipate dimethyl succinate dimethyl glutarate dimethyl malonate diethyl adipate diethyl succinate diethyl glutarate dibutyl succinate and dibutyl glutarate including products available under the trade designations DBE DBE 3 DBE 4 DBE 5 DBE 6 DBE 9 DBE IB and DBE ME from DuPont Nylon dialkyl carbonates such as dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate dipropyl carbonate diisopropyl carbonate and dibutyl carbonate phthalate esters such as dibutyl phthalate diethylhexyl phthalate and diethyl phthalate and mixtures thereof. Cosolvents can also be added if desired to assist in formulating and applying the finish. Suitable cosolvents include Butoxyethyl PROPASOL Butyl CARBITOL acetate Butyl CARBITOL Butyl CELLOSOLVE acetate Butyl CELLOSOLVE Butyl DIPROPASOL Butyl PROPASOL CARBITOL PM 600 CARBITOL Low Gravity CELLOSOLVE acetate CELLOSOLVE Ester EEP FILMER IBT Hexyl CARBITOL Hexyl CELLOSOLVE Methyl CARBITOL Methyl CELLOSOLVE acetate Methyl CELLOSOLVE Methyl DIPROPASOL Methyl PROPASOL acetate Methyl PROPASOL Propyl CARBITOL Propyl CELLOSOLVE Propyl DIPROPASOL and Propyl PROPASOL all of which are available from Union Carbide Corp. and mixtures thereof. The concentration may vary depending in part on the other finish ingredients and on the intended application and application conditions. As a general guide when water alone is used as a diluent the water concentration preferably is from about 15 to about 98 wt. based on the finish formulation weight. More preferably the finish contains about 25 to about 95 wt. water and most preferably about 60 to about 95 wt. water. If a diluent plasticizer coalescent or cosolvent other than water is included in the finish formulation then its concentration preferably is from about 0.1 to about 30 wt. based on the weight of polymerizable solids in the finish and more preferably about 1 to about 20 wt. .

The coating system may contain additional initiators catalysts or crosslinkers capable of hardening the film former. For example depending in part on the chosen film former the coating system may contain transition metal compounds such as zinc or zirconium compounds tin compounds such as dibutyl tin dilaurate stannous octoate and FASCAT 4224 dibutyltin bis 1 thioglycerol catalyst commercially available from ATOFINA Chemicals Inc. amines other zinc compounds such as zinc crosslinked acrylic dispersions ultrafine zinc oxide and zinc carbonates including zinc tetraamine carbonate and zinc ammonium carbonate and a variety of other materials that will be familiar to those skilled in the art. The hardening mechanism can be thermal such as ambient curing or elevated temperature curing ultraviolet curing or radiation curing.

The coating system may also contain inorganic or organic particles or both inorganic and organic particles to enhance its abrasion resistance scratch resistance wear resistance appearance or strippability. Preferred inorganic particles are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 657 420 filed Sep. 8 2000 and entitled SCRATCH RESISTANT STRIPPABLE FINISH the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. It should be noted that the inorganic particles in the UV curable finishes exemplified in the latter reference did not diffusely reflect light. In addition the coating system may include lightness inducing agents such as those described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 033 029 filed Jan. 11 2005 and entitled FLOOR FINISH COMPOSITION LAMINATES AND METHODS FOR TREATING FLOORS the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The stated film forming polymer is preferably selected from polyurethanes and or polycarboxylates in particular from polyacrylates.

It is preferred moreover that a is to be understood to comprise several agents one of which is free of aziridine and contains a polymer or polymer wax dispersion and is identical with the formulation of agent b .

For the system according to the invention it is likewise preferred that one or more of the agents a and or b contain surfactants the total content of surfactants amounting relative to the respective agent a and or b preferably to 0.01 to 35 wt. particularly preferably 0.01 to 10 wt. . The expression total content is to be understood as relating only to one of the surfactant containing agents and not to the sum of all the agents that are present in accordance with the invention.

The surfactants are very particularly preferably selected from non ionic surfactants in particular from alkyl polyglucosides and from anionic surfactants in particular from the group comprising the alkyl sulfates alkyl sulfonates olefin sulfonates ether sulfates soaps fluorinated surfactants silicone surfactants and mixtures thereof.

In one embodiment the base film can be made by adding aziridine to a known floor finish composition. Some non limiting examples of known floor finish compositions include PADLOCK GEMSTAR LASER MARKETSTAR STRATUS and TAJ MAHAL acrylic floor finishes and COURTMASTER II urethane floor finish from Ecolab Inc. CORNERSTONE and TOPLINE acrylic floor finishes from 3M BETCO BEST floor finish from Betco Corp. HIGH NOON acrylic finish from Butchers CITATION acrylic finish from Buckeye International Inc. COMPLETE SIGNATURE TECHNIQUE and VECTRA acrylic floor finishes from SC Johnson Professional Products OVER AND UNDER floor sealer from S.C. Johnson Professional Products SPLENDOR DECADE 90 PRIME SHINE ULTRA and PREMIER acrylic finishes and FIRST ROUND and FORTRESS urethane acrylic finishes from Minuteman International Inc. ACRYL KOTE Seal and Finish and PREP Floor Seal from Minuteman International Inc. ULTRA TC and UV I FINISH UV curable finishes from Minuteman International Inc FLOORSTAR Premium 25 floor finish from ServiceMaster Inc. and UPPER LIMITS acrylic finish and ISHINE optically brightened floor finish from Spartan Chemical Co. Other suitable formulations that can be combined with the pigment include No. AD200C 1 polyester polyurethane formulation from Air Products and Chemicals Inc. No. MG98 040 polyester polyurethane formulation from Bayer AG STAY CLAD 5900 hydroxyl functional acrylic polymer dispersion from Reichhold Inc. Nos. 979 1 and 980 3 polyester polyurethane formulations from U.S. Polymers Inc. and No. G 2029 acrylic polyurethane formulation from Zeneca Resins.

The present invention further provides a process for the treatment of coating systems that are present in accordance with the invention with cleaning agents and or disinfecting agents containing one or more antimicrobial components selected from the group comprising the alcohols aldehydes antimicrobial acids carboxylic esters acid amides phenols phenol derivatives diphenyls diphenyl alkanes urea derivatives oxygen acetals nitrogen acetals oxygen formals nitrogen formals benzamidines isothiazolines phthalimide derivatives pyridine derivatives antimicrobial surface active compounds quaternary ammonium compounds antimicrobial alkylamines guanidines antimicrobial amphoteric compounds quinolines 1 2 dibromo 2 4 dicyanobutane iodo 2 propinylbutyl carbamate iodine iodophors fatty acids such as octanoic acid peroxides and peracids such as peracetic and peroctanoic acid.

In this connection it is particularly preferred if the cleaning agents and or disinfecting agents contain one or more antimicrobial components selected from the group comprising the quaternary ammonium compounds alkylamines and Glucoprotamin and in particular if the stated antimicrobial components are selected from the group comprising the alkyl propylenediamines having the general formula I

in which R1 signifies an alkyl or alkenyl group with 8 to 18 carbon atoms and R2 signifies hydrogen an alkyl group with 1 to 4 carbon atoms or an aminoalkyl group with 2 to 4 carbon atoms and

the products known as Glucoprotamin such as are available from alkyl propylenediamine of the formula II

in which R3 stands for a linear alkyl group with 12 to 14 carbon atoms by conversion with compounds of the formula III

in which R4 stands for hydrogen or an alkyl group with 1 to 4 carbon atoms in a molar ratio of 1 1 to 1 2 at 60 to 175 C.

It is still more preferred if the stated antimicrobial components are selected from Glucoprotamin N N bis 3 aminopropyl laurylamine N dodecyl 1 3 propanediamine N coco 1 3 propanediamine or a mixture of these whereby in the special case the stated antimicrobial component is Glucoprotamin .

By virtue of the process according to the invention it is preferably ensured that the extent of yellowing and or staining is diminished in comparison with the extent occurring in the case of conventional coating systems with a sacrificial layer that is capable of being removed by wet chemical means. In the following the invention summarises the visually recognisable changes to the surface which occur such as yellowing and or staining generally under the term discolorations .

The present invention further provides a process for coating floors in which in one process step a base film containing aziridine crosslinked polymers where desired intermixed with flatting components is applied and after drying a sacrificial film containing conventional maintenance components for floors in particular a polymer or polymer wax dispersion is applied directly onto the stated base film in a further step. In this connection the subject matter is to be understood in such a way that it is entirely possible for yet other coatings to be applied beneath the base film. The essential point in the sense of the present invention is that the film serving as basis for the sacrificial film or maintenance film that is not crosslinked with aziridine is to be understood as being the base film.

i prior to application of the stated base film the agents that are present in conformity with the system according to the invention have been decanted in casks the volume of which is so chosen that when the complete contents of the casks are intermixed a mixture is present that exhibits precisely the ratio of the essential components in conformity with the system according to the invention that is desired for the formation of the base film and

ii the agents are prepared by bringing together and intermixing the entire contents of the stated casks for the application of the stated base film.

In this connection the bringing together and intermixing of the entire contents of the stated casks are preferably carried out in one of the stated casks particularly preferably in that cask in which the largest agent by volume is located.

If a is to be understood to comprise several agents one of which is in accordance with the invention identical with b there is preferably the possibility of dispensing with one cask. In this case for the base coating a first portion of the agent b that is identical with a would be intermixed with the additional agents a namely the agents containing aziridine and or where desired flatting components and applied. After drying of the base film the remaining portion of the agent b that is identical with a could then be applied partially or wholly by way of sacrificial layer.

The present invention also provides a floor coating in which a sacrificial film containing conventional maintenance components for floors and preferably antimicrobial components is applied directly onto a base film containing aziridine crosslinked polymers and where desired a flatting component.

The disclosed coating system can be applied to a variety of substrates including wood plastics metals concrete wallboard and other mechanical or architectural substrates. The disclosed finishes are particularly well suited for application to flooring substrates due to their clean appearance. Representative flooring substrates include resilient substrates such as sheet goods e.g. vinyl flooring linoleum or rubber sheeting vinyl composite tiles rubber tiles cork and synthetic sports floors and non resilient substrates such as concrete stone marble wood ceramic tile grout Terrazzo and other poured or dry shake floors. The coating can be jobsite applied to a flooring substrate after the substrate has been installed e.g. to monolithic flooring substrates such as sheet vinyl goods linoleum cork rubber sheeting synthetic sports floors concrete stone marble grout or Terrazzo or to multipiece flooring substrates such as vinyl composite tiles wood floorboards or ceramic tiles or can be factory applied to a flooring substrate before it is installed e.g. to monolithic flooring substrates such as sheet vinyl goods in roll form or multipiece flooring substrates such as vinyl composite tiles or wood floorboards . Jobsite application is especially preferred with suitable jobsites including indoor and outdoor sites involving new or existing residential commercial and government or agency owned facilities.

The disclosed coating system can be applied using a variety of methods including spraying brushing flat or string mopping roll coating and flood coating. Mop application especially flat mopping is preferred for coating most floors. Suitable mops include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 315 734 5 390 390 5 680 667 and 5 887 311. Typically the floor should first be cleaned and any loose debris removed. One or more undercoat layers or coats diluted if necessary with water or another suitable diluent plasticizer coalescent or cosolvent may be applied to the floor. One to three undercoat layers typically will be preferred. When multiple undercoat layers are employed they can be the same or different. Each undercoat layer preferably will have a dry coating thickness of about 2.5 to about 25 microns more preferably about 2.5 to about 15 microns. Preferably the overall undercoat dry coating thickness will be about 5 to about 100 .mu.m and more preferably about 5 to about 50 .mu.m.

In several series of tests the influence on the appearance of various coating systems was investigated in the case of regular treatment with disinfectant solutions.

The various floor coating systems to be tested were produced using the floor coating formulations B1 to B3 according to Table 1. For the purpose of producing the floor coating systems the floor coating formulations B1 to B3 were evenly distributed by themselves or above one another in quantities of in each case 10 ml with the aid of a manual application instrument on PVC sheets with a size of 30 cm 60 cm. In the case where several coatings were applied above one another care was taken prior to application of the additional coating to ensure that the coating film already present had sufficient time for drying. The coating systems that were prepared in this way are compiled in Table 2.

The PVC sheets which were coated with the respective floor coating formulations were prepared in duplicate and stored at 40 C. in a darkroom.

A first series of the test objects which had been stored in this way was wiped in the darkroom three times a day at approximately two hourly intervals with a surface disinfectant solution in which by way of antimicrobial component Glucoprotamin was present in a concentration of 0.25 wt. relative to the entire solution.

A second series of the test objects which had been stored in this way was wiped in the darkroom three times a day at approximately two hourly intervals with a surface disinfectant solution in which by way of antimicrobial components dimethylalkyl C12 14 benzylammonium chloride benzalkon in a concentration of 0.15 wt. and polyhexamethylene biguanide in a concentration of 0.05 wt. were present relative to the entire solution.

After 70 days the test objects were withdrawn from the darkroom and the yellowing was evaluated visually by trained specialist staff.

In this connection the scale of evaluation extended from 5 very strong discoloration to 0 no discoloration of any kind .

In the course of the tests it became evident that the aziridine crosslinked coating film was not susceptible to the conditions obtaining in the test and did not result in discoloration of any kind.

Totally surprising however was the fact that in the case of example E1 according to the invention the susceptibility of the outer coating sacrificial layer to discoloration was so slight. This could not be expected since as was shown in the remaining tests the sacrificial layer that was present in the case of E1 had a strong tendency towards discoloration under the chosen conditions. The fact that one or more aziridine crosslinked coating films base layer is are present directly beneath the sacrificial layer could not lead to the assumption that the susceptibility of the sacrificial layer was thereby reduced.

