---

title: Portable medical equipment suite
abstract: A portable medical equipment suite that includes a case, a power distribution system, a physiological monitoring and defibrillation system, a portable suction unit, a medical information management system and an oxygen dispenser. The case has a door and an interior, the door allows access to the interior of the case; the case is self contained and waterproof when the door is closed. The power distribution system, the physiological monitoring and defibrillation system, the portable suction unit, the medical information management system, and the oxygen dispenser are disposed within the interior of the case. The power distribution system powers the physiological monitoring and defibrillation system, the portable suction unit, and the medical information management system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=H0002247&OS=H0002247&RS=H0002247
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: H0002247
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060705
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to a portable medical equipment suite. More specifically but without limitation the present invention relates a portable medical equipment suite that can be deployed on helicopters and can be used on patients known or assumed to be in critical condition and require trauma treatment.

There are many rescue operations and evacuation operations particularly in military situations that are made by helicopter. People or military personnel with life threatening injuries that need immediate evacuation from the point of injury are typically evacuated by helicopter.

Studies show that nearly 70 percent of deaths resulting from injuries received in battle occur within the first hour. Battle experts state that the most critical time for treatment of a casualty is the first ten minutes after an injury occurs. Therefore for optimum survivability an injury should be treated within 10 minutes of occurrence.

Currently the United States military utilizes three different medical equipment suite configurations in military rotary wing aircraft e.g. helicopters . The first type of suite configuration is the fully integrated suite such as the U.S. Army s UH 60Q aircraft. This suite configuration is integrated within the aircraft and includes the best possible equipment. The aircraft is very expensive and there are not enough UH 60Q deployed to be effective.

The second type of suite is the partially integrated suite that can be found on the U.S. Army s HH 60L. Some equipment is integrated into the aircraft while other equipment remains separate. In the partially integrated suite there are problems with the stowage of gear and equipment and the survivability of the suite on the military battlefield.

The third type of medical equipment suite configuration is non integrated medical equipment which is equipment taken by medical personnel on board the aircraft. This equipment is usually not properly stowed and or not adequately protected from potential damage.

Prior solutions that have been used or proposed are generally unsatisfactory. One solution included a stretcher bridge which holds instruments and straddles a stretcher the stretcher bridge bridges over the patient on a stretcher . In this solution the equipment is exposed to the elements requires an outside or external power supply and is not a fully self contained unit. Another solution includes a single enclosure mounted to the rear wall of an aircraft to provide a flight surgeon with a full range of intensive care equipment. However this system is not portable and the aircraft needs to be specially equipped with the system.

For the foregoing reasons there is a need for a portable medical equipment suite that can be transported quickly in and out of different airframes and or vehicles.

The present invention is directed to a portable medical equipment suite that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to a portable medical equipment suite that includes a case a power distribution system a physiological monitoring and defibrillation system a portable suction unit a medical information management system and an oxygen dispenser. The case has a door and an interior the door allows access to the interior of the case the case is self contained and waterproof when the door is closed. The power distribution system the physiological monitoring and defibrillation system the portable suction unit the medical information management system and the oxygen dispenser are disposed within the interior of the case. The power distribution system powers the physiological monitoring and defibrillation system the portable suction unit and the medical information management system.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a portable medical equipment suite that is portable and can be moved easily from location to location and can be used or installed in multiple types of venues aircraft or vehicles.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a portable medical equipment suite where medical equipment is disposed within a case such that the medical equipment is not exposed to the elements. It is a further feature of the present invention to provide a portable medical equipment suite that is self contained.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a portable medical equipment suite that an operator may utilize already purchased medical equipment.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide a portable medical equipment suite that can support and or monitor at least one critical trauma patient for treatment or transport.

Several embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example in . As shown in the portable medical equipment suite includes a case a power distribution system a physiological monitoring and defibrillation system a portable suction unit a medical information management system a bio waste disposal container and an oxygen dispenser . The case includes a door and an interior the door allowing access to the interior of the case . The door may be hinged as shown in and or removable as shown in FIG. . In the interior of the case the case may include an adjustable rack system and a zippered storage pouch for accessories. In one of the embodiments of the invention the zippered storage pouch may be disposed on the inside portion of the door . The inside portion of the door may be described as the side of the door that faces the interior of of the case when the door is closed. The case may be self contained and waterproof when the door is closed. The power distribution system is disposed within the interior of the case and powers the physiological monitoring and defibrillation system the portable suction unit and the medical information management system as well as any additional components that require a power source . The physiological monitoring and defibrillation system the portable suction unit the medical information management system the bio waste disposal container and the oxygen dispenser may all be disposed within the interior of the case .

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a military rescue helicopter environment however this invention can be utilized for any type of need that requires use of a portable medical equipment suite. The portable medical equipment suite may be used but without limitations in disaster preparedness response operations fire rescue units and emergency medical operations.

The case may have an outer shell that is water proof shock proof and or non corrosive. The case may be manufactured from rotomolded polyethylene injection molded polymer or any material practicable. As seen in in one of the embodiments of the invention the case may include two doors . The doors may include retractable door handles to close and open the doors . Optionally as seen in the case may include lockable casters or wheels and or rollers so that the suite may be easily moved and then locked into place. The case may also include grips for moving the suite . The grips may be manufactured from zinc yellow chromate plastic a combination thereof or any material practicable. The case may also include but without limitation a lid hanger an airtight breather valve humidity indicator lifting tie down rings a lockable cable hasp a purge valve and or a desiccant basket. Also disposed within the interior of the case there may be additional adjustable rack systems for housing any additional components or medical supplies.

The portable medical equipment suite as well as the case may be arranged vertically as shown in or horizontally as shown in FIG. . In the horizontal configuration the top of the case may function as a gurney. The case may also be modular in nature. As seen in each specific medical component the physiological monitoring and defibrillation system the portable suction unit the oxygen dispenser etc. may be disposed within a separate module . Each module may be openable and have a module door to protect the component from the environment and allow access to the individual component. The module doors may be hinged not shown or completely removable as shown in FIG. . Each module may be water proof shock proof and non corrosive. The modules can be arranged in a vertical a horizontal fashion or in a combination of both configurations. The modules may be connectable to each other via a module connection system and can be configured to allow electronic communication between the components. The module connection system may be snap system a male female connection a quick disconnect system or any type connection system that attaches the individual modules to each other.

The power distribution system supplies power to all the components of the portable medical equipment suite that require any type of power. The power distribution system may be but without limitation a universal power pack a battery or any other type of self sustaining power distribution system. The power distribution system may include an outlet power strip e.g. a 6 or 8 outlet power strip so that it can power several components at the same time. In addition the power distribution system may be attachable to an external power supply such as an outlet or the airframe power supply. The power distribution system may be attached and powered by alternating current AC or direct current DC sources or any type of power practicable.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to a certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

