---

title: Tortuous path chemical preconcentrator
abstract: A non-planar, tortuous path chemical preconcentrator has a high internal surface area having a heatable sorptive coating that can be used to selectively collect and concentrate one or more chemical species of interest from a fluid stream that can be rapidly released as a concentrated plug into an analytical or microanalytical chain for separation and detection. The non-planar chemical preconcentrator comprises a sorptive support structure having a tortuous flow path. The tortuosity provides repeated twists, turns, and bends to the flow, thereby increasing the interfacial contact between sample fluid stream and the sorptive material. The tortuous path also provides more opportunities for desorption and readsorption of volatile species. Further, the thermal efficiency of the tortuous path chemical preconcentrator is comparable or superior to the prior non-planar chemical preconcentrator. Finally, the tortuosity can be varied in different directions to optimize flow rates during the adsorption and desorption phases of operation of the preconcentrator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07799280&OS=07799280&RS=07799280
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07799280
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060216
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 696 649 filed Oct. 28 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to chemical analysis and more particularly to a non planar tortuous path chemical preconcentrator with a high internal surface area having a heatable sorptive coating that can be used to selectively collect and concentrate one or more chemical species of interest from a fluid stream that can be rapidly released as a concentrated plug into an analytical or microanalytical chain for separation and detection.

Portable handheld microanalytical systems which have been termed chemical laboratories on a chip are being developed to enable the rapid and sensitive detection of particular chemicals including pollutants high explosives and chemical and biological warfare agents. Microfabricated analytical systems have the advantages of reduced power consumption and the ability to batch fabricate and assemble complete microanalytical systems on an integrated chip. In particular increasing integration can reduce the lower limit of detectability by reducing dead volume and allowing for extremely short heated transfer lengths between system components.

Current gas phase microanalytical systems typically comprise a gas chromatography column to separate the chemical species or analyte in a gas mixture and a detector to detect the separated species. Such microanalytical systems can also include a chemical preconcentrator. The chemical preconcentrator serves the important function of selectively collecting and concentrating the analyte s of interest out of a large gas sample volume on a sorptive material at the inlet of the microanalytical system. In particular selective analyte preconcentration is an essential step for early warning trace chemical detection in real world high consequence environments where a high background of potentially interfering compounds exists. The chemical preconcentrator can deliver an extremely sharp analyte plug to the downstream gas chromatograph by taking advantage of the rapid efficient heating of the sorbed analyte with a low heat capacity low loss microheater. The very narrow temporal plug improves baseline separations and therefore the signal to noise ratio and detectability of the particular chemical species of interest. Further with a rapid enough release there is a greatly reduced need for mechanical means of sample introduction such as valving. See R. P. Manginell et al. Recent Advancements in the Gas Phase MicroChemLab 5591 44 2004 .

Previous microfabricated chemical preconcentrators have used a heated planar membrane suspended from a substrate as the microheater wherein the sorptive material is disposed as a layer on a surface of the membrane to sorb the analytes from a gas stream. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 171 378 to Manginell et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. The high thermal efficiency extremely low heat capacity and low flow impedance of the planar preconcentrator enables very rapid thermal desorption of the chemical analyte with very low power consumption. In particular the desorption rate is rapid enough to eliminate the need for a separate mechanical column injection loop. However analyte uptake on the sorptive layer is low due to sorptive materials limitations and the low collection area of the sorptive layer of the planar preconcentrator. In particular the total collection capacity is inadequate for application to volatile compounds and materials due largely to the low capacity of the planar adsorbent zone.

A non planar chemical preconcentrator has also been developed that uses a high surface area low mass three dimensional flow through support structure that can be coated or packed with a sorptive material. See U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 696 649 to Manginell et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. Two basic styles have been implemented. One employs flow perpendicular to the substrate surface through a cylindrical adsorbent coating structure fabricated in the bulk of a silicon chip. The other allows the sample to flow parallel to the substrate surface through parallel fin like adsorbent coating structures. The high surface area of the sorption support structure allows improved analyte collection and concentration especially important for trace chemical detection. In particular the measured collection capacity for semivolatile compounds on sol gel adsorbents is increased by an order of magnitude compared to the planar preconcentrator. Lithographically defined gas flow constrictions within the support structure improve mass transfer of analyte into and out of the adsorbent so that while the transient electrothermal response of the non planar preconcentrator can be two orders of magnitude longer than the planar preconcentrator due to the added support mass desorbed analyte peak widths are only a factor of two wider. However while very successful the low tortuosity of the flow through the support structure of the prior non planar preconcentrator is not optimal for certain analytes. This low tortuosity can be alleviated by using a packed bed which has a high capacity and nearly 100 capture efficiency for analyte collection. However the packed bed has a very high flow impedance requires relatively high power consumption and has limited thermal transfer to the bed.

The non planar chemical preconcentrator of the present invention comprises a sorptive support structure having a tortuous flow path. The tortuous path increases contact of the analyte with the sorptive material by reducing the boundary layer width as compared with the prior non planar preconcentrator support structure. It also provides more opportunities for desorption and readsorption of volatile species. Under certain flow conditions vortices of flow can be created further enhancing analyte collection and desorption. Therefore the tortuous path preconcentrator provides a compromise between a planar preconcentrator and a packed bed preconcentrator. Further the thermal efficiency of the tortuous path chemical preconcentrator is comparable or superior to the prior non planar chemical preconcentrator. Finally the tortuosity can be varied in different directions to optimize flow rates during the adsorption and desorption phases of operation of the preconcentrator.

The present invention is directed to a tortuous path chemical preconcentrator comprising a substrate having a suspended membrane formed thereon at least one resistive heating element disposed on a surface of the suspended membrane a sorption support structure comprising a structure having a tortuous flow path disposed on a surface of the membrane and a sorptive material disposed on the sorption support structure to sorb and concentrate at least one chemical species from a sample fluid with the chemical species being releasable from the sorptive material upon heating of the sorptive material by the at least one resistive heating element.

The tortuosity provides repeated twists turns and bends to the flow thereby increasing the interfacial contact between sample fluid stream and the sorptive material. For example the sorption support structure comprises a plurality of baffles crosses diamond like structures dimpled structures or splined structures. For example the sorption support structure can comprise a herringbone or zigzag pattern. Further the sorption support structure can have varying tortuosity in different directions. For example the sorption support structure can have high tortuosity for enhanced collection in a loading direction and a relatively lower tortuosity to enhance desorption in an unloading direction.

Preferably a chemical preconcentrator provides both efficient adsorption thereby collecting as much of the analyte as possible in a short time and efficient desorption thereby providing a sharp peak of analyte flux to the microanalytical chain. The efficiency of collection and release of analytes depends on a variety of factors including analyte concentration in the sample gas stream sample and carrier gas flow rates adsorption and desorption kinetics temperature of operation and duration of heating during the release step. These efficiencies also depend on the tortuosity of the sorption support structures. The tortuous path chemical preconcentrator of the present invention comprises a micromachined tortuous flow path to enhance the collection and release of analytes from a fluid stream. Although the overall flow rate can be controlled by external pumps local flow rates within the tortuous path preconcentrator will also depend on the details of the sorption support structures.

In is shown a schematic top view illustration of an exemplary non planar chemical preconcentrator with varying tortuosity in two directions. The preconcentrator has a tortuous path sorption support structure comprising a plurality of vertical i.e. out of plane baffles a sample gas inlet a sample gas outlet a carrier gas inlet and a carrier gas outlet . The vertical baffles can be coated with a sorptive material to sorb analytes from the sample gas stream . The sample gas enters the sample gas inlet and the flow is forced to follow a tortuous path to the right in and around the baffles to the sample gas outlet . Therefore tortuosity is provided by the baffles having a structure transverse to the overall flow direction between the inlet and the outlet . The tortuosity provides repeated twists turns and bends to the flow thereby increasing the interfacial contact between sample fluid stream and the sorptive material. Therefore loading of the analyte by flowing the sample gas from left to right provides high tortuosity for enhanced collection. Conversely unloading of the sorbed analytes by flowing the carrier gas from the bottom to the top provides a relatively lower tortuosity to enhance desorption.

In is shown a schematic illustration of an embodiment of the tortuous path chemical preconcentrator comprising a plurality of vertical baffles arranged in a herringbone pattern as the sorption support structure . The tortuous path chemical preconcentrator can be fabricated using methods similar to those described by Manginell et al.

The substrate preferably comprises monocrystalline silicon with a thickness of generally about 400 500 m. However other substrates can also be used including other semiconductor materials e.g. gallium arsenide dielectric materials e.g. a glass crystalline quartz fused silica a plastic or a ceramic and metals e.g. steel .

The membrane is suspended and thermally isolated from the substrate . The membrane is typically formed as a rectangle as shown or square with lateral dimensions of about one to a few millimeters. The suspended membrane is supported on its edges by attachment to the substrate . The suspended membrane can be formed for example by depositing a film of the membrane material over a substrate and subsequently removing a portion of the substrate underlying the film. Similar to the prior chemical preconcentrators low pressure chemically vapor deposited LPCVD silicon nitride is a preferred membrane material due to its low stress low thermal conductivity and compatibility with integrated circuit IC processing steps. The membrane is sufficiently thick generally about 0.5 5 m total thickness for robustness as required for handling and to support the heating element and the sorption support structure and to withstand any thermally induced stresses. Other membrane materials can also be used including silicon polysilicon plastics etc.

In is shown a top view of the tortuous path preconcentrator . The resistive heating element can be a circuitous or serpentine metal trace on the membrane that substantially covers the area of the sorption support structure connected to the other side of the membrane . The resistive heating element can comprise a resistive conducting material. The resistive heating element can be formed by depositing one or more layers of a metal metal alloy or doped semiconductor over the membrane on the opposite side from the sorption support structure and patterning the layers to form the desired heater shape. Preferably the resistive layer has a suitably high temperature of coefficient of resistance TCR of 2500 3000 ppm C. to facilitate temperature measurement and control. Alternatively a separate temperature sensor not shown can be used to control and measure the temperature during heating of the sorption support structure .

In is shown a cross sectional view of the tortuous path preconcentrator . In this embodiment the sorption support structure comprises a plurality of baffles providing a herringbone pattern. The flow is forced to follow a tortuous path through the herringbone pattern thereby increasing the interfacial contact between sample fluid stream and the sorptive material. The baffles are preferably formed in the substrate in a single masking and etching step. The height of the baffles can be controlled by the etching process.

As described by Manginell et al. the sorption support structure can be formed on the membrane by photolithography and backside etching of the substrate . The sorption support structure can then be coated with a sorptive material. The sorptive material acts to sorb or concentrate one or more chemical species of interest from an ambient or fluid sample flowing through the structure over time and can rapidly release the chemical species in a concentrated plug upon rapid heating of the sorptive material using the resistive heating element. The sorptive material can comprise porous silicon a sol gel oxide a polymer a microporous material or other adsorbent material. Specific adsorbent coating materials can be used to tailor analyte collection to specific applications. Besides selectivity other desired coating properties include high adsorbency high porosity for increased sorptive surface area the ability to release the sorbed analyte thermally and hydrophobicity so the coatings prevent water adsorption and signal degradation. The sorptive material can be applied by spray coating traditional dip coating solvent coating vapor coating methods or other coating methods.

For example spray coating of a mesoporous sol gel can be used to target semivolatile molecules. A sol gel coating is a porous solid film formed from a liquid solution sol using a chemical reaction. The result is an adsorbent coating of a three dimensional silica fossil determined by a template that has precise periodic porosity and extremely high surface area. See C. J. Brinker and G. W. Scherer Academic Press San Diego Calif. 1990 . For example the sol gel known as A2 is selective for polar semivolatile molecules like chemical warfare agents and it barely adsorbs volatile compounds like toluene or mixtures such as gasoline jet fuel and diesel. A thin film sol gel coating A2 has a physical surface area over 1000 m g with a controlled pore size in the 1 to 5 nm range. A2 is made mesoporous by using the surfactant templating agent cetyl tetra ammonium bromide CTAB . The template holds the pores open while the sol is gelling and crosslinking. After the devices are coated they can be baked at 350 C. in nitrogen to remove the CTAB to preserve the hydrophobicity. See R. J. Kottenstette et al. Improved Detection of Chemical Warfare Agents Using Functional Materials American Chemical Society National Meeting New York N.Y. September 2003 and N. K. Raman et al. Template Based Approaches to the Preparation of Amorphous Nanoporous Silicas 8 8 1682 1996 .

For example a pulsed laser deposition of nanoporous carbon coating can be used to target toxic industrial chemicals TICs and tri halomethane THM . Nanoporous carbon is a purely graphitic form of carbon with negligible residual stress which allows it to coat any surface to any desired thickness. Pulsed laser deposition of this material allows for precise control of density thickness morphology and porosity. The nanoporous carbon can be grown at room temperature in a controlled gas ambient with a focused 248 nm excimer pulsed laser. Masking can be provided by a machined shadow mask. The resulting nanoporous coating is hydrophobic and pore sizes are as small as 1 nm. See M. P. Siegal et al. Nanoporous carbon Films for Microsensor Preconcentrators 80 21 3940 2002 .

In is shown a scanning electron micrograph SEM image of a tortuous path chemical preconcentrator wherein the sorptive support structure comprises vertical baffles in a herringbone pattern as illustrated schematically in . shows a SEM of the sorptive support structure showing the baffles interdigitated for increased tortuosity.

Alternative heater sorptive coating and sorption support structure configurations are possible. In is shown a SEM of a tortuous path chemical preconcentrator with zigzag sorption support structure . In is shown a SEM of a tortuous path chemical preconcentrator with numerous rectangular baffles that can be configured perpendicular to the overall sample gas flow direction. In are shown alternative sorption support structure geometries including crosses diamond like structures dimpled or splined structures etc. It will be obvious to those skilled in the art that there are many other geometric structures that can add tortuosity and increased interfacial contact between sample fluid stream and the sorptive material.

In are shown the performance of the tortuous path chemical preconcentrator relative to a prior planar chemical preconcentrator. Both preconcentrators had a sol gel sorptive material and were pulse heated to 200 C. during desorption. shows the desorption profile for a planar preconcentrator resulting from a 60 sec collection of 90 ppmv of crotonaldehyde whose vapor pressure is 30 mmHg at 20 C. shows the desorption profile for the tortuous path chemical preconcentrator for the same compound at the same concentration for the same collection time. A large desorption signal is observed at about 30 sec. for the tortuous path preconcentrator whereas the planar preconcentrator showed essentially no response under the same conditions. A compound of the volatility of crotonaldehyde must have more than a single surface to sorb. When the breakthrough volume is small another close by sorbent surface is needed to reuptake the analyte. This is especially true for non polar compounds.

Table 1 shows the collection efficiency for other high volatility compounds obtained using a tortuous path chemical preconcentrator efficiency area of injection peak area of blow by peak area of injection peak . Such high collection efficiencies have not been achieved with a planar preconcentrator.

The present invention has been described as a tortuous path chemical preconcentrator. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

