---

title: Activated vapor treatment for neutralizing warfare agents
abstract: Hydrogen peroxide is vaporized () and mixed () with ammonia gas in a ratio between 1:1 and 1:0.0001. The peroxide and ammonia vapor mixture are conveyed to a treatment area () to neutralize V-type, H-type, or G-type chemical agents, pathogens, biotoxins, spores, prions, and the like. The ammonia provides the primary deactivating agent for G-type agents with the peroxide acting as an accelerator. The peroxide acts as the primary agent for deactivating V-type and H-type agents, pathogens, biotoxins, spores, and prions. The ammonia acts as an accelerator in at least some of these peroxide deactivation reactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07651667&OS=07651667&RS=07651667
owner: Steris Inc.
number: 07651667
owner_city: Temecula
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060410
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 422 472 filed Apr. 24 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 102 052.

The present application relates to the art of deactivating biological and chemical warfare agents. It finds particular application in conjunction with G type agents. However it will be appreciated that it also will find application in conjunction with V type and H type agents as well as biological agents.

Liquid oxidants have been developed which can deactivate biological warfare agents. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 245 957 to Wagner et al. In Wagner a strong oxidant solution is sprayed as a liquid onto equipment in the field which is or has potentially been contaminated with biological or chemical warfare agents. After treatment the solution is rinsed from the equipment with water which can be permitted to flow onto the ground as non toxic. Although effective the liquid Wagner solution has drawbacks. First it is difficult for liquids to penetrate crevasses fine cracks ducts and partially protected or lapping parts. Second in enclosed spaces such as the interior of airplanes tanks and buildings cleanup and disposal of the liquid solution can be problematic. Third liquids can damage some equipment such as electronic or electrical equipment.

Blistering agents such as HD sulphur mustard undergo oxidation to non vesicating products sulphide to sulphoxide . With the correct choice of agents the further oxidation to the sulphone does not occur. This is preferable as both the sulfide and the sulphone have vesicant properties whereas the sulphoxide is non vesicant.

Peroxide causes a perhydrolysis reaction neutralizing V type nerve agents e.g. VX nerve agent. In the perhydrolysis reaction the peroxide moiety substitutes one of the groups around the phosphorous atom at the active site of the nerve agent molecules. Perhydrolysis is more effective against V type nerve agents than base catalyzed hydrolysis by water. In the presence of water such as a water and ammonia wash the base catalyzed hydrolysis reaction can form EA2192 which is also highly toxic.

On the other hand G agents such as GD does not undergo an autocatalytic perhydrolysis neutralizing reaction with hydrogen peroxide. Rather G type agents are typically deactivated with an ammonia based compound.

The present application delivers a vapor phase deactivant which is effective against GV and H type agents as well as against biological agents.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention surfaces are treated with a blend of peroxy and ammonia vapor to deactivate biological and chemical warfare agent residues.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the surfaces are treated with a combination of an oxidizing vapor and a basic vapor or mist preferably ammonia or a short chain alkyl amine.

One advantage of the present invention resides in its effectiveness against a wide variety of chemical warfare agents including both V and G type agents.

Still further advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading and understanding the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

With reference to a treatment enclosure receives or is itself a part of a structure potentially contaminated with biological or chemical warfare agents. Typically biologically active substances include pathogens biotoxins prions spores and the like. Typical chemical agents include H type blistering agents such as mustard gas and V type and G type nerve agents. The treatment enclosure in one embodiment is a dedicated chamber that is adapted to receive items to be generated and then sealed. The chamber can be a fixed structure a tent that is mounted around the object to be treated or the like. In another embodiment the enclosure includes the interior of a warehouse room aircraft tank or other vehicle whose interior surfaces or items contained therein are to be treated.

A fan or blower draws environmental gas typically air from the enclosure through a biological or chemical hazard filter . A catalytic destroyer breaks down hydrogen peroxide into water vapor. A dryer removes the water vapor from the recirculated gas to control the humidity of the carrier gas.

The filtered and dried air is supplied to a vaporizer which vaporizes a liquid oxidant preferably hydrogen peroxide from a liquid hydrogen peroxide source . Other strong oxidants such as hypochlorites ozone solutions peracetic acid and the like are also contemplated. Optionally a cosolvent such as alcohol is mixed with the oxidant liquid. A valve or other appropriate control means controls a rate at which the liquid hydrogen peroxide is vaporized.

The hydrogen peroxide vapor is fed to a mixing chamber or region where the hydrogen peroxide vapor and air mixture is mixed with a basic gas or mist preferably ammonia gas. However short chain alkyl amines are also contemplated. Ammonia gas is supplied from a source or reservoir such as a high pressure tank holding compressed ammonia gas. A control or regulator valve controls the amount of ammonia vapor supplied to the mixing region . The mixture of ammonia and hydrogen peroxide vapor is immediately and continuously supplied to the treatment chamber . Preferably a biological or chemical contaminant filter is mounted at an inlet to the chamber.

A controller includes one or more monitors disposed in the treatment chamber to monitor ambient conditions. Based on the monitored ambient conditions the controller controls one or more of the control valves to control the relative concentrations of hydrogen peroxide and ammonia vapor the blower to control the amount of air flow fans in the chamber for distributing the treatment gas around the chamber and the like. Preferably the controller controls the valves such that a mixture of peroxide vapor and ammonia in the mixing region occurs which achieves an ammonia concentration with a range of 1 to 0.0001 times the nominal peroxy vapor concentration.

In the embodiment of a closed loop system is illustrated in which the same carrier gas is recirculated and used over. Alternately an open loop system can be utilized in which fresh atmospheric air is supplied to the vaporizer preferably filtered and dried and air exiting the chamber is filtered to prevent the biological or chemical contaminants from escaping and discharging to the atmosphere.

Hydrogen peroxide vapor alone is effective against blistering agents HD and nerve agents such as VX which exhibit selective oxidation and selective perhydrolysis. By the addition of ammonia to the vapor stream the hydrolysis based deactivation of GD is also effected.

Under exposure to hydrogen peroxide vapor HD is selectively oxidized to a non vesicant sulphoxide. This reaction with the vaporized hydrogen peroxide occurs rapidly more rapidly with vapor than with liquid hydrogen peroxide solutions. A mass transfer of hydrogen peroxide between the vapor and the liquid agent results in an accumulation of hydrogen peroxide in the liquid phase which causes oxidation to occur rapidly. The excess of dissolved oxidant assures completion of the oxidation process. In liquid neutral peroxide solutions VX undergoes partial autocatalytic perhydrolysis owing to the basicity of its amine group. However this process may not lead to total destruction. In the presence of activators which buffer the peroxide to basic pHs the perhydrolysis proceeds to complete destruction.

When exposed to hydrogen peroxide vapor VX undergoes similar perhydrolysis with the basicity of the amine group of the VX molecule effecting autocatalytic perhydrolysis. Hydrogen peroxide is constantly replenished by mass transfer between the liquid agent and the vapor flowing over it maintaining an adequate supply of the peroxy anion for the reaction. The acidic products that are produced by the perhydrolysis are volatile and are carried away with the flowing vapor. Unlike the stagnant liquids this removal of the acidic products prevents them from accumulating and lowering the pH to the point that the reaction stops. Having catalytic amounts of ammonia in the vapor product has no adverse effect on the neutralization of VX.

The GD does not undergo autocatalytic perhydrolysis with either liquid or vaporized hydrogen peroxide alone. However the GD is susceptible to deactivation by base catalyzed hydrolysis and perhydrolysis. In solution perhydrolysis is about four times as fast as base catalyzed hydrolysis. Both hydrolysis and perhydrolysis result in the formation of the same non toxic inactivation products. GD exposed to hydrogen peroxide and ammonia or other short chain alkyl amines which raise the pH undergoes rapid perhydrolysis and or hydrolysis as long as the pH remains elevated. Exposure to hydrogen peroxide vapor alone does not cause the perhydrolysis to occur. However when the ammonia is added to the hydrogen peroxide vapor hydrolysis to form the non toxic inactivation products occur. The hydrolysis reaction results from the basicity of the ammonia and the presence of water that is absorbed in the hygroscopic GD liquid.

With reference to an open loop system is illustrated. The blower pulls air through a filter and optionally a dehumidifier before pushing it through the vaporizer . A peroxy vapor source and a short chain alkyl amine source provide liquid peroxy and alkyl amines to the vaporizer. Alternately separate vaporizers may be provided for each. The peroxy and alkyl amine vapors can be injected separately into the carrier gas in a mixing region. As yet another alternative the alkyl amines and the peroxy liquids can be supplied to the vaporizer alternately. The output of the vaporizer is connected to an interior region with surfaces to be decontaminated.

With reference to the carrier gas is filtered peroxide destroyed and dried . The blower blows the dry gas to the vaporizer which vaporizes liquid peroxy from the source . The liquid peroxy vapor is supplied directly to the treatment region . An atomizer receives a liquid alkaline solution from a reservoir which it atomizes or mists into mist that is discharged into the chamber . A portion of the carrier gas optionally flows through the mister to entrain and carry the mist throughout the chamber. Alternately the alkaline solution can be vaporized. Suitable alkaline solutions include water based solutions of potassium and other carbonates molybdates ammonium salts and the like.

The invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiment. Obviously modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading and understanding the preceding detailed description. It is intended that the invention be construed as including all such modifications and alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

