---

title: Method for recommending upgrade components for a computer system
abstract: Method and computer program product for recommending cost effective upgrades for a computer system. At least one performance parameter is determined for an existing computer system. Up to date performance specifications for available upgrade components are obtained. A variety of potential systems are modeled utilizing at least one upgrade component, and at least one component from the existing system to create upgrade scenarios. At least one performance parameter is predicted for each upgrade scenario. The performance parameters for the upgrade scenarios are compared to the performance parameters of the existing computer system. The cost-effectiveness is determined for each upgrade scenario, and upgrade recommendations are made when the cost-effectiveness meets or exceeds a target value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07702497&OS=07702497&RS=07702497
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07702497
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061205
---
The present invention relates to methods and systems for identifying upgrades for a computer system configuration.

Our society has become very dependent upon the ability of computers to handle complex tasks and automate routine processes. The drive to harness this ability has led to a pervasive use of computers in all aspects of modern life. Personal computer systems are used to produce documents run complex mathematical problems send and receive email access the Internet control manufacturing processes and so much more. Server systems must store and quickly access huge amounts of data run complex databases handle Internet and other communication tasks and participate in various and changing system management protocols. In a scalable environment multiple individual computer processors or systems must work in concert to handle the required tasks. The demands placed on these computers can change rapidly as new applications are adopted and whole generations learn to rely upon them for everyday tasks.

Regardless of sophistication computer systems are comprised of a combination of inter related components. Whether the system is a personal computer PC or a server in a business environment the system may be upgraded through the substitution or replacement of its component parts or by the inclusion of additional components. Upgrade components may also vary in scope from individual subcomponents like a memory chip to groups of complete computer systems. The availability of new technology has lead to large leaps in computer performance and this trend is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. As a result an established computer system can quickly become outdated and perform poorly as demand increases.

The load on a computer system is the set of tasks the system is instructed to complete. When the load is known or predictable the performance of an existing computer system with upgraded components may be modeled to predict performance. However the point at which businesses can benefit the most from upgrading existing systems is difficult to determine and complicated by ever changing component types specification and costs.

Rapid advances in technology offer many opportunities for increased efficiency in the workplace. However due to the number of vendors and the array of computer hardware and software products available in today s market it is often difficult to determine when any particular upgrade is desirable or cost effective. Still there exists a need to predict the performance of a computer system under various conditions and to identify ways of improving that performance. It would be desirable to have a method of predicting this performance that could recommend ways of improving performance of the existing computer system. It would be even more desirable if the method could identify one or more of the most cost effective ways to achieve the improved performance at any particular point in time.

The present invention provides a method of recommending upgrades for a computer system and a computer program product for performing the method. The method determines at least one performance parameter for the existing computer system. The method then obtains performance specifications for one or more upgrade components. The method then models upgrade scenarios for various combinations of existing system components and upgrade components. The model predicts at least one performance parameter of each upgrade scenario. The performance parameters of the existing computer system are compared to the predicted performance parameters of the upgrade scenarios in order to quantify performance benefits associated with each of the one or more upgrade scenarios.

The method may further comprise determining a cost effectiveness of the upgrade scenarios wherein the cost effectiveness is a configurable relationship between the predicted performance parameters of the upgrade scenarios and the performance parameters of the existing computer system. Optionally upon the determination of cost effectiveness the method may recommend upgrades when the cost effectiveness meets or exceeds a target value. Further the method may model one or more upgrade scenarios associated with enabling on demand software or hardware residing in the existing computer system or allow for purchase of recommended upgrades.

The present invention provides a method for modeling and predicting performance parameters for a plurality of upgrade scenarios for an existing computer system. The method establishes at least one performance parameter for the existing computer system. The performance parameter may be any metric used to assess performance of a computer system such as millions of instructions per second MIPS time to compile database access time server response time to clients processor load etc. The method then obtains specifications for at least one upgrade component. At least one upgrade scenario is modeled including at least one of the upgrade components in combination with at least as portion of the existing system component in order to predict a performance parameter for the upgrade scenario. The performance parameter of the upgrade scenario is then compared to the performance parameter of the existing computer system. A report is preferably provided to show the changes in performance that could be expected if the existing computer system were upgraded to include the upgrade components associated with each upgrade scenario.

In one embodiment the existing computer system is monitored and one or more performance parameters of the existing computer system are determined. The monitoring system may include hardware and software. Existing computer performance monitoring solutions may be utilized for this purpose. One example is the Windows Performance Monitor. Such an application may monitor performance parameters and provide access to this data through an application programming interface. Alternatively the method and computer program product of the invention may provide independent monitoring of performance.

Specifications for available upgrade components are obtained from a database of upgrade components via the internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or from a file stored locally on the existing computer system. Optionally the specifications may be obtained electronically whenever there is a change to the database or at determined time intervals. This may take the form of downloading information to a local database accessing a remote database via a network upon receiving a notification that there have been changes to the remote database or accessing the remote database via a network at predetermined time intervals. The specifications may also be physically obtained such as loading a floppy disk containing information generated by the database or keying in information from a report generated by the remote database. Such specifications may be provided by component vendors distributors or retailers.

The database of upgrade components contains a list of currently available upgrade components specifications for each of the currently available upgrade components and preferably current pricing for each of the currently available upgrade components. The upgrade components may include items such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM motherboards printed circuit boards commonly referred to as cards additional server blades high speed switches data storage devices communication devices or any other component of a computer system. The upgrade components may include multiple simultaneous upgrades affording a move to a new technology or protocol for example a change from wired to optical fiber based communication technology . The upgrade components may also include software. The specifications may include performance parameters for the upgrade components either singly or when utilized in combination with other upgrade components such as dimensions duty cycle ratings MIPS or any other characteristics of the upgrade components. The pricing information may be listed for single upgrade components or combinations of upgrade components. The pricing information may also be time sensitive limited to a particular customer vendor contract or any other applicable restrictions and include validity or applicability rules.

After determining one or more performance parameters of the existing computer system one or more upgrade scenarios can be modeled. Each modeled upgrade scenario preferably uses at least one of the existing computer system components in combination with one or more upgrade components. However it may also be possible to model an upgrade scenario comprising the replacement of the system under analysis with an entirely new system. Additionally it may be possible to model an upgrade scenario consisting of the addition of new systems to the existing set of systems under analysis. Each upgrade scenario is modeled to predict at least one performance parameter. The predicted performance parameters may be based upon models that use historical data or known future jobs. After predicting one or more performance parameters of the upgrade scenario these performance parameters are compared to the one or more performance parameters of the existing computer system. A level of performance improvement associated with an upgrade scenario is then determined and a report can be provided preferably including some measure of cost effectiveness. The report is most preferably configurable to show the predicted performance parameters including the cost effectiveness of the upgrade scenarios and therefore the cost effectiveness of the upgrade components. The report may also provide an opportunity for the user to enable any on demand upgrade components in the existing computer system or purchase upgrade components as desired.

The method can be configured to run periodically manually on demand by the user whenever the database of upgrade components is updated or upon the occurrence of any triggering event. A change in availability or pricing of the upgrade components may affect the selection of upgrade scenarios to be modeled or the desirability of that upgrade scenario based upon the resulting cost effectiveness parameter. A cost benefit analysis may be configured to evaluate the upgrade scenarios and their desirability. The configuration of the cost benefit analysis may include the performance parameter of the existing computer system the predicted performance parameter of the upgrade scenario costs associated with the upgrade components included in the upgrade scenario installation costs the expected life of the upgrade components and any other applicable factors.

It should be appreciated that the present method may be implemented in software that is stored as executable instructions on a computer readable medium on the server system such as in mass storage device or in memory . The server system is shown having a server application program and an upgrade component database stored in mass storage device . The application program can apply the method and generate upgrade scenarios with predicted performance parameters. The list of upgrade scenarios with predicted performance parameters can then be presented in a manner viewable by the client system . This list may be displayed on a web page accessible to the client system emailed to the client system or listed in a file downloadable by the client system. The list may also be sent physically such as in printed reports mailed to the user of the client system or saved to non volatile memory such as a floppy disk or flash memory and mailed to the user of the client system.

The present method may also be implemented in software that is stored as executable instructions on a computer readable medium on the client system such as in mass storage device or in memory . The client system is shown having a client application program and an upgrade component database . Alternatively the client application program may communicate with the upgrade component database stored in mass storage device on the server in order to obtain specifications for the upgrade components.

The present method may also utilize monitoring hardware or software to establish the at least one performance parameter for the existing client system . The monitoring hardware or software may accomplish tasks such as tracking types of tasks and obtaining performance data for each type of task as well as the number and type of task performed. The monitoring hardware or software reports to the modeling application program that is also in communication with the upgrade component database to determine when changes are made to the upgrade component database.

The communications network is the medium used to provide communications links between the server and any number of various devices and computers individually represented as computer . The communications network may include permanent connections such as wire or fiber optic cables or temporary connections made through telephone or wireless communications. The server system may include additional servers clients routers and other devices not shown. In the example of the network system may include the Internet a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another . Of course the Web application server may also communicate over a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN .

It should be recognized that the implementation of the method may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In particular embodiments including those embodiments of methods the invention may be implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software and microcode.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W DVD read only memory DVD ROM and DVD read write DVD R W .

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Computer further includes a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical disk drive interface respectively. Although the exemplary environment described herein employs hard disk removable magnetic disk and removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges RAMs ROMs and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computer . For example the operating system and application programs such as a client application may be stored in the RAM and or hard disk of the computer .

A user may enter commands and information into personal computer through input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but input devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port a universal serial bus USB or the like. A display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . Remote computer may be another personal computer a server a client a router a network PC a peer device a mainframe a personal digital assistant an Internet connected mobile telephone or other common network node. While a remote computer typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer only a memory storage device has been illustrated in the figure. The logical connections depicted in the figure include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is often connected to the local area network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing high speed communications over WAN such as the Internet. A modem which may be internal or external is connected to system bus via serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to personal computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. A number of program modules may be stored on hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system and client application .

The described example shown in does not imply architectural limitations. For example those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present method may be implemented in other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems multi node or clustered systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network personal computers minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

In step specifications for available upgrade components are obtained such as from a remote server. The specifications may include compatibility data dimensions pricing and any other applicable characteristics of the upgrade components. In step upgrade scenarios are generated utilizing a combination of existing system components and upgrade components. Numerous upgrade scenarios may be generated in this step. All of the permutations of existing system components with available upgrade components may be considered.

In step one or more performance parameters are established for the existing computer system. In establishing the one or more performance parameters the hardware and software configurations of the existing computer system may be considered in conjunction with the historical job types and future scheduled jobs. At least one performance parameter is determined to quantify the performance of the existing computer system. The desired at least one performance parameter may be any measurable parameter that the user considers significant. The performance parameter of the existing computer system is needed as an input to the modeling of the upgrade scenario and also for comparison with a predicted performance parameter of the upgrade scenario.

In step one or more performance parameters are predicted for each upgrade scenario generated in step . These one or more performance parameters are preferably of the same type as the one or more performance parameters determined for the existing system. If multiple performance parameters are determined for the existing computer system the same performance parameters are preferably predicted for the upgrade scenarios.

In step predicted performance parameters of each upgrade scenario are compared to the performance parameters of the existing computer system. This comparison may be configurable. A ratio difference amount or any other relative strength equation may be utilized. In step the cost effectiveness of each upgrade scenario is determined. The cost effectiveness will be dependent upon the degree of predicted improvement i.e. the relative improvement of the predicted performance parameter in relationship to the existing performance parameter as well as a cost to implement. This cost effectiveness is configurable to incorporate business needs and goals. For example if time to compile is a rate limiting step and speed is desired the ratio of relative improvement to cost may be set to a low desired target value. By contrast if millions of instructions per second MIPS is not a key variable the ratio of relative improvement to cost may be set to a high desired target value. Any desired equation can be input to generate a cost effectiveness rating.

In step the process generates a report that recommends upgrade components. The recommendation may be triggered by a cost effectiveness rating above a target point. This target is configurable for the user. Preferably the report will detail several different upgrade scenarios and their associated performance parameters and cost effectiveness. The report may provide a ranking or comparative analysis of the various possible upgrade scenarios. The report may be utilized in any way including direct transmission to the system owner transmission to a customer sales representative or transmission to a third party.

The terms comprising including and having as used in the claims and specification herein shall be considered as indicating an open group that may include other elements not specified. The terms a an and the singular forms of words shall be taken to include the plural form of the same words such that the terms mean that one or more of something is provided. The term one or single may be used to indicate that one and only one of something is intended. Similarly other specific integer values such as two may be used when a specific number of things is intended. The terms preferably preferred prefer optionally may and similar terms are used to indicate that an item condition or step being referred to is an optional not required feature of the invention.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

