---

title: Method and system for associating concurrent telephone and data network sessions
abstract: A method and system for associating concurrent communication sessions. First and second communication sessions are established. The first and second communication session correspond to a common user account and are active concurrently. The first and second communication sessions are associated with each other to share data between the first and second communication sessions. The first and second communication sessions can be data network and telephone communication sessions established by a web server and a telephony network server, respectively. An application server can connect the web server and the telephony server to associate the data network and telephone communication sessions and share data between the data network and telephone network communication sessions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07970909&OS=07970909&RS=07970909
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 07970909
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060622
---
The present invention is directed generally to data network and telephone based customer service systems. More specifically the present invention is directed to associating concurrent data network and telephone communication sessions to share data between data network and telephone customer service systems during the concurrent communication sessions.

Many companies provide both telephone and data network web applications for customers users to access products and services. A telephone application can be an Interactive Voice Response IVR system to automatically interact with a user via a telephone call or an agent support system which is used by a customer service representative to assist a user via a telephone call. A web application is an application accessible by a user via a data network such as the Internet. Typically a user uses a web browser to access a web application. Telephone and web applications are used to interact with customers in a variety of fields including travel reservations i.e. flights hotels rental cars financial transactions i.e. credit card billing bank statements stock purchasing consumer products i.e. books music etc.

Although many companies provide two modes telephone and web to access their products and services the capabilities of the two modes are not equivalent. Therefore certain transactions may be available using one of the modes and not the other. For example in a case of an airline reservation system a user may be able to make reservations using a user account on a web site of the airline or by calling a customer service representative. However the user may only be able to change an existing reservation by calling the customer service representative. Furthermore when a user concurrently uses both modes changes made using one mode are not reflected in the other mode. For example in the case of an airline reservation system if a user communicates with a customer service representative via a telephone call to make changes in an itinerary the user cannot view the changes being made by the customer service representative on the web site of the airline while the changes are being made.

The present invention provides a method and system of associating two separate concurrent communication sessions corresponding to a common user account. Accordingly two separate communication sessions can be active at the same time and share data of an ongoing transaction.

In one embodiment of the present invention first and second communication sessions corresponding to a user account are established. The first and second communication session can be a web session and a telephone session respectively. When the first and second communication sessions are established values of first and second communication session status fields for the user account are set to active. When the values of both of the first and second communication fields for a user account are set to active the first and second communication sessions corresponding to the user account are automatically associated with each other such that data is shared between the first and second communication sessions.

In another embodiment of the present invention a user can input a request to share data via a first communication session corresponding to a user account. In response to the user request it is determined if a second communication session corresponding to the user account is active and if active the second communication session corresponding to the user account is associated with the first communication session corresponding to the user account to share data between the first and second communication sessions corresponding to the user account.

These and other advantages of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reference to the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

The present invention is directed to associating first and second concurrent communication sessions of a user using first and second communication modes respectively. A communication mode is a type of application and network that provides access for a user to certain products and or services. For example the present invention can be implemented using a Web browser and data network in a web communication mode and a voice telephone and a telephone network e.g. PSTN VoIP cellular in a telephone communication mode. Telephone and web communication modes are used to interact with users in a variety of fields including travel reservations i.e. flights hotels rental cars financial transactions i.e. credit card billing bank statements stock purchasing consumer products i.e. books music etc. Although the present invention is described herein using telephone and web communication modes the present invention is not limited thereto. For example a chat application can be used with a data network in a chat communication mode.

The web server is capable of communicating with a web browser of a user via a data network such as the Internet. The web server may be implemented as an HTML server a Java Enterprise server a .Net server or the like. The web server runs a web application to establish a web session with a user. The web application allows the user to interact with the web server through the web browser to access various products and or services. For example the web application can provide the user with fillable forms a virtual shopping cart etc. The web browser is an application running on a computer device of the user.

The telephony server is capable of communicating with a telephony device of a user via a telephone network . For example the telephone network can be a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular network or a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP network. Accordingly the telephony device can be a Plain Old telephone Service POTS telephone a cellular phone or a VoIP client. If the telephony device is a VoIP client it is possible that the telephony device is the same computer device that runs the web browser . The telephony server runs a telephone application to establish a telephone session with a user.

The telephone application server can be an Interactive Voice Response IVR system or an agent support system. An IVR system is an automated system which interacts with a user via a phone call. The IVR system is capable of receiving input signals from the user via the phone call. For example the input signals can be dual tone multi frequency DTMF signals corresponding to digits input from user s keypad or voice commands spoken by a user. The IVR system uses words and phrases stored in a database to respond to the input signals. An agent support system is a computer application used by a live customer service representative CSR who communicates with a user via a phone call. For example the agent support system can include a graphical user interface running on a desktop computer system of the CSR.

At step a first communication session corresponding to a user account is established using a first communication mode. For example a user who wishes to change an existing airline reservation places a telephone call to a specified number of the reservation system using the telephony device . The telephone call is answered by the telephone application running on the telephony server . As described above the telephone application can be an IVR system or a live CSR using an agent support system. The user is identified with a user account. The user may be required to input or speak account information such as an account number and a password in order to initiate a telephone session. The application server receives this account information and finds the corresponding user account in the database . The database can contain multiple records with each record comprising multiple fields. Field identifies the account number of a user and field identifies a user ID of a user.

When the first communication session corresponding to the user account is established a first communication session status field stored in the database is set to indicate that the first communication session is active. For example when a telephone session is initiated by the user a telephone session status field is set to indicate an active telephone session. The telephone session status field can be set to a value of 1 to indicate an active telephone session.

At step a second communication session corresponding to the user account is established using a second communication mode. For example the user can initiate a web session by using the web browser to log onto the airline reservations company s web site using the same account as is being used in the telephone session. The application server receives the account information from the web server and finds the corresponding user account in the database .

When the second communication session corresponding to the user account is established a second communication session status field stored in the database is set to indicate that the second communication session is active. For example when the web session is initiated by the user a web session status field is set to indicate an active web session. The web session status field can be set to a value of 1 to indicate an active web session.

As illustrated in records and show exemplary records which may be stored in the database . For example record indicates that user with account number 12345 is involved in an active telephone session and an active web session. Record indicates that user with account number 67890 is involved in an active web session but not an active telephone session.

The application server can monitor the communication session status fields stored in the database . When the application server detects that the first and second communication session status fields of a user account are both set to indicate active communication sessions the application server creates an association between the first and second communication sessions. This allows the first and second communication sessions to share data while the first and second communication sessions are both active. As illustrated in the web server and the telephony server are connected through the application server . Thus when the application server creates an association between a web session active on the web server and a telephone session active on the telephony server the web session and the telephone session can share data with each other through the application server . For example in the case of the airline reservation system the user can give instructions regarding changing a reservation via the telephone session and see a visual presentation of a new itinerary corresponding to the instructions immediately via the web session. Accordingly the user can view the new itinerary before confirming the instructions. Similarly any information added or changed using the web session is available immediately for the CSR on the agent support system or is shared with the IVR for further action or spoken presentation.

The association in effect gives permission for data to be shared between the first and second communication sessions. This permission is used so that random communication sessions cannot access one another. The association also provides a pointer to each communication session which indicates where data can be found in the other communication session. For example if a piece of information entered via the web session is needed by the CSR on the agent support system the pointer indicates to the agent support system where to find that information in the memory of or on a disk of the web server . It is possible that this pointer be in the form of an Application Programming Interface API which is made available for accessing the data of a communication session once permission has been granted to access the communication session instead of an actual software pointer but the present invention is not limited thereto.

Although in the above example the telephone session was established before the web session but the present invention is not limited thereto. The web session can be established before the telephone session or the telephone and web sessions can be established at the same time.

As described above the application server creates an association between the web server and the telephony server . However according to another embodiment of the present invention it is possible that a web server and a telephony server be configured to interact without a separate application server. In this case when a communication session corresponding to a user account is established using one of the web server and the telephony server the communicating server queries the other server to determine if another communication session corresponding to the same user account is active. The web server and the telephony server of this embodiment can be connected to each other to communicate and share data directly with each other.

As described above the communication session status fields are stored in the database with other account information but the present invention is not limited thereto. The communication session status fields may be stored in a separate database or in a temporary storage of the application server the web server or the telephony server . It is also possible that instead of storing communication session status fields the application server receives a signal corresponding to each active communication session that is established and creates an association between communication sessions when signals corresponding to two communication sessions of the same user account are received.

According to an alternate embodiment of the present invention web and telephone sessions corresponding to the same user account are associated in response to a user request. In this embodiment a user can input a request to share information via either one of the web and telephone sessions. For example the web application can include a link or a button displayed on the user s web browser to allow the user to easily input the request to share information with a concurrent telephone session. When a request to share information is input via a web session corresponding to a user account the application server receives the request and queries the telephony server to find an active telephone session corresponding to the same user account. The application server then creates an association between the corresponding telephone and web sessions such that data is shared between the corresponding telephone and web sessions.

Similarly the telephone application can provide a function to allow a user to easily input a request to share information with a concurrent web session. For example an agent support system can include an option to share information displayed on a graphical user interface. The CSR can select the option to share information on the graphical user interface in response to a verbal request from the user. If the telephone application is an IVR the user can input the request to share information in the form of DTMF digits or a voice command. When a request to share information is input via a telephone session corresponding to a user account the application server receives the request and queries the web server to find an active web session corresponding to the same user account. The application server then creates an association between the corresponding telephone and web sessions such that data is shared between the corresponding telephone and web sessions.

In order to achieve a higher level of security it is possible to supply the user with a temporary password in response to a request to share information. The user receives the temporary password via the communication session used to input the request. The user then inputs the temporary password via the other communication session and an association is created between the communication sessions. For example if the user inputs a request to share information via a web session the application server generates a temporary password and the web application displays the temporary password on the web browser of the user. The user can input the temporary password via a telephone session using DTMF digits or a voice command. The application server receives the input temporary password from the telephony server and creates an association between the web session that displayed the temporary password and the telephone session used to input the temporary password.

Similarly if the user inputs a request to share information via a telephony session the application server generates a temporary password and the telephone application supplies the temporary password to the user. In the case of an agent support system the temporary password can be displayed on the graphical user interface of a CSR and the CSR can tell the user the temporary password. In the case of an IVR the IVR speaks the temporary password to the user. The user can input the temporary password via a web session. The application server receives the input temporary password from the web server and creates an association between the telephony session that supplied the temporary password to the user and the web session used to input the temporary password.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the temporary password can be used as an additional security measure to a user account number. In this case the application server creates an association between a web session and a telephone session only if the web session and the telephone session correspond to the same user account and a temporary password presented to the user via one of the web session and telephone session is input by the user via the other one of the telephone session and the web session.

As described above various security measures can be implemented before creating an association between a web session and a telephone session. According to an embodiment of the present invention one or more of the security measures can be skipped when requesting an association between a particular pair of devices that have previously been associated. For example if a telephone session using a telephony device having a specific telephone number is successfully associated with a web session using a web browser on a specific PC the details of the association can be stored at the PC in the form of internet cookies. An internet cookie is a piece of text containing information that the web server sends to the web browser to store on the PC. The information in an internet cookie can be retrieved by the web server when the web browser communicates with the web server . The cookies can include the telephone number of the telephone . The next time a user attempts to associate web and telephone sessions using the web browser on the PC and the telephone if the cookies exist that confirm the previous association using the same devices one or more security measure such as requiring a temporary password can be skipped.

In some fields to which the present invention applies a third party may act as an intermediary between a company s system and a user. For example in the case of an airline reservation system a travel agent can initiate a telephone session with the airline reservation system to modify a user s reservation. In this case the telephone application can provide a third party login to allow the travel agent to enter the account information of the user and establish a third party association. It is possible that a third party association shares some information between the telephone session and a web session but not all information. For example the third may party may not be able to view credit card or other financial information of the user. Furthermore when a third party is communicating via a telephone session the user can initiate a web session. Because the third party has entered the user account information an association is created between the web session of the user and the telephone session of the third party. Accordingly in the web session the user can view changes made by the third party via the telephone session.

The method of associating concurrent communication sessions as described herein may be implemented at an application server. The application server can be implemented on a computer using well known computer processors memory units storage devices computer software and other components. According to another embodiment of the present invention the method of associating concurrent communication sessions can be implemented at a web server and a telephone server without an application server. The web server and the application server can also be implemented on a computer or separate computers using well known computer processors memory units storage devices computer software and other components. A high level block diagram of such a computer is illustrated in . Computer contains a processor which controls the overall operation of the computer by executing computer program instructions which define such operation. The computer program instructions may be stored in a storage device e.g. magnetic disk and loaded into memory when execution of the computer program instructions is desired. Thus the method of associating the communication sessions can be defined by the computer program instructions stored in the memory and or storage and controlled by the processor executing the computer program instructions. The computer also includes one or more network interfaces for communicating with other devices via a network. The computer also includes input output which represents devices which allow for user interaction with the computer e.g. display keyboard mouse speakers buttons etc. One skilled in the art will recognize that an implementation of an actual computer will contain other components as well and that is a high level representation of some of the components of such a computer for illustrative purposes.

The foregoing Detailed Description is to be understood as being in every respect illustrative and exemplary but not restrictive and the scope of the invention disclosed herein is not to be determined from the Detailed Description but rather from the claims as interpreted according to the full breadth permitted by the patent laws. It is to be understood that the embodiments shown and described herein are only illustrative of the principles of the present invention and that various modifications may be implemented by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Those skilled in the art could implement various other feature combinations without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

