---

title: Techniques for using chirped fields to reconfigure a medium that stores spectral features
abstract: Techniques for reconfiguring spectral features stored in a medium based on a two-state atomic system with transition dipole moment μ includes causing a chirp to pass into the medium. The chirp includes a monochromatic frequency that varies in time by a chirp rate κ over a frequency band Bduring a time interval T. The amplitude Aof the chirp is constant over Band equal to

=(bar/μπ)√{square root over ((κ ln [2/ε]))},

The term hbar is reduced Plank's constant, ln is a natural logarithm function, and π is a ratio of a circumference of a circle to a diameter of the circle. For ε<<1, the atomic-state populations in the two states are inverted. For ε=1, prior atomic-state populations are erased, with final populations equal in the two states, regardless of populations before erasure.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07307781&OS=07307781&RS=07307781
owner: Montana State University
number: 07307781
owner_city: Bozeman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060714
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 60 699 477 filed Jul. 15 2005 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Nos. MDA 972 03 1 0002 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and NRO DII 000 03 C 0312 awarded by the National Reconnaissance Office. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to configuring a medium with a two state atomic system that stores spectra at electromagnetic frequencies and in particular to the use of a chirped field to erase or invert spectra already stored in the medium.

Information processing based on optical analog signal processing promises to provide advantages in speed size and power over current information processing systems. Many versatile optical coherent transient OCT processing devices have been proposed. An OCT device relies on broadband complex spatial spectral grating formed in the optical properties of a material such as an inhomogeneously broadened transition IBT material also called a spatial spectral S2 material. A spatial spectral grating has the ability to generate a broadband optical output signal that depends on an optical probe waveform impinging on that grating and the one or more interacting optical signals that formed the grating. The optical properties of the spatial spectral grating at any electromagnetic frequency are determined by the population of atoms in each electron quantum level state of a two state atomic system.

In optical analog signal processing the medium is used to store particular spectral features of interest such as the result of the interaction of one or more optical beams carrying information. See for example published International Patent application WO 2003 098384 entitled Techniques for processing high time bandwidth signals using a material with inhomogeneously broadened absorption spectrum Inventors K. D. Merkel Z. Cole K. M. Rupavatharam W. R. Babbitt T. Chang and K. H. Wagner 27 Nov. 2003 hereinafter Merkel the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

In some circumstances including those described by Merkel the medium is an optically absorptive medium when most of the population is in the ground state of the two electron quantum level states. This reduces the signal level of a readout beam transmitted through the medium. However when the population is evenly divided between the two states and all coherent superposition states have decayed away the medium is transparent e.g. signal levels transmitted are essentially equal to the signal levels impinging. Furthermore when most of the population is in the excited state the medium is amplifying e.g. signal levels transmitted are greater than the signal levels impinging.

Once the medium has been endowed with spectral content in the form of frequency dependent or spatially dependent populations or both the same portion of the medium can not be reused immediately without contamination by the previously stored spectral content. It is therefore necessary to return the populations of the two states to a uniform level over a range of frequencies independent of the previously stored spectral content before processing independent signals in the medium. The process of making population uniform over a frequency range is called erasure.

One approach used to erase spectral content in a frequency range is to wait for the atoms in the excited state to decay to the ground state so that essentially the entire population of atoms of interest is in the ground state. A disadvantage of this approach is that decay is typically exponential and requires waiting very long times compared to desirable processing rates to effectively return the population to the ground state.

Another approach is to add energy to the system so that the entire population is in the excited state making a uniform spectrum and wait for the system to decay to a level desired for processing such as all in the ground state or equal populations in both states. A disadvantage of this approach is that it takes substantial energy. Another disadvantage is that it takes a long time to decay to a desired population distribution even to equal populations in both states.

Another approach is to write on top of the previously written spectrum with approximately the opposite spectral content such that the process cancels the previous spectral grating. A disadvantage of this approach is that the spectral content already stored in the medium must be known well. Another disadvantage is that perfect cancellation is not possible due to non linearities and population decay. Furthermore the population decay time must be very long compared to the time to perform the erasure so that the over write does not impose a lower strength inversion of the original spectrum.

It is sometimes advantageous to invert the population levels without removing the spectral content. For example when the spectral content in an absorbing medium is such that most of the atoms are in the ground state it is advantageous to invert the population levels so that the readout beam signal level is higher. The process of inverting the population of the two states is called inversion. However no publication known to applicants has addressed inversion of frequency dependent populations publications have only addressed uniform populations.

In one approach to inverting a uniform population over a frequency band a chirped optical field has been used. The frequency and amplitude of the chirped field are as given for a hyperbolic secant in Table 1 described next.

Other two state atomic systems have been used. For example in nuclear magnetic resonance NMR applications the populations of atoms in two quantum spin states are measured. These spin states affect the signals emitted at electromagnetic frequencies outside the optical frequency range.

Inversion of a uniform spin population in a two spin system has been proposed using a variety of functional forms for time dependence of amplitude and frequency in a series of papers including U.S. Pat. No. 6 064 207 by E. Kupce entitled Adiabatic pulses for wideband inversion and broadband decoupling May 16 2000 hereinafter Kupce the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Table 1 summarizes the functional forms described in these series of publications.

Based on the foregoing there is a clear need for techniques to configure a medium to eliminate the influence of prior stored spectral features such as gratings that do not suffer all the deficiencies of prior approaches.

Based on the foregoing there is also a need for techniques to configure a medium to invert prior stored non uniform spectral features such as gratings that do not suffer all the deficiencies of prior approaches.

1. Techniques are provided for reconfiguring spectral features in a medium using a chirped electromagnetic field. These techniques allow for erasure or inversion or both and enable faster OCT and NMR processing as well as adjustable integrated absorption of a material in selectable frequency bands and selectable spatial portions of the medium.

In a first set of embodiments a method for erasing spectral features stored in a medium includes causing a chirped electromagnetic field to pass into the medium. The spectral features are based on a two state atomic system having a transition dipole moment of in which an atom transitions between a first state and a second state. The chirped electromagnetic field has a monochromatic frequency that varies in time by a chirp rate over an erasure frequency band of bandwidth Bduring an erasure time interval T. A maximum amplitude Aof the electromagnetic field oscillations in the chirped electromagnetic field over the erasure frequency band is substantively constant and substantively specified by an equation of form bar square root over ln 2 in which hbar is reduced Plank s constant and ln is a natural logarithm function. As a result substantively fifty percent of the two state atomic system responsive in the erasure frequency band exposed to the chirped electromagnetic field is in the first state after erasure regardless of a percentage in the first state before erasure.

In some embodiments of the first set the chirped electromagnetic field further includes a start edge in a start time interval Tadjacent before the erasure time interval T. An amplitude Aof the electromagnetic field oscillations during the start time interval Tincreases with a substantively continuous first derivative from substantively zero at a start of the start time interval Tto Aand a substantively zero rate of change at an end of the start time interval T.

In some embodiments of the first set a frequency t of the electromagnetic field oscillations at a time t during the start time interval Tchanges with a substantively continuous first derivative to match a start frequency and start frequency rate of change s at a start of the erasure time interval T.

In some embodiments of the first set a phase of the electromagnetic field oscillations during the start time interval Tchanges with a substantively continuous first derivative to match a start phase and start phase rate of change at a start of the erasure time interval T.

In some embodiments of the first set the chirped electromagnetic field further includes a finish edge in a finish time interval Tadjacent after the erasure time interval T. An amplitude Aof the electromagnetic field oscillations during the finish time interval Tdecreases with a substantively continuous first derivative from a value substantively equal to Awith a substantively zero rate of change at a start of the finish time interval Tto zero at an end of the finish time interval T.

In some embodiments of the first set a frequency t of the electromagnetic field oscillations at a time t during the finish time interval Tchanges with a substantively continuous first derivative to match an end erase frequency e and an end erase frequency rate of change e at an end of the erasure time interval T.

In some embodiments of the first set a phase of the electromagnetic field oscillations during the finish time interval Tchanges with a substantively continuous first derivative to match an end erase phase and an end erase phase rate of change at an end of the erasure time interval T.

In some embodiments of the first set the chirp rate is substantively constant over the erasure frequency band and substantively equal to B T.

In some embodiments of the first set interactions of the chirped electromagnetic field and the medium are coherent over a time scale up to time T. The chirp rate within the erasure frequency band satisfies an inequality given by ln 2 whereby erasure is effective even at small values for T.

In a second set of embodiments a method for inverting non uniform spectral features stored in a medium includes causing a chirped electromagnetic field to pass into the medium. The non uniform spectral features are based on a two state atomic system having a transition dipole moment of in which an atom transitions between a first state and a second state. The chirped electromagnetic field has a monochromatic frequency that varies in time by a chirp rate over an inversion frequency band of bandwidth Bduring an inversion time interval T. A maximum amplitude Aof the electromagnetic field oscillations in the chirped electromagnetic field over the inversion frequency band is substantively constant and substantively specified by an equation of form bar square root over ln 2 in which hbar is Plank s constant ln is a natural logarithm and is a non zero fractional difference from complete inversion. As a result a particular relative population r of the excited state of the two state atomic system responsive at a particular frequency in the inversion frequency band exposed to the chirped electromagnetic field is substantively equal to X 1 after inversion when the relative population of the excited state is X before inversion wherein r is 1 for all atoms in the excited state and 1 for all atoms in the ground state.

In other sets of embodiments an apparatus is configured to perform one or more steps of the above methods.

In various embodiments these population reconfiguration techniques enable a medium to be erased and reused in a shorter time than population decay even when the stored spectrum is unknown.

Furthermore in various embodiments these population reconfiguration techniques enable a net absorptive path through a stored spectrum to switch to a net gain amplification path through the same spectrum.

Furthermore in various embodiments these techniques allow a portion of an absorptive medium to be set to any desired level of absorption such as any between absorption associated with fully populated ground state and gain associated with fully populated excited state.

Techniques are described for reconfiguring atomic state populations using a chirped laser field. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Several embodiments of the invention are descried below in the context of spectral spatial gratings formed by optical absorption variations in an IBT material. However the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments of the invention the techniques are applied to other two state atomic systems in which population in each state determines other optical or non optical electromagnetic properties including such properties as absorption refraction reflection polarization fluorescence. In some embodiments the atomic systems include one or more additional states that are relatively rarely populated compared to the two primary transition states or that can be substantially populated such as one or more bottleneck states in the decay from the excited state to inhibit transitions to those additional states.

Swept frequency modulated electromagnetic signals are called herein chirped electromagnetic fields and chirped laser fields when the frequencies are confined to the optical range. The frequency sweep can be linear in time with a constant chirp rate called linear chirp or linear frequency modulation LFM or non linear with a time varying chirp rate. Optical LFM signals have been used as waveforms in pulse sequences to write spatial spectral gratings for applications of storage signal processing true time delay generation and arbitrary waveform generation and also as probe waveforms for readout of spectral gratings. Such LFM probe waveforms generate a temporal output signal that represents a collective readout of all the absorbers as with brief pulse excitation but under the condition of swept excitation. By properly choosing the rate of frequency change with time called herein the chirp rate a temporal readout is produced that is slow enough to be digitized by low cost high performance digitizers in the frequency bands of interest as described by Merkel. The frequency sweep rate or chirp rate over the band is defined as the frequency scan range or bandwidth of the chirp Bc divided by the duration of the sweep time Tc as given by Expression 2a 2a 

Electromagnetic spectral processing system includes a controller one or more electromagnetic EM source electromagnetic couplers collectively referenced hereinafter as couplers electromagnetic modulators two atomic state material such as IBT material electromagnetic detectors and post detection electronics such as electromagnetic signal analyzer .

In the illustrated embodiment EM source includes an input laser and a laser stabilization block . This laser provides stabilized optical carrier frequency beams in the TeraHertz range THz 1 THz 10cycles per second used to carry a target optical spectrum and a chirped laser field used as a probe waveform and a population reconfiguration waveform. In some embodiments a single laser provides the carrier frequency beam for both the target optical spectrum and probe signals. In some embodiments additional laser sources are included in EM source . In some various embodiments electric signals from laser stabilization block controls frequency amplitude or phase or some combination for laser . Propagation of EM waveforms is indicated in by straight arrows. Electronic connections for signal processing and control are represented by segmented lines without arrowheads.

The EM couplers direct EM waveforms such as optical beam between the various components and include such optical couplers as mirrors phase plates optical fibers among others well known in the art of optics and electromagnetic propagation. In the illustrated embodiment EM coupler splits carrier beam into two carrier beams at the same optical frequency.

The EM modulators modulate the carrier frequency beams to produce signal beams with rich frequency content. In the illustrated embodiment EM modulators include input signal source acousto optic modulators AOMs collectively referenced hereinafter as AOMs and arbitrary waveform generator AWG . In some embodiments one or more AOMs are replaced with or added to other optical modulators such as one or more electro optic phase modulators EOPMs electro optic amplitude modulators and electro absorption modulators. In some embodiments AWG is replaced by or added to other wave generators such as one or more pulse pattern generators.

The input signal source is any combination of components that generate a target optical spectrum to be placed on an optical carrier for use in system . For example input signal source is a radio frequency signal to be analyzed such as a radar pulse or its reflected return or both as described in Merkel. The input signal source is an electronic signal such as a voltage. AOMs are used to modulate the optical carrier from input laser in proportion to the sign and magnitude of an applied RF voltage. This produces an encoded optical field with a target optical spectrum. In other embodiments other modulators are used in place of or in addition to AOMs to produce optical field encoded in frequency or amplitude or both with the target optical spectrum. In other embodiments multiple modulated laser beams in one or more directions interact to form the optical target optical spectrum. The single direction of the depicted optical field is called a collinear geometry which records only the spectral content of the signal. In some embodiments various angled beam geometries are used in which the signal consists of multiple beams impinging on the two state material e.g. IBT material in different directions.

The AWG generates a chirped radio frequency waveform such as a linear radio frequency chirp of bandwidth B around a carrier radio frequency. The AOM imposes this same chirp bandwidth B on the laser carrier beam to produce one or more chirped laser fields starting at an optical frequency s . In other embodiments the laser can create an optical chirp and no external modulator scheme such as the combination of components and is needed or used

The EM two atomic state material e.g. IBT material records one or more EM fields that impinge on the material with sufficient intensity and duration. When multiple beams interact in the material at different angles spatial spectral structures are formed in the material. When all beams impinge in the same direction only spectral content is recorded. For example in some embodiments the two atomic state material is an IBT material that stores a complex spatial spectral grating as absorption variations within a doped low temperature crystal. In some embodiments the one or more optical fields produce target optical spectra as spectral or spatial spectral gratings. In some embodiments one or more chirped laser fields are recorded as spectral or spatial spectral gratings in IBT material . At a later time another optical beam is directed with relatively lower intensity to the optical material IBT to produce one or more response fields collectively referenced hereinafter as response fields . The chirped laser field and the optical field may impinge on the material at the same location and angle or at different locations and angles.

In some embodiments for laser stabilization field is also passed by coupler into IBT material and a feedback field is emitted by the IBT material . The feedback field is passed by EM coupler as field to laser stabilization block . Based on the properties of feedback field the laser stabilization block controls laser .

For heterodyne readout processes a reference optical field e.g. field is also produced in addition to a primary response field e.g. . Any method of generating a reference field may be used. In the illustrated embodiment the reference optical field emerges from the optical material usually in a spatial mode that has not recorded the target optical spectrum from optical field such as experienced by chirped laser field . In some embodiments the reference signal is a chirped laser field not shown that has not passed through the IBT material . In some embodiments the reference signal is the transmitted probe signal that is naturally in the same direction as the response signal that itself is often delayed. Thus in such embodiments the signal detected at the optical detectors is naturally heterodyne. In some embodiments the reference signal is a response signal from the chirped optical field interacting with one or more spatial spectral gratings recorded in the IBT material for the purpose of generating a reference field.

The EM detectors include one or more detectors such as optical detector that detect the time varying optical intensity in a certain optical bandwidth. In some embodiments a one or two dimensional array of optical detectors is used to simultaneously detect a response field on multiple spatial modes. Scanned or instant images can be generated by the array of detectors. In some embodiments the EM detector detects only the response field . In some embodiments the EM detector detects the heterodyne combination of the response field and reference field . For example the heterodyne combination generates beat frequency variations that are much lower in frequency and larger in amplitude than response signal intensity variations therefore the beat frequency variations are more accurately measured with current detectors.

The post detection electronics in EM analyzer use electrical signals output by detectors . In the illustrated embodiment EM analyzer includes a scope digitizer and processor. In various embodiments EM analyzer includes different hardware and software components.

The controller uses electronic signals to control EM modulators and EM source . In some embodiments the controller uses electronic signals from EM analyzer to determine how to control EM source and EM modulators . In various embodiments controller includes different hardware and software components that perform the methods described in the next section.

In various embodiments spectral content is imposed in the IBT material or read or both based on the interaction of one or more optical fields or or both. The spectral content is then erased or inverted or both based on one or more subsequent chirped electromagnetic fields designed for reconfiguration of atomic state populations in IBT material .

For example is a graph that illustrates spectral content in at least a portion of a medium in terms of relative population of excited state in a two state atomic medium such as IBT material . The horizontal axis represents frequency of electromagnetic oscillations that interact with the medium in the portion of interest. The vertical axis represents the relative population of atoms in the excited state r in the portion of the medium of interest. In some publications the quantity r represented by the vertical axis is called population inversion because it increases as the percentage of atoms in the excited state. However to avoid confusion with the use of the term inversion for the inverting action described herein the term relative population of excited state is used herein. A value of 1 indicates that substantively 100 of the atoms are in the ground state. A value of 1 indicates that substantively 100 of the atoms are in the excited state. A value of 0 indicates that substantively 50 of the atoms are in the ground state and substantively 50 of the atoms are in the excited state. The same atom type with the same dipole moment absorbs and emits at different frequencies based on inhomogeneities of the surrounding material.

It is assumed for purposes of illustration that in the ground state an atom absorbs an incident photon of the associated EM frequency and in the excited state an atom emits a photon of the associated EM frequency when stimulated by an incident photon of that frequency. As a result the medium is a maximum absorbing medium when the relative population is 1 is a transparent medium when the relative population is about 0 and is a maximum amplifying gain medium when the relative population is 1. Between 1 and 0 the medium is an absorbing medium to various degrees. Between 0 and 1 the medium is a gain medium to various degrees.

The graph includes trace that depicts the relative populations of the excited state for atoms that respond to different incident photon frequencies. The population shows frequency dependent variations called herein spectral features or spectral content. The spectral features may be imposed in any manner known in the art including illuminating the medium with one or more signals made up of photon beams of various frequency components with sufficient intensity for sufficient duration such as described in Merkel.

For purposes of illustration it is assumed that in a frequency band of interest from to B on axis in this spatial portion of interest in the medium it is desirable to reconfigure the population. The bandwidth B of the frequency band of interest to be reconfigured is depicted in . The reconfiguration involves erasure or inversion or both as described in more detail below. It is noted that the medium is mostly absorbing in the frequency band to be reconfigured.

It is noted that uniform absorbing amplifying properties of the medium can be set with a combination of erasure waiting for decay and inversion. For example in some embodiments absorption associated with a relative population value of 0.5 is achieved for any frequency band of interest by erasing that band and waiting for a particular time until population decay has produced a relative population value of 0.5. In general to achieve a desired relative population value rd after the erasure process has been completed the waiting time T is given by Expression 2b. 1 ln 1 1 2b where T1 is the excited state population lifetime. As a result absorption associated with an rd value of 0.5 is achieved in these embodiments by 1 erasing that band 2 waiting for a time Tgiven by Expression 2b with rd 0.5. As a further example in some embodiments a gain associated with a relative population value of 0.5 is achieved for any frequency band of interest by adding the following step after the above two steps 3 inverting the same frequency band.

The following sections show how erasure or inversion of an arbitrary frequency band in a portion of interest in a material can be achieved.

The following theoretical considerations are presented so that the working of embodiments of the invention may be more readily described and understood. However the invention is not limited by the assumptions or statements or accuracy of these theoretical descriptions.

It has been observed that when an atom or some other two state system is illuminated by a coherent beam of photons it will cyclically absorb photons and re emit them by stimulated emission. One such cycle is called a Rabi cycle and the inverse of its duration is called the Rabi frequency of the photon beam designated herein as . The Rabi frequency depends on a dipole moment of a transition between the two states and the maximum amplitude Amax of the electromagnetic field oscillations of the coherent beam. Amax is proportional to the square root of the intensity of the beam. A Rabi frequency may be defined for electric charge states interacting with an electric field E or for magnetic states interacting with a magnetic field H of the propagating electromagnetic wave. The Rabi frequency is defined by Expression 3. max bar 3 where hbar is reduced Plank s constant and as suggested above is the transition dipole moment of a two level atom on which the field acts.

For population reconfiguration over a frequency band of interest it is ideal that the amplitude Amax be constant for all frequencies in the band. A constant amplitude linear chirp with a high time bandwidth product Tc Bc over a band much larger than the band of interest has such a constant amplitude in the band of interest. The changes in relative population r driven by such an ideal chirp with Rabi Frequency have been investigated and can be expressed by the following Expressions 4a and 4b. 1 2 4a 1 exp 4b where ti is time before application of the chirp tf is time after application of the chirp and exp x is the function representing e the base of the natural logarithm ln e 1 raised to the power x. In the following the symbol ri denotes r ti and the symbol rf denotes r tf . The quantity is called the driving strength of the field with chirp rate and Rabi Frequency . varies between 0 and 1. It is expected that Expressions 4a and 4b also apply for slowly changing chirp rate over the frequency band of interest and for magnetic states responding to magnetic oscillations at non optical frequencies.

According to various embodiments of the invention amplitude Amax of electromagnetic oscillations is chosen so that over a finite frequency band of a chirp Amax leads to a value of associated with either erasure or relative population inversion.

It is noted that when equals rf equals zero. Because does not depend on rf equals zero for all frequencies thus effectively erasing all frequencies in the linear chirp regardless of the initial populations at those frequencies. This can be seen in . When 2 1 equals 0 i.e. at value on axis the relative population at all frequencies goes to zero and the spectral content is erased. Using the definition of the Rabi Frequency in Expression 2a and the definition of in Expression 4b Amax can be determined that is associated with erasure as derived in Expressions 5a through 5g. 2 1 0 5a 1 exp 5b exp 5c ln 5d 1 ln 2 5e max bar 1 ln 2 5f max bar ln 2 5g 

It is further noted that as approaches a value of 1 the relative population inverts from ri at time ti to ri at time tf. When 2 1 equals 1 the populations are inverted. As can be seen in and neither nor 2 1 ever equal 1 but both asymptotically approach 1. It is noted however that for any difference 2 1 1 at point on axis . Therefore it is possible to select a desired value that is arbitrarily small. The associated value of results in a relative population that is arbitrarily close to complete inversion. Amax can be determined that is associated with near complete inversion as derived in Expressions 6a through 6g. 2 1 1 6a 1 exp 1 2 6b exp 2 6c ln 2 6d 1 ln 2 6e max bar 1 ln 2 6f max bar ln 2 6g 

It is noted that Expression 5g is equivalent to Expression 6g with 1. However inversion is nearly achieved using Expression 6g only when 

Theoretically Expression 4a and consequently Expression 5g and Expression 6g applies for a large time bandwidth product i.e. Tc Bc 1 which ensures a uniform spectral amplitude for the chirped electromagnetic pulse over the frequency band. A linear chirp truncated in time tthe band of interest typically has spectral amplitude fluctuations within the frequency band of interest. The spectral amplitude fluctuations can be minimized by adding edges before and after the frequency band of interest in which the amplitude rises and falls respectively sufficiently slowly to achieve this effect. Several functional forms for slowly rising and falling amplitudes are listed in Table 1. Others may also be used.

According to some embodiments of the invention functional forms for rising and falling edges also called start edge and finish edge respectively are selected so that the values and first derivatives of amplitude frequency and phase are all continuous at the boundaries with the frequency band of interest. In some embodiments the frequency functional forms are selected to use as little of the frequency bandwidth available in the equipment as possible during the start and finish edges so that most of the available bandwidth is left for the band of interest to be reconfigured. In various embodiments both linear and non linear chirps are used in the frequency band to be reconfigured.

Trace plots the maximum amplitude for a coherent beam with a square maximum amplitude envelope. Trace plots the maximum amplitude for a coherent beam with a slowly varying start edge and a slowly varying finish edge sandwiching a constant amplitude reconfiguration chirp. The constant amplitude reconfiguration chirp has duration T beginning at time t. The start edge has duration T ending at to . The finish edge has duration TF beginning at time t plus T. Trace plots a non linear frequency variation of the electromagnetic oscillations for both trace and trace . In some embodiments a linear frequency chirp not shown is used instead of trace for one or more beams in the reconfiguration interval or one or both edges or in all three bands. During the time interval Tfor the constant amplitude reconfiguration chirp the frequency changes from to plus reconfiguration bandwidth B. The trace for the square envelope begins at a lower frequency and extends to a higher frequency .

The sharp edges of the square envelope trace cause spectral amplitude variations in frequencies throughout the reconfiguration band B. The slowly rising and falling amplitude envelopes of trace smooth the amplitude in the reconfiguration band B at the cost of losing available bandwidth outside B e.g. between and and between and plus B.

The coherence time of the medium restricts the coherent response to the coherent beam of photons propagating through the medium. Here is described how the coherence time puts a lower limit on the chirp rate that can be effective in reconfiguring the atomic state populations.

When the coherent electromagnetic field has frequency the atoms in the frequency range are also driven by the field due to the coherence limit of the atomic transitions or laser carrier frequency or other effects where is the effective coherent bandwidth for the various participants in the interaction. The coherence time Tis the reciprocal of . The more coherent the process the longer is T and the narrower is . The condition to ignore incoherent driving is given by Expressions 7a through 7f. 1 ln 2 7b Similarly using Expression 5e or substituting 1 for in 7b for erasure yields 1 ln 2 7c 

The material coherence time Tcan be increased by various well known methods such as lowering doping concentrations applying an external electromagnetic field or lowering temperature. Such activities increase Tand allow lower chirp rates to be used effectively.

In step the start frequency and bandwidth Bof the frequency band to reconfigure for each of one or more frequency bands are determined.

In step it is determined whether the frequency band is to be erased or inverted. If it is determined that the frequency band is to be erased then control passes to step . In step a value for is set to one 1 and control passes to step .

If it is determined in step that the frequency band is to be inverted then control passes to step . In step a value for is set to an arbitrarily small value and control passes to step . There is a tradeoff during step . The smaller the value of selected in the case of infinite material coherent time T the stronger the Amax of the chirp must be for a given chirp rate. The larger the value of the less accurately is the original spectral content represented in the inverted populations. In some circumstances due to incoherence a particularly small value of cannot be achieved as described in more detail later with reference to

In step a minimum chirp rate is determined in the reconfiguration band based on the coherence time T using Expression 7b or 7c as appropriate for erasure and inversion respectively. Once the minimum chirp rate is determined a functional form for the chirp in the reconfiguration band is also selected using a linear or non linear chirp rate. Based on the functional form for the chirp and the start frequency and bandwidth Bselected in step for the reconfiguration band the duration Tof the chirp in the reconfiguration band is determined.

In step the constant maximum electromagnetic field amplitude Afor the reconfiguration band is determined based on Expression 5g or 6g as appropriate for erasure and inversion respectively.

In step start and finish edges are determined to bracket the reconfiguration band. The maximum amplitude Aof the electromagnetic field oscillations during the start time interval Tincreases with a substantively continuous first derivative from substantively zero at a start of the start time interval Tto Aand a substantively zero rate of change at an end of the start time interval T. Similarly the maximum amplitude Aof the electromagnetic field oscillations during the finish time interval Tdecreases with a substantively continuous first derivative from a value substantively equal to Awith a substantively zero rate of change at a start of the finish time interval Tto zero at an end of the finish time interval T.

The frequency t of the electromagnetic field oscillations at a time t during the start time interval Tchanges with a substantively continuous first derivative to match a start frequency and start frequency rate of change s at a start of the reconfiguration time interval T. Similarly a frequency t of the electromagnetic field oscillations at a time t during the finish time interval Tchanges with a substantively continuous first derivative to match an end reconfigure frequency e and an end reconfiguration frequency rate of change e at an end of the reconfiguration time interval T. In some embodiments the functional forms of the frequency variations in the start and finish time intervals are selected to minimize the total bandwidth in the start and finish time intervals. In some embodiments the frequency variation in the start edge is constant and equal to s. In some embodiments the frequency variation in the finish edge is constant and equal to e. In some of these embodiments when c is constant in the reconfiguration interval s e c.

A phase of the electromagnetic field oscillations during the start time interval Tchanges with a substantively continuous first derivative to match a start phase and start phase rate of change at a start of the reconfiguration time interval T. Similarly a phase of the electromagnetic field oscillations during the finish time interval Tchanges with a substantively continuous first derivative to match an end reconfiguration phase and an end reconfiguration phase rate of change at an end of the reconfiguration time interval T.

In step it is determined whether there is another frequency band to be probed or reconfigured during the same reconfiguration time interval. If so control passes back to step to determine whether the next band is to be erased or inverted. If not control passes to step . In some embodiments that reconfigure only one band at one time step is omitted.

In step the one or more electromagnetic chirped fields that combine the reconfiguration signal with start and finish edges are caused to pass into the medium so that the reconfigured frequency bands have the associated amplitude Aat the target site. When the medium is thin or non attenuating the beam can be incident with the value of Ain the reconfiguration band. However when the medium is thick or heavily attenuating the incident beam must be amplified so that after any attenuation during passage to a target site in the medium the amplitude in the reconfiguration band and matching amplitudes in the start and finish bands have the value computed in steps and .

As a result of step the selected one or more frequency bands are reconfigured. In some embodiments control passes to step to receive a readout signal and determine pre erasure spectral features based on the readout signal. In such embodiments the chirp that erases the spectral features also causes a readout signal. The generation and processing of the readout signal is described in Merkel and in U.S. patent Ser. No. 11 179 765 filed Jul. 12 2005 entitled Techniques for Recovering Optical Spectral Features Using a Chirped Optical Field by T. Chang M. Tian W. R. Babbitt and K. Merkel hereinafter Chang the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. In some embodiments step is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment method includes step . In step the process waits for the population to decay to a desired target absorption level. For example to get to a desired relative population rd after erasure the process waits a time Tgiven by Expression 2b.

In some embodiments control passes back to step after step to reprocess the same band at a different time. For example in some embodiments to achieve a relative population of about rd after waiting a time Tgiven by Expression 2b during step control passes back to step to invert the same frequency band.

In this example the spectral grating was burned into the IBT material using interacting fields such as fields . The electromagnetic chirped field includes a constant amplitude reconfiguration signal that is a linear chirp and includes hyperbolic secant start and finish edges. The linear chirp in the reconfiguration band has a constant chirp rate of 1 MHz s and has a Rabi frequency Amax hbar given by Expression 5f of 265 kiloHertz kHz 1 kHz 10cycles per second suitable for erasure 1 .

In practice at optical frequencies the quantity Amax is not measured directly but is derived from measurements of the power P and radius s of the optical beam as given in Expression 8a. max 8a where Z is a proportionality factor that depends on material. The Rabi frequency is observable. For a given material the factor of proportionality between the Rabi frequency and Amax is proportional to Z hbar converted to the units of choice and can be determined by experiment. For Tm YAG the material used in the measurements depicted in and in described below the proportionality factor at corresponding to a wavelength of 793 nm is 570 Hz sqrt Watts m . Thus for this material 570 Hz sqrt Watts m 8b where the Rabi frequency is in Hz. Other materials and transitions may have different values which scale with the dipole moment of the transition of interest. As an example a 100 micron 1 micron 10m diameter optical beam of power 7 milliWatts mW 1 mW 10Watts that is resonant with 793 nm transition in Tm YAG results in a Rabi frequency of 270 kHz.

Including hyperbolic secant start and finish edges the amplitude of the coherent electromagnetic chirped field as a function of time is given by Expression 9a where T T 2T where Tis the half width of the edge intervals.

Before and after erasure a linear chirp with chirp rate of 0.05 MHz s duration of 400 s and Rabi Frequency of 32 kHz was used for readout of spectral features. This Rabi frequency corresponds to a low amplitude chirp about one eighth the amplitude Amax of the erasure chirp that does not reconfigure the atomic state populations.

As in the spectral grating is burned into the IBT material using interacting fields such as fields . The electromagnetic chirped field includes a constant amplitude reconfiguration signal that is a linear chirp and includes hyperbolic secant start and finish edges. The linear chirp in the reconfiguration band has a constant chirp rate of 1 MHz s and has a Rabi frequency Amax hbar given by Expression 6f of 730 kHz suitable for inversion with 0.01.

Including hyperbolic secant start and finish edges the amplitude of the coherent electromagnetic chirped field as a function of time is given by Expression 9a where T T 2T. With the start and finish edges the frequency t is given by Expression 9b. As in for the inversion shown in Twas 5 s and Twas 0.5 s.

Also as described above for before and after inversion a linear chirp with chirp rate of 0.05 MHz s duration of 400 s and Rabi Frequency of 32 kHz was used for readout of spectral features. This Rabi frequency corresponds to a low amplitude chirp about one twentieth the amplitude Amax of the inversion chirp with 0.01 that does not reconfigure the atomic state populations.

Other experiments were carried out to selectively erase and invert single and multiple spectral holes in the IBT material . Similar results were obtained and are not reported here as being cumulative.

Simulations were also carried out to experiment with the effects of different edge functional forms. Among the functional forms demonstrated to perform adequately was a cosine edge function of the form given by Expression 10. cosine 1 2 for 10a cosine 1 2 for 10b In some of these simulations a constant chirp rate is used throughout the electromagnetic chirped field including both start and finish edges.

In the illustrated embodiment both frequency bands are reconfigured with chirps of the same linear chirp rate . Therefore if both are erasures the value of Amax represented by normalized intensify value of 1 is the same for both chirps. If one is erasure and the other is inversion then the value of Amax represented by normalized intensify value of 1 is different for the two chirps. The value corresponding to a normalized intensity value of 1 is greater for the frequency band to be inverted. Similarly if the chirp rates were different for the two bands since Amax depends on the values of Amax corresponding to a normalized intensity value of 1 would be different for the two frequency bands.

Chirped fields used to erase spectral features may themselves interact with subsequent signals intended for reprogramming the medium because of the atomic memory over coherence times. To reduce this effect it may be desirable to use different spatial modes for reprogramming signals. and are block diagrams that illustrates multiple chirps in different spatial modes used to reconfigure a medium according to embodiments and .

In embodiment depicted in two sets of angled beams are used. One set programs the material by imposing spectral content while the other set erases spectral content in different spatial modes. Then the two sets switch with the first set erasing in those spatial modes while the second set programs the different spatial modes. For example at an initial time the first set of beams and interact to program the medium with spectral contents in a first spatial mode. At a later time when processing of that spectral content is completed one or both of the first set of beams and send an erasure chirp into the medium along the first spatial mode. Instead of waiting for the coherence time to reprogram the medium the second set of beams and interact to program the medium with new spectral content in a different second spatial mode. At successively later times the first set and the second set alternate in programming and erasing the medium. In this way a user need not wait for the coherence time before reusing the medium .

In embodiment depicted in multiple single spatial modes and are use for programming. A single channel is used for erasure. As one spatial mode e.g. is erased by mode the other spatial mode is being programmed with new spectral content.

For weak field an exponential decay trace is expected. However for strong field due to the field induced transparency effect the attenuation of the incident field though the propagation is much less than that of weak field. The trace indicates how Amax is attenuated with depth in an absorbing medium for a strong field. is based on measurements made for an inversion chirped electromagnetic field with an incident Rabi frequency of 1 MHz and a chirp rate of 1 MHz s.

For a given Amax to be effective for erasure or inversion it must have that value at the depth in the medium to be erased or inverted. To account for attenuation the incident beam may have to have an Amax and Rabi frequency greater than the Amax desired at the target site.

In this respect inversion of a thick medium is easier. Erasure involves a narrow range of Amax values. For inversion however any amplitude above Amax for inversion is also effective at inversion. Thus to invert all of a thick medium it is only required to select an incident beam Amax that will not be attenuated below the minimum Amax for a selected degree of inversion . As graph shows a 3 increase in Amax is sufficient to invert the entire thickness of a medium with absorption length of 2.

To erase completely such a medium requires an Amax given by Expression 5g over the full thickness of the medium. This can be achieved with a series of erasure chirps. Each erasure chirp is incident at a different amplification over the target Amax for erasure so that each reaches the target Amax for erasure at different depths in the medium. In some embodiments different erasure chirps are incident on the medium in different directions so that erasure can be accomplished from both sides. Simulations have shown the viability of this approach but are not presented here.

The descriptions presented above are for systems with two atomic states. Many atomic systems include additional states that are also occupied. It is expected that erasure and inversion can be accomplished in such systems provided that the time of occupancy in the additional states is limited or controllable.

In some of the IBT material based applications the performances of the material depends on the optical thickness also called total absorption length which is the integration of the absorption coefficient over the physical length of the material Lmat. For a constant absorption coefficient the optical thickness is simply Lmat.

The absorption coefficient of the medium is proportion to absorbers concentration and the population inversion of the absorbers r where is defined as the absorption coefficient for the population at ground state i.e. r 1 in a particular frequency band of interest. For a given medium the absorption coefficient can be adjusted by varying the population inversion level as a function of frequency. The present population reconfiguration techniques can be used for effective absorption control and adjustment. By combining reconfiguration of atomic state populations with population decay the effective absorption can be adjusted in selected spectral bands and locations within the medium within a short time.

These procedures can be used to form transparent windows for spectral filtering and for inversion of an absorbing medium to a gain medium. If the relative population r is initially uniform over the bandwidth of interest either inversion or erasure can be used as the first operation. If there are any spectral features initially then erasure is preferably used as the first operation.

If the frequency bandwidth of interest is comparable with inhomogeneous broadening the inhomogeneous broadening profile affects the overall absorption. For example if the initial absorption profile has a Gaussian shape the adjusted profile also has the Gaussian shape.

In some applications one or more chirped pulses are used for processing or readout of spectral features. For example a chirp that is used for readout can also be used for erasure so that the readout and erasure can be implemented simultaneously. This combined operation has the advantages of reducing the number of operations and shortening the operation time.

The chirped field used in the erasure may also be used for reprogramming the next spatial spectral features. The erasure and reprogramming chirps can be temporally separated or temporal overlapped.

In some applications the chirp bandwidths for inversion readout and erasure are the same and constitute the bandwidth of interest. It is convenient to use a series of chirps with varied amplitude for inversion readout and erasure. For example in most applications the spectral features stored in the material are in the absorptive range and the inversion of these absorptive spectral features results in amplified readout signals. After readout the spectral features in gain regime can then be erased. In some embodiments the series of chirps are repeated to implement the inversion readout erasure operations. In some embodiments the chirps are combined. For example the readout and erasure are combined and implemented using one chirp. As another example the inversion and the readout chirps are combined.

In the erasure of strong spectral features especially spectral gratings with high strength the erasure field will be diffracted by the spectral features. In some applications where high dynamic range is desired this diffraction should be considered. In some embodiments two or more chirps are used each with effective erasure amplitudes. After the first erasure pulse some small spectral features remain due to the secondary effect of diffraction. The second chirp is used for erasing the small spectral features. In most embodiments two erasure steps are enough. In some embodiments more erasures are used. The chirps in this technique are different than the multiple chirps used in thick medium where two or more chirps with different amplitudes are used to account for different attenuations to different spots in the material.

A spatial spectral holographic SSH medium is usually absorptive which reduces the performance of SSH based applications. Using inversion absorptive SSH material can be converted into a gain medium without degradation of the information carried by the existing SSH features. In some SSH based applications a gain medium is preferred over an absorptive one. One such application is to process extremely weak and noisy signals such as the return signals captured by a laser RADAR receiver. A gain medium has several advantages including 1 processing gain instead of loss accompanied by absorptive media 2 compactness by incorporating signal processing and amplification in one element 3 better noise figure compared to systems with separate processing and amplification elements and 4 flexible temporal spectral and spatial configurations for various signal processing requirements such as impulsive and or continuous signals integrated processing through accumulation multiple spectral and or spatial channel operations and collinear and or angled spatial arrangements.

These operations are applicable to both optically thin and thick media. It is more important to achieve high gain for various signal processing applications in thick media. On the other hand quantum computing systems most likely use thin media. The technique can be used to operate on multiple spatial and or spectral channels. Temporal overlapped multiple chirped pulses can be configured to reduce the time to prepare inversion for multiple channel operation.

Light controlled population inversion and transfer between the energy levels of atoms is also a highly demanded technique in the areas of quantum computing and quantum control.

The erasure technique is critical to high speed high density continuous optical storage processing applications based on Optical Coherent Transients OCT and Spectral Hole Burning SHB . The technique erases spatial spectral features by setting the relative population r to zero on the order of the coherence time of the medium which is much faster than population decay time. This erasure technique can be applied to many OCT SHB processing applications such as spectral spectral coherent integrated processor spectral analyzer spectral filtering optical memory and networking using one or more OCT processing routers. In these applications the spatial spectral channels are repetitively swept to achieve high capacity and high speed. Due to the lifetime of the absorptive features in the medium usually the excited state population lifetime the same channel can be reused only after the affects from the previously processed signals vanish. Any residual of the previous processing leads to crosstalk with the following processing.

These techniques can also be applied to selectively erase a strong jammer and preserve the desired signal in RADAR signal processing in other bands.

This technique can be used to switch the processing medium to be temporarily transparent in selected spatial spectral channels. After erasure the medium becomes transparent.

In most applications one crystal is used. This crystal may be used for different purposes or for different processing operations. For example the crystal is used both for laser stabilization and for processing using the stabilized laser as shown in . These two processes may require different absorption coefficients in the crystal. In some applications of signal processing the processing requires different absorption coefficient for different signal strengths or different settings. In some embodiments the effective absorption coefficient is adjusted to satisfy different requirement within one crystal.

Furthermore an adjustable spectral filter has applications such as but not limited to pulse shaping and optical spectral filtering.

The techniques of the present invention can be applied to nuclear magnetic resonance NMR related applications and devices. The chirp in NMR is a chirped magnetic field. In these embodiments the inversion method is used to invert the spectral features of the spin population. The erasure method is used to erase the spectral features of the spin population. The effective spin population inversion is controlled and adjusted using inversion and erasure combined with the decay process. In various embodiments the linear and non linear chirps described above such as the chirp with hyperbolic secant edges are used in NMR related applications and devices.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for presenting images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit IC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. Such signals are examples of carrier waves.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals that are transmitted over transmission media are herein called carrier waves.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital video disk DVD or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Network link typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as application specific integrated circuit may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface which carry information to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves. Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to an infra red signal a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

