---

title: Optimizing call setup latency for geographically dense groups
abstract: A system and method for optimizing call setup latency for geographically dense groups including updating client location information using at least one application server while the client moves from one sector to another to provide a location update; identifying and updating parameters including location update information uniquely identifying a sector from which a client is receiving communication service; and determining at least one geographically dense call group; and choosing at least one designated responder to the at least call group. A client per cluster is selected as a designated responder for that cluster and when the server needs to set up a geographically dense group call, a random number is included corresponding to the designated responder for that group in a call setup message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08068823&OS=08068823&RS=08068823
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08068823
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061213
---
The present invention generally relates towards reducing communication latency. More particularly the present invention relates to optimizing call latency in a group call communication system when participants are geographically co located in a small number of sectors in a Radio Access Network RAN .

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there currently exists a variety of portable personal computing devices including wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones laptops personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices that are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. A wireless device is any device that can communicate with other devices without being physically attached to them. Most wireless devices communicate with each other through radio frequencies.

More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

However these smaller and more powerful personal computing devices are typically severely resource constrained. For example the screen size amount of available memory and file system space amount of input and output capabilities and processing capability may each be limited by the small size of the device. Due to severe resource constraints it is often typically desirable for example to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such remote personal computing devices e.g. client devices .

Some of the personal computing devices utilize an application programming interface API or application programming interfaces APIs sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms that are installed onto their local computer platform and which are used for example to simplify operations of such devices such as by providing generalized calls for device specific resources. An API is a set of routines used by an application program to direct the performance of procedures used by the computer s operating system.

Further some APIs are also known to provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are fully executable on such devices. In addition some of such APIs are known to be operationally located between the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device computing functionality is made available to the software application without requiring the software developer to have the specific computing device system source code. Further some APIs are known to provide mechanisms for secure communications between such personal devices i.e. clients and remote devices i.e. servers using secure cryptographic information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. BREW can operate with a computing device s e.g. a wireless cellular phone operating system and can among other features provide interfaces to hardware features particularly found on personal computing devices. BREW can also provide these interfaces on such personal computing devices at a relatively low cost with respect to demands on device resources and with respect to the price paid by consumers for devices containing the BREW API. Additional features of BREW include its end to end software distribution platform that provides a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and computing device consumers. At least one such currently available end to end software distribution platform includes logic distributed over a server client architecture where the server performs for example billing security and application distribution functionality and the client performs for example application execution security and user interface functionality.

Mobile communication devices e.g. wireless telephones may include a built in input device e.g. a keypad to allow a user to input alpha numeric data. Due to the limited size of such mobile devices the input device is often relatively small which can be difficult and or slow to use for a typical user.

The foregoing description of the related art is merely intended to provide an overview of wireless devices and some of the known uses of APIs and as an introduction to the BREW platform which can be used in various embodiments of the invention. However the invention is not to be construed as being limited to a specific physical configuration implementation operating platform or environment.

In a group call communication system the reduction of latency is an important design goal which directly translates into end user customer satisfaction and utility. Some examples of sources or contributors of latency in a wireless network follow. Channel assignment latency is a delay in assigning and initializing a traffic channel for the user s communication needs. Paging latency is a delay incurred while waiting for the user s mobile device to respond to a page in an appropriate paging channel slot. Over the air transmission is another source of latency as the calls originate travel and are received over a communication infrastructure.

In addition to these types of delays there are delays that may also occur at the group call communication server. Some examples of server delays are user request processing and server component communication.

In a Push to Talk PTT system all of the various types of delays contribute to PTT latency. PTT latency is the delay between the time the user requests a floor by pressing the PTT button and the time the user receives confirmation from a PTT application server that the call has been established and the floor is available. With the exception of paging latency the delays described above also contribute to end to end media latency which is the delay between the time the originator starts speaking and the time when the targets actually hear the originator s speech.

Therefore it is desirable and advantageous to provide a method for reducing latency in a group communication system.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed towards a system and method for optimizing call setup latency for geographically dense groups.

Accordingly one embodiment of the invention can include a method for optimizing call setup latency comprising updating client location information using at least one application server to provide a location update while at least one client moves from one sector to another identifying and updating parameters including location update information uniquely identifying a sector from which the at least one client is receiving communication service determining at least one geographically dense call group choosing at least one designated responder to respond to the at least one call group computing clusters of clients with related parameters and selecting at least one client per cluster as a designated responder for that cluster and when the server needs to set up a geographically dense group call a random number is included corresponding to the designated responder for that group in a call setup message.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a system for optimizing call setup latency comprising logic configured to update client location information using at least one application server to provide a location update while at least one client moves from one sector to another logic configured to identify and update parameters including location update information uniquely identifying a sector from which the at least one client is receiving communication service logic configured to determine at least one geographically dense call group logic configured to choose at least one designated responder to respond to the at least one call group logic configured to compute clusters of clients with related parameters and logic configured to select at least one client per cluster as a designated responder for that cluster and when the server needs to set up a geographically dense group call a random number is included corresponding to the designated responder for that group in a call setup message.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method in a wireless communication system the method comprising updating client location information using at least one application server to provide a location update while at least one client moves from one sector to another identifying and updating parameters including location update information uniquely identifying a sector from which the at least one client is receiving communication service determining at least one geographically dense call group choosing at least one designated responder to respond to the at least one call group computing clusters of clients with related parameters and selecting at least one client per cluster as a designated responder for that cluster and when the server needs to set up a geographically dense group call a random number is included corresponding to the designated responder for that group in a call setup message.

Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action or function.

One or more embodiments of the invention can be used in conjunction with a runtime environment e.g. API executing on a computing device. One such runtime environment API is the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software previously discussed. However one or more embodiments of the invention can be used with other types of runtime environments APIs that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless client computing devices.

The following techniques and mechanisms are directed to implementing methods and components of mobile electronic device to interoperate with an input device via a standard earphone microphone connector. In general the mobile electronic device includes an interface to support data transfer between the mobile electronic device and the input device via the standard earphone microphone connector. This interface can be implemented in hardware and or software. Specific implementations and embodiments of this general concept are described below.

The various embodiments of the invention can thus be realized on any form of client device or wireless devices including a wireless communication portal of having wireless communication capabilities including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers access terminals telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The application download server ADS is shown here on a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . There can be a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the client devices and across the wireless network . There is preferably also at least one stored application database that holds the software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices and . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the configuration illustrated in is merely exemplary. Accordingly embodiments of the invention can include one or more servers that can each perform all the described functions and contain all necessary hardware and software or can contain only selected functionality. Further not all elements e.g. pager ADS database etc. illustrated are necessarily used in all of the different embodiments of the invention that may be implemented.

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates system including the components of the wireless network and the interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote client devices such as wireless client computing devices and to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as ad display server which are used to provide cellular telecommunications services communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In the embodiment shown a server can include the application download server ad dispatch server and the stored application database . The application download server server and the stored application database are illustrated as independent devices in this embodiment. However these devices can also be integrated into one common server or the functionality of one or more may be distributed over multiple devices as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The carrier network controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BTS . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The BTS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the client devices such as cellular telephone by short messaging service SMS UDP datagrams or other over the air OTA methods known in the art.

The client device here a wireless client computing device such as a cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and or commands transmitted form the application download server ad dispatch server and or server . The computer platform can include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as know to those skilled in the art such as magnetic media EPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

The wireless client computing device such as cellular telephone has installed on it or otherwise downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like. For example the cellular telephone may receive one or more software applications downloaded from the application download server . The software applications may be stored on the local database when not in use. The cellular telephone or other wireless computing device may upload resident applications stored on the local database to memory for execution on the API when so desired by the user or invoked by another API.

As used herein client device wireless device or client computing device includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein directed to ads communicated between a client device and a server. The client computing device can be serviced by at least one remote server with respect to at least such ads. Some examples of wireless computing devices which may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention includes cellular telephones or other wireless communication units PDAs laptops paging devices navigation devices e.g. GPS based systems handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the client device and the BTS can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the global system for mobile communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device BTS and MSC . The MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the client device access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing in addition to voice transmission data can be transmitted to the client device via SMS or other OTA methods known in the art.

Public safety and disaster recovery scenarios call for effective and efficient communication between a large set of mobile devices. Latencies incurred during call setups for these large groups are as important a metric as the efficiency in transporting media between these devices.

A group communication system e.g a Push to Talk PTT system typically attempts to provide numerous features to end users including instant access always on and a guaranteed talk permit. Instant access refers to providing a user perception that the group communication system is providing instant and continuous access to the group communication system. Feedback should exist regarding the success or failure of any request made by a user for group communication services. Always on should provide the perception that the group communication system is readily available at all times. It is desirable that a user has constant connectivity to the group communication for as long as the user desires. A guaranteed talk permit guarantees that the user s speech is delivered to at least one or more of the specified targets. The group communication system should also confirm target participation in the group communication call prior to granting the originator permission to talk.

In addition to the large number of participants in these group calls a new challenge arises when the participants are geographically co located in a small number of sectors in the Radio Access Network RAN . The increased probability of collisions on the access channel due to acknowledgment ACK implosion is demonstrated in where a large number of devices attempt to respond at the same time.

The phenomenon shown in causes an increase in the call setup times as the response to the call setup message is delayed. During call setups for geographically dense groups and multicast groups a high number of access probe collisions occur as multiple targets registered in the same sector attempt to respond to the call request at the same time. These collisions cause an increase in call setup times. The application layer scheme proposed herein potentially eliminates the collision probability by having the application server choose designated responders to these large group calls.

After the designated responders are chosen e.g. one per cluster the logical OR ing of the identifiers means that there is no particular order for responding. If a device sees that its identifier was used as a part of the calculation of the bit sequence in the CALL message it will respond immediately. The other devices will hold off their responses.

A geographically dense call can have multiple clusters e.g. one hot spot or cluster per collision domain or BTS . In this embodiment we have suggested that the server select exactly one designated responder from every cluster. The server could select multiple responders per cluster but this would increase the probability of a collision when the responders respond to the message sent by the server. As far as ordering the designated responders for different clusters this is not necessary as the call message is sent out to all these clusters addressed to the union of designated responders .

However as a large group call can span multiple sectors choosing a single responder may not be the most optimal choice due to fault tolerance considerations. A server can choose multiple designated responders without increasing the size of the call setup message.

In one exemplary scenario the server chooses exactly one designated responder per cluster. A cluster is defined as the set of devices that are receiving communication service from a single BTS alternatively the devices are in the same collision domain . Therefore the total number of responders depends on how many dense clusters or hot spots exist for a specified group call.

The server maintains state for the set of predefined groups likely to be geographically dense. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that multicast groups will also benefit from the scheme defined here and operates in a similar manner.

This is because the identifier contained in the server message is responsible for eliminating collisions on response. The method is independent of the addressing scheme e.g. multicast groups with multicast IP addresses and the transport mechanism e.g. unicast or multicast .

The clients routinely update location information with the application server while moving from one sector to the other. The location updates include parameters that help uniquely identify the sector from which the client is receiving CDMA service e.g. System ID SID Network ID NID Carrier identifier pilot PN offset .

The client also includes an n bit random number that it generates. As will be discussed later a larger n results in a lower collision probability. However as the server will include this n bit number in the call request a larger n will result in a larger call announcement message. For example one value of n that may be selected is 16. Some of the following considerations are used in selecting a value of n.

Due to considerations such as processor design efficiency of computation on a PC server device the value of n should be a multiple of 8 bits. The probability that at least 2 devices in a cluster of size k pick the same identifier decays exponentially with the value of n and can be approximated by the expression 1 2 2 2 . For n 8 and a reasonably sized cluster e.g k 20 the probability that 2 devices pick the same ID is 1 e 20 2 2 2 8 0.542166638. For n 16 and the same cluster size the probability is 1 e 20 2 2 2 16 0.00304710593 which is sufficiently small. The client can additionally include pilot strength as an indication of physical proximity with the base station. It should be noted that as the access probe power is normalized to take this into account physical proximity may not be representative of the access probe signal quality.

The server maintains state SID NID random for members of all geographically dense predefined groups. For each group the server computes clusters of clients with the same pair and selects exactly one client per cluster as the designated responder for that cluster.

The pair is used by the server to identify clusters or hot spots . Multiple devices advertising the same are expected to be in a geographical vicinity or proximity and hence they can be assumed to be in the same cluster. After having identified these clusters and the designated responders for these clusters the server uses the random numbers advertised by the designated responders in the OR ing calculation.

The server then computes the logical OR of the random numbers corresponding to the designated responders of m largest clusters. The following illustration is provided as an example.

The server deduces that is a hotspot and chooses the designated responder to be device number 6. Also for reliability the devices advertising different pairs are included in the OR ing operation. And the final identifier is 6553 from device 2 7722 from device 3 43456 from device 6 0001100110011001 OR 0001111000101010 OR 1010100111000000 1011111111111011 49147 decimal When device 2 gets this identifier 49147 in the message it does the computation 6553 AND 49147 which yields 6553 so it goes ahead and responds. However from all the devices in the cluster only device 6 gets this right. 43456 AND 49147 43456 For device 9 34236 AND 49147 34232 which is not the same as 34236 and so it does not respond.

A large cluster implies that there are a large number of Access Terminals ATs that are members of a single geographically dense group reside in the same sector collision domain . That is S Sis close to unity.

By handpicking the designated responders the server has already minimized the probability that the access probes of the access terminals that belong to Scollide with each other.

The collisions that are now of concern to us are the ones between the members of S. This probability grows as Sgrows and is smaller when Sis small. This suggests that collision random probabilities will be small if Sis small.

The value of m should be small. The situation where m 1 means that only one designated responder is chosen from a set of clusters and if this device happens to be near a cell edge the server message destined to the device might have to be retransmitted multiple times thereby incurring delay. The value of m is flexible and if there is a fair amount of certainty that the message will reach the set of m responders based on pilot strength or other estimates for example m can be made smaller. This value can be optimized based on the carrier policy and is subjective. In order to make this step less computationally expensive the selection may be random or based on the pilot strength measurement or some other heuristic.

When the server needs to set up a geographically dense group call it includes the random number corresponding to the designated responder for that group in the call setup announcement message.

The random number is used by the device to present a unique numerical value to the server based on which the server calculates an identifier which is used by the device to identify whether or not it should respond. The previous example regarding sent by different devices is directed towards this concept.

When the targets receive the call setup message they compute the logical AND operation on the number included in the announcement message and the random number the client generated during the registration process. If the following expression is true the client goes ahead and responds to the announcement without any extra delay at the application layer.

If the above condition is not met the client waits for a deterministic amount of time equal to the transmission time of an access probe containing the response to the announcement. Doing this results in a significant reduction in the number of access collisions during group call setups.

The arrangement of the logic elements is merely for the convenience of illustration and should not be construed as limiting embodiments of the invention. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the functionality of the logic elements described herein may be integrated into one element or distributed as desired among various hardware and software elements.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that software or firmware or any combination thereof may also be used to implement the present invention.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there is no particular order of performing and executing the method functional blocks intended or implied in the preceding description. The foregoing methods discussed above can be used by themselves or in any combination thereof to achieve the same objective.

In further embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing methods can be implemented by the execution of a program embodied on a computer readable medium such as the memory of a computer platform. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM accessible by or residing within the client device and or server. Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as direct access storage device DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only media e.g. ROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to those embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The activities or steps of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described in the singular the plural is contemplated unless the limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

