---

title: Apparatus and methods for geographic position approximation of an event occurring on a wireless device
abstract: Apparatus and methods may approximate a location of an event occurring on a wireless device based upon at least one of a first set of location fix information corresponding to a first set of location fix information corresponding to a first position fix of the wireless device prior to the event and a second set of location fix information corresponding to a second position fix of the wireless device after the event. An event positioning determination module may calculate an approximate geographic location of the wireless device at the time of the event based upon a predetermined relationship between the event and at least one of the first and second set of location fix information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606299&OS=08606299&RS=08606299
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08606299
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060628
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 757 743 entitled Methods and Apparatus for GPS Approximation of an Event for a Wireless Device filed Jan. 9 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This invention is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 139 301 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Associating a Geographical Position with an Event Occurring on a Wireless Device filed May 27 2005 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosed aspects relate to wireless devices and wireless communication networks and more particularly to apparatus and methods for determining an approximate geographical position corresponding to an event associated with a wireless device on a wireless network.

Many wireless communications devices such as mobile phones pagers handheld computers etc. have the ability to determine the location parameters associated with the geographical position of a wireless device on the surface of the earth. The location parameters may include the position and speed coordinates for the wireless device. The wireless device may include a geographical position location system in the form of hardware software and or firmware and other associated parameters.

For example one wireless device geographical position location system receives and analyzes location parameters derived from the Global Positioning System GPS a radio navigation system developed and operated by the U.S. Defense Department that includes a series of 24 constellation satellites orbiting the earth at a distance of approximately 20 000 kilometers. The GPS position location parameters permit wireless device processors to determine their respective three dimensional positions and velocities using very precise location parameters and timing signals received from the satellites.

Determination of wireless device geographical position location is not limited to GPS. For example wireless devices may employ a type of Assisted GPS where the GPS position location parameters are combined with additional information related to the wireless network such as position information from wireless network base stations to increase the accuracy of the position location information. The additional information is particularly important in urban areas where there may be attenuation blocking and multipath fading of the GPS signal.

Unfortunately there are other problems associated with the use of GPS and other position location information by the wireless device that have not been addressed. Each time a wireless device requests and retrieves position location information the request and retrieval processing consumes a relatively large amount of wireless device power. Further if the wireless device does not support simultaneous voice and data calls then the device will not be able to get a location position during a voice call or make a voice call during retrieval of a location position.

Furthermore the period of time from when the wireless device makes a requests for position location information to when the wireless device receives the position location information may be significant depending on such factors as the relative position of the wireless device to the location of the satellite the speed at which the wireless device is traveling the performance of the position location processing system of the wireless device the type of position location system employed for example GPS Assisted GPS or other position location system and the performance characteristics of the wireless device antenna. Such parameters may exacerbate the ability of the wireless device to accurately determine the geographical position location of the wireless device without draining wireless device power sources.

The foregoing limitations are particularly troubling when it is desired to determine the position of the wireless device upon the occurrence of wireless device operational events such as a call drop event on a cellular telephone.

In one aspect a method operable for approximating a geographic location corresponding to an event occurring on a wireless device may comprise obtaining a time of the event and at least one of a first set of location fix information corresponding to a first geographic position of the wireless device prior to the time of the event and a second set of location fix information corresponding to a second geographic position of the wireless device subsequent to the time of the event. The at least one set of location fix information may include a time horizontal location information and horizontal velocity information. Furthermore the method may include calculating a latitude and a longitude of the event based upon at least one predetermined relationship between the event and the at least one set of the location fix information.

A further aspect includes machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the operations listed above.

In another aspect an apparatus for estimating a geographic location corresponding to an event occurring on a wireless device comprises a plurality of means for carrying out the operations listed above.

Another aspect of an apparatus for approximating a geographic location corresponding to an event occurring on a wireless device comprises an event position determination module operable to obtain a time of the event and at least one of a first set of location fix information corresponding to a first geographic position of the wireless device prior to the time of the event and a second set of location fix information corresponding to a second geographic position of the wireless device subsequent to the time of the event. In this aspect at least one of the first set of location fix information and the second set of location fix information includes a time horizontal location information and horizontal velocity information. Further the event position determination module is operable to determine an approximate geographic location of the wireless device at the time of the event based on at least one predetermined relationship between the event and the at least one set of location fix information.

In other aspects a method for tracking information relating to an event occurring on the wireless device comprises detecting an occurrence of an event on the wireless device wherein the event is defined by an event tracking configuration. The method further includes storing event information relating to the detected occurrence of the defined event. Also the method includes generating a position determination request based on the detected occurrence of the defined event. Additionally the method includes storing a first set of location fix information prior to the occurrence of the defined event and a second set of location fix information subsequent to the occurrence of the defined event wherein the second set of location fix information is based on the position determination request. Further at least one of the location fix information comprises a geographic location and a horizontal velocity of the wireless device operable to be utilized in a predetermined relationship with the event information to determine an approximate geographic location of the wireless device upon the detected occurrence of the defined event

Another aspect includes at least one processor configured to perform the above actions on a wireless device.

A further aspect includes machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the operations listed above on a wireless device.

In another aspect a wireless device for tracking information relating to an event occurring on the wireless device comprises a plurality of means for carrying out the operations listed above.

In still another aspect a wireless device comprises a computer platform comprising a plurality of event data relating to an operation of the wireless device. The wireless device further comprises an event tracking module in communication with the computer platform and defining one of the plurality of events to track. The event tracking module further comprising event tracking logic operable to initiate storage of event information and further operable to generate a position determination request upon detecting the defined one of the plurality of events. The wireless device also includes a memory operable to store the event information and location fix information wherein the location fix information comprises a first set of location fix information prior to the occurrence of the defined event and a second set of location fix information subsequent to the occurrence of the defined event. Further at least one of the first and second set of location fix information comprises geographic location information and horizontal velocity information operable based on a predetermined relationship with the event information for determining an approximate geographic location of the wireless device upon the occurrence of the defined event.

Additional aspects and advantages are set forth in part in the description which follows and in part are obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosed aspects. The aspects and advantages of disclosed herein may also be realized and attained by the means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

In general apparatus and methods are disclosed to determine an approximation of the location of a wireless device at the time of a detected event occurring on the wireless device. These apparatus and methods determine the approximate device location based on one and or some combination of a first set of fix information obtained at a time prior to the time of the event and a second set of information obtained subsequent to the time of the event. Generally these apparatus and methods take into account the time difference between the event and the respective fix information and utilize this time difference in combination with speed or velocity information in the respective fix information to estimate the approximate event location.

In some aspects the wireless device detects an event based on a predetermined event tracking configuration. Further the wireless device may include logic operable to trigger the determination and or retrieval of at least one of pre event and post event location fix information. Additionally in some aspects the wireless device may further include logic operable to forward the respective fix information to another device such as a user manager for determining a location of the detected event.

The user manager server may include an event position determination module to determine a geographic position to associate with the detected event based on the received geographic fix information from the wireless device.

Before even considering using of the fix information the user manager server may apply predetermined rules to the fix information to determine whether or not the respective fix information can be considered a valid point of reference on which to base an approximation. For example these predetermined rules may include a time threshold and or a distance threshold with respect to the time and or distance between the respective fix and the event.

Additionally the user manager server may analyze the first and second sets of geographic fix information to determine the type of information they contain. For example fix information may include relevant information for use in approximating the location of detected event. For example relevant fix information may include but is not limited to information such as time information horizontal information i.e. longitude and latitude information altitude information speed information and bearing information.

A best approximation of the location of the detected event may be made when all possible relevant information is available and can be considered. In cases where less than all relevant information is available in either one or both sets of fix information the user manager server may apply predetermined rules which dictate which information to use and not use and or how to weigh certain information versus other information. For example if both sets of fix information are considered valid and include all relevant data then an approximation is made based on an algorithm that applies a predetermined weighting to the respective relevant data. In another example if one or the other set of fix information is missing some predetermined relevant data then the approximation algorithm may calculate the approximate location using the fix having all or the greatest amount of the relevant information.

Thus as a result the approximate location i.e. longitude latitude and or altitude coordinates of the wireless device at the time of the detected event is determined based on a predetermined algorithm that takes into account the best available information.

Table 1 below lists the definitions of acronyms used herein to facilitate the understanding of the aspects discussed herein.

Referring to some aspects of a system may include any mobile or portable communications device operable within a wireless network area to communicate wirelessly with wireless network . Such mobile or portable communications devices may include cellular telephone personal digital assistant two way text pager a laptop computer a tablet computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network. Non limiting wireless devices and are hereafter collectively referred to as wireless device .

Wireless device may be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network e.g. a remote sensor a diagnostic tool a data relay etc. Accordingly the apparatus and methods described herein may be applied to any form of wireless communications device or module including a wireless communication portal a wireless modem PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Wireless device may include a local computer platform operable to permit the wireless device to transmit data across wireless network receive data from wireless network receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from remote server or from another computer device connected to wireless network .

Computer platform may comprise an event tracking module and a location module collocated with the respective wireless device or remotely accessible by the wireless device . The event tracking module is operable upon detection of a predetermined wireless device based event to gather event information associated with the configuration and to initiate the collection of device location information from location module to associate with the detected event. For example in one aspect the wireless device detects an event based on a predetermined event tracking configuration wherein the event tracking configuration may be configured to gather information about network and or device performance by tracking predetermined events such as events defined in a communication protocol and or predetermined combinations and or sequences of data associated with the operation of the wireless device. For example a predetermined event may include a communications related event such as a dropped call an access failure a handover an idle failure an out of service event an in service event etc. In other aspects for example an event may comprise a detectable non communications related occurrence in an application running on the wireless device.

Location module in some aspects may be operable to retrieve location fix information comprising a plurality of location related parameters from a position determination entity in communication with wireless network . In other aspects location module may be operable to locally generate location fix information based on communications with entity over network . Additionally fix information may be received based upon configured periodic retrievals of location fix information performed by location module and or by location fix information dictated by other modules or applications operating on the respective wireless device.

Modules and may include one or any combination of software hardware and firmware and may further include any executable instructions operable by one or more processors resident on or remote from the wireless device . For example the wireless device may include logic that triggers location module to retrieve post event location fix information upon detection of the configured event.

Furthermore each wireless device may store event information and location fix information in a data log transferable to and or retrievable by a remote server located across wireless network . It should be noted that data log may comprise a plurality of location fix information pertaining to multiple geographic fixes received prior to and or subsequent to one or more event detected by event tracking module .

In one aspect a remote server may receive the data log from the wireless device . The remote server may include an event position determination module which may be operable to approximate a location of the detected event based on the recorded fix information . For example remote server may be operable to calculate a longitude latitude and or an altitude of the detected event. In another aspect event position determination module may be resident on the wireless device and the wireless device may be operable to approximate a location of a detected event locally as an alternative to processing the information on the remote server . In any case event position determination module may be further operable to generate and store the approximated event location and optionally other event related information in an event record .

Thus system provides apparatus and methods for approximating a geographical position corresponding to an event occurring on a wireless device. These apparatus and methods include receiving a time of the event and at least one of a first set of location fix information corresponding to a first geographic position of the wireless device prior to the time of the event and a second set of location fix information corresponding to a second geographic position of the wireless device subsequent to the time of the event. In this case at least one set of the location fix information includes a timestamp horizontal location information and horizontal velocity information. Further these apparatus and methods include approximating a latitude and a longitude of the event based upon at least one predetermined relationship between the event and at least one of the first set of location fix information and the second set of location fix information. In this case the predetermined relationship attempts to approximate the event location using the best available information from one and or both sets of fix information thereby providing a best approximation based on the available information.

Referring to wireless network includes in addition to all network components and all connected devices that form the network any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between a wireless device and any other device connected to wireless network . Wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a BLUETOOTH technology network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network an ultra wide band UWB network a ZIGBEE protocol network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network. Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access wideband code division multiple access universal mobile telecommunications system advanced mobile phone service time division multiple access frequency division multiple access global system for mobile communication analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Network interface may be any mechanism that allows remote server to communicate with wireless network and or position determination entity . For example network interface may include a local area network that connects remote server and or position determination entity through an Internet Service Provider to the Internet and in turn to wireless network .

Referring to in one non limiting aspect of the system a cellular telephone network may include a plurality of cellular telephones a network interface and a server environment .

As illustrated wireless network area may include a plurality of cellular telephones a wireless network multiple base stations BTS and a mobile switching center MSC .

MSC may be connected to carrier network through either a wired or wireline connection network . For example network may comprise a data services network a switched voice services network often referred to as POTS plain old telephone service and or a combination of both including for example an Internet portion of a network for data information transfer and a POTS portion of a network for voice information transfer.

MSC may also be connected to the multiple BTSs by another network operable to carry data and or switched voice information. For example network may comprise a data network a voice network and or a combination of both including for example an Internet portion of a network for data transfer and a POTS portion of a network for voice information transfer.

Each BTS may be wirelessly connected to a cellular telephone in wireless network area . For example BTS may ultimately broadcast messages wirelessly to cellular telephones or receive messages wirelessly from cellular telephones via POTS switched voice service data transfer services e.g. short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Still referring to network interface is shown to include carrier network data link and local area network LAN . The features and functions associated with data link and LAN are described below with reference to server environment .

Carrier network is any regional national or international network offering switched voice communication and or data communication services. As such carrier network may include switched voice or data service provider communications facilities and lines including data and or switched voice information or any combination of both including for example an Internet portion of a network for data transfer and a POTS portion of a network for voice information transfer. In some aspects carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to or received from a MSC .

Remote server in communication with data repository over LAN network is operable to store data i.e. data logs gathered from the remote wireless devices . Further data management server in communication with remote server may provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. Network including remote server data repository and data management server may further comprise any other network components needed to provide cellular telecommunication services.

Referring to each of the wireless device operating within system may include a computer platform operable to enable the detection of a predetermined event and the collection of fix information. For example in some aspects computer platform may include memory application programming interface API and a processing engine . In the disclosed aspects each of the aforementioned components may be resident on or remotely accessible by the wireless device .

Processing engine may comprise an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device operable to perform one or more processing functions for the respective wireless device including executing an API layer that interfaces with a module e.g. event tracking module and location module resident on or remotely accessible from wireless device to perform a given function. The foregoing is performed through API software extensions as described below. Furthermore processing engine may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of the wireless device and the operability of the respective device on wireless network such as initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices.

For example in one aspect of a cellular telephone processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager BLUETOOTH system BLUETOOTH LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc.

For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components which receive data reads and data writes from application programming interfaces APIs installed onto the local computer platform . APIs allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone and control certain functionality on the device including event tracking module and location module .

API may comprise a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. An exemplary runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices. API may include a class of software extensions that allow the resident version or remotely accessible version of a module to be processed by processing engine . These software class extensions may communicate with processing subsystems on the wireless device and may allow both data reads and commands. For example the software extension may send commands on behalf of the applications that invoke it. The module may then forward the responses of the subsystems across wireless network area to remote server . Each resident application or module on wireless device may create an instance of the new software extension to communicate. with the subsystems independent of the other applications or modules.

Memory may be any type of memory including read only memory ROM random access memory RAM EPROM EEPROM flash memory cells secondary or tertiary storage devices such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk whether resident on computer platform or remotely accessible from computer platform .

Computer platform may also include a data repository that can store the software applications files and or data not actively used in memory such as the software applications or data downloaded from remote server . The data repository may include one or more flash memory cells or may include a secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Additionally the data repository may host a local copy of event tracking module and location module .

Additionally computer platform may further include a communication module operable to send and or receive signals and or information to and or from components within the respective wireless device and between the wireless device and an external device. For example communication module may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware executable instructions and data to enable the transfer of communications related signals and information. For instance communication module include one or any combination of input and or output ports transmit and receive chain components transceivers antenna etc.

In some aspects memory may comprise event tracking module including logic operable to carry out operations based on an event tracking configuration . For example event tracking module may be operable to receive event tracking configuration from another device such a remote server . Event tracking configuration may include but is not limited to one or any combination of parameters operable to define one or any combination of what predetermined event to monitor when to perform the monitoring how often to collect and or store the monitored data and when and or to whom to provide access to and or to transmit the collected data. For instance event tracking module may be executable by communications processing engine through API to carry out these operations.

Additionally predetermined event may include but is not limited to an occurrence on the respective wireless device of an event which may be one a combination and or a sequence of events and or data specifically defined by configuration . Further predetermined event may occur in another application executing on the wireless device may be specifically defined by a communications protocol utilized by the wireless device and may be one and or a combination of predetermined events predetermined data and or predetermined sequences or sets of data and or events as defined by configuration . Predetermined event may be detectable in processing data within processing engine and or processing subsystems within over the air OTA messages received and or transmitted by communication module and within registers logs electronic filing systems etc. located on the wireless device.

Upon detection of event as defined by event tracking configuration event tracking logic may cause event information to be stored in data log based on configuration . In some aspects for example event information includes but is not limited to an event identifier and an event time . Event identifier may include but is not limited to a description indicator and or representation of the configured event. Event time defines the time of occurrence of the event such as may be defined by a timestamp Ets from an internal or external clock or other timekeeping component in communication with the wireless device. Further upon detection of event event tracking logic may trigger a position determination request to be sent to location module in order to gather geographic position information to associate with the detected event.

Location module may comprise location retrieval logic operable to allow location module to receive the position determination request and subsequently generate a location fix request through API to a designated processing subsystem component such as a position service PS component . Additionally location retrieval logic is executable to initiate storage of the resulting location fix information in data log .

In some aspects PS component when executed by processing engine may retrieve location fix information from an external source such as position determination entity . The aforementioned location fix request received by PS component may for example be generated upon powering up of the wireless device upon initiating execution of a given application or module upon predetermined time intervals upon other specific requests from other applications or modules and or upon a synchronized time basis etc. In the disclosed aspects PS component is one example of a component used in coordination with or in relation to the components of location module .

In other aspects or in addition location module and or position determination entity may further comprise in whole or in part a geographic information system GIS such as a tool used to gather transform manipulate analyze and produce information related to the surface of the earth. Such a GIS can be as complex as a whole system using dedicated databases and workstations hooked up to a network or as simple as off the shelf desktop software. One example of such a system may include the QPoint Positioning Software and gpsOne hybrid Assisted GPS wireless location technology available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif.

In some aspects such a GIS may include a global positioning system GPS such as a satellite navigational system formed by satellites orbiting the earth and their corresponding receivers on the earth. The GPS satellites continuously transmit digital radio signals that contain data on the satellites location and the exact time to the earth bound receiver. The satellites are equipped with atomic clocks that are precise for example to within a billionth of a second. Based on this information the receivers know how long it takes for the signal to reach the receiver on earth. As each signal travels at the speed of light the longer it takes the receiver to get the signal the farther away the satellite is located. By knowing how far away a satellite is the receiver knows that it is located somewhere on the surface of an imaginary sphere centered at the satellite. By using three satellites GPS can calculate the longitude and latitude of the receiver based on where the three spheres intersect. By using four satellites GPS can also determine altitude. In addition to transmitting location parameters associated with the location of the wireless devices the GPS satellites may also transmit speed parameters associated with the speed of the wireless devices.

In other aspects such a GIS may include in whole or part a network based positioning system whereby location module PS component and or some other remote position determination entity determine the geographical position of the wireless devices based at least in part on network communications. For instance communication signals may be exchanged between the respective wireless device and network components of wireless network area . These communication signals include timing information that enables location module PS component and or some other remote position determination entity to compute a relative position and hence a geographic position of the wireless device with respect to a known position. For example such communications signals may include the signals periodically exchanged between wireless device and BTS . Such a network based system may also be utilized in combination with a GPS based system.

Referring to data log may be operable to store a plurality of location fix information . Depending upon the technical capabilities of the position determination entity the location fix information may comprise one or any combination of geographic position information such as a latitude coordinate a longitude coordinate an altitude coordinate and a current bearing horizontal and or vertical of the located device. In addition the location fix information may include a time stamp such as may be supplied by the position determination entry indicating a time associated with the location fix information . In other aspects the time stamp included within location fix information may be the time of receipt of the geographic position information. Furthermore the position determination entity may be operable to provide one or both of the horizontal and vertical velocity at which the device was traveling at the time of position determination.

For example location fix information may include a first set of location fix information pertaining to a first geographic fix G received prior to the time of event and or a second set of location fix information pertaining to a second geographic fix G received after the time of event . Thus depending on the given scenario first geographic fix G and second geographic fix G may represent or may be geographically spaced apart from event location L .

For instance location fix information for geographic position G may include one or any combination of a latitude coordinate Glat a longitude coordinate Glon an altitude Galt a bearing component G a timestamp Gts of a time of the fix which in this case is a time prior to the event time and a location fix speed indicating the speed of the wireless device which may have a horizontal velocity component Ghv and or a vertical velocity component Gvv .

Similarly for example location fix information for geographic fix G may include one or any combination of a latitude coordinate Glat a longitude coordinate Glon an altitude Galt a bearing component G a timestamp Gts of a time of the fix which in this case is subsequent to event time and a location fix speed indicating a speed of the wireless device at the time of the fix which may include a horizontal velocity component Ghv and or a vertical velocity component Gvv .

Additionally event tracking module may be operable to initiate the analysis of data log such as by initiating the transfer of data log to another device and or by allowing another device to remotely access data log . For example in some aspects event tracking module in combination with communication module are operable to forward data log to another device such as remote server based on configuration .

Referring to remote server is operable to receive data log from the respective wireless device in order to approximate a geographic position L that can be associated with a detected event . The resulting approximate geographic location L may be stored in event record and may be presented in any format such as in a table in a graphic in an audio file etc. that enables a user of system to utilize the associated event and approximated location .

Furthermore in one or more aspects remote server or plurality of servers may transmit software agents or applications including event tracking module and or location module to wireless device such that the wireless device return data from their resident applications and subsystems.

Further there can be separate servers or computer devices associated with remote server that work in concert to provide data in usable formats and or a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless device and remote server .

Remote server may comprise a processing engine that may be any combination of processors including an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a chipset a processor a microprocessor a logic circuit and any other data processing device. Processing engine performs one or more processing functions for remote server . Accordingly processing engine may execute a module resident on or remotely assessable by remote server to perform a given function.

Remote server may further include a memory for storing data and or executable instructions etc. Memory may include but is not limited to one or any combination of a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM an EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory cell a secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk whether resident on remote server or remotely accessible from remote server .

Additionally remote server may further include a communication module operable to send and or receive signals and or information to and or from components within the respective wireless device and between the wireless device and an external device. For example communication module may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware executable instructions and data to enable the transfer of communications related signals and information. For instance communication module may include one or any combination of input and or output ports transmit and receive chain components transceivers antenna etc. Further for example user commands transmitted via communication module over a standard HTTP an FTP or some other data transfer protocol to the respective wireless device may by action of processing engine be invoked to execute event position determination module to provide access to and processing of data log to generate event record . Alternatively the wireless device may forward data log to the remote server via communication module based upon parameters within the configuration .

Additionally remote server may further include a user interface to allow communication with a user of the remote server . In the disclosed aspects access to processing of and updating of any of the components of remote server whether the components are resident on remote server or remotely accessible by remote server may be performed by a user in operation of user interface or any combination of software hardware firmware and executable instructions operable by one or more processors through either a direct or remote connection from any of a wireless device remote server or any other network component. For example user interface may comprise one or more input mechanism and or one or more output mechanisms.

In some aspects memory of remote server may include one or more of the data logs which may comprise one or more sets of location fix information and event information from one or more wireless devices. In some aspects for example remote server receives data log via communication module such as from across wireless network from a wireless devices based on an execution of event tracking configuration on the wireless device.

Memory may also include event position determination module which may be operable to collect and validate the collected location fix information to approximate a location of an event and to generate and store event record detailing the approximate location and or the corresponding detected event relate information. In some aspects a version of event position determination module may be downloaded by remote server to each wireless device so that each respective device may locally generate an event record that may provide a ready view of approximated geographic location and or event information in any form such as tables maps graphics views plain text interactive programs or web pages or any other display or presentation of the data. Further event record may include any form of output that represents a position related characteristic or parameter as well as any other related data associated with the event information from data log of one or more respective wireless devices. In still other aspects event position determination module may be loaded onto the respective wireless device during the initial assembly process or via serial connections during a configuration process.

Event position determination module may be operable to pull the log from a wireless device based on commands from a user or the logs may be pushed from wireless device at predetermined times or upon reaching predetermined memory data storage levels for assisting in determining approximate location based on geographic fix information.

Referring to in some aspects event position determination module may include event position determination logic executable by processing engine to manage and perform the functionality of module . Event position determination module may further include one or any combination of software hardware firmware and generally any executable instructions operable by one or more processors resident on or remote from remote server . Event position determination logic may include one or a plurality of predetermined relationships to analyze location fix information and generate an approximate geographic location of a detected event .

In some aspects event position determination module may include a location fix validity module operable to validate the location fix information stored within data log . Location fix validity module may include location fix validity logic operable to validate a given set of location fix information such as location fix information for G and or location fix information for G prior to determining AL and or AL.

The determined validity associated with any portion of the location fix information may be based on configurable parameters that attempt to measure or gauge the accuracy of determining approximate location from the given portion of the fix information . In some aspects for example location fix validity module may include a time threshold value that may be used to determine whether or not specific location fix information is close enough to the event in a time domain to be used to determine approximate location of the event . In one aspect location fix validity logic may command processing engine to compare time threshold to a fix event time difference to determine if location fix information is valid. In one aspect time difference may be calculated as the amount of time between the event the geographic fix information for example based upon timestamp of the event and a timestamp of the respective geographic fix i.e. Gts or Gts .

In some aspects for example time threshold may correspond to a desired maximum amount of time between the time of the geographic location fix and the time of the event for which the fix is considered to be valid. Time threshold may vary depending on the situation. For instance a first scenario where it is known that the wireless device is moving at a relatively fast speed may have a smaller time threshold than a second scenario where it is known that the wireless device is moving at a relatively slow speed i.e. a speed slower than the first scenario speed.

In other aspects for example location fix validity module may include a distance threshold value that may be used to determine whether or not specific location fix information is close enough to the event in a distance domain to be used to determine an approximate geographic location of the event . The distance threshold value may be used in addition or as an alternative to determining that the time difference is within the time threshold . Distance threshold value may represent a desired maximum distance between the location of the geographic location fix and the location of event for which the geographic location fix is to be considered valid. Distance threshold value may vary depending on the situation. For instance a first scenario where a user of these apparatus and methods desires a very accurate geographic position to associate with the event may have a smaller distance threshold value than a second scenario where the user requires a less accurate geographic position i.e. a position that may be further away from the actual event position when compared to the associated position in the first scenario.

In some aspects location fix validity logic may calculate a distance traveled based on time difference associated with a location fix information and a wireless device horizontal velocity associated with the fix information such as Ghv or Ghv associated respectively with first geographic position G or second geographic position G as retrieved from data log . Further location fix validity logic may be operable to command processing engine to compare distance traveled to distance threshold value to determine if location fix information is valid based upon satisfying distance threshold condition .

It should be noted that time threshold value and distance threshold value either individually or in any combination may be set as default values or they may be configurable by a user of system . Furthermore other aspects may include additional threshold settings that may affect the determined validity of location fix information such as a maximum speed threshold etc.

Further time threshold value and distance threshold value can each vary depending on the scenario being tested the environment associated with the test scenario the type of wireless device the type of wireless network components the type of wireless communications protocol the type of and retrieval speed of the particular service providing the location fix information as well as other subjective factors such as a desired relative accuracy or granularity of the approximated or associated geographic position.

In one non limiting example for instance one test scenario involved call drops by CDMA based cellular telephones in an urban area. In this example hundreds of sets of data were analyzed including the call drop event and the location fix information and it was determined that most of the valid fixes were obtained within 120 seconds of the call drop event and based on a marketing analysis an accuracy of 2000 feet was desired. Further since this test scenario occurred in an urban area close to a highway a maximum speed of 65 miles per hour was expected. Thus in this one example time threshold value was set at 120 seconds distance threshold value was set at 2000 feet and a maximum speed was set at 65 miles hour. It should be stressed however that this is just one non limiting example and that each of these thresholds may vary dramatically depending on the many factors discussed above.

Thus in some aspects based upon horizontal velocity information and time and distance validation by location fix validity module event position determination module may be operable to utilize at least portions of one or both location fix information records and respectively to determine the approximate geographic location L of the detected event .

In some aspects for example event position determination module may include additional modules operable to aid in determining approximate location of detected event . For example event position determination module may include a horizontal position approximation module and a vertical position approximation module operable to determine approximate horizontal and vertical locations respectively of the detected event based on a given set of location fix information associated with the event .

For instance referring additionally to utilizing horizontal position approximation module and vertical position approximation module event position determination logic may be operable to determine a first approximate location AL of the detected event based on the location fix information for G and a second approximate location AL of the detected event based on the location fix information for G. Further in some cases event position determination module may be operable to utilize the first approximate location AL of the detected event or the second approximate location AL of the detected event as approximate event geographic location . Alternatively in other cases event position determination module may be operable determine approximate event geographic location based on the first approximate location AL and or the second approximate location AL of the detected event . Event position determination module may utilize one or both of the above stated cases depending on the validity and relative weighting of data within one and or both sets of fix information and .

Thus although geographic fix G and or G may be separated in both time and space from the detected event it is possible to derive an approximate geographic position L of the event based upon location fix information of Gand or G.

For example referring to an approximate location AL of the detected event L may be determined based upon the first set of location fix information of geographic fix G and a timestamp of the detected event L. In some aspects an altitude ALalt of AL may be determined by calculating a vertical distance Vd traveled by the wireless device between the timestamp Gts see of fix G and the timestamp of the detected event at a vertical velocity Gvv . In other aspects the longitude ALlon and or the latitude ALlat of the approximate location AL of the detected event may be determined by calculating a horizontal distance HD traveled by wireless device based on the horizontal velocity Ghv see the bearing of G and the time difference between the timestamp Gts of fix G and the timestamp of the detected event.

In a similar manner referring to an approximate location AL of the detected event L may be determined based upon the second set of location fix information of geographic fix G and a timestamp of the detected event. In some aspects an altitude ALalt of AL may be determined by calculating a vertical distance Vd traveled by the wireless device between the timestamp Gts see of fix G and the timestamp of the detected event at a vertical velocity Gvv . In other aspects the longitude ALlon and or the latitude ALlat of the approximate location AL of the event L may be determined by calculating a horizontal distance HD traveled by wireless device based on the horizontal velocity Ghv see the bearing of G and the time difference between the timestamp Gts of fix G and the timestamp of the detected event.

In some aspects referring to one or both of AL and AL and or their corresponding location fix information and or may be utilized to determine approximate geographic location L of the detected event . In this case at least one of event position determination module horizontal position approximation module and vertical position approximation module may include logic for taking into account the content validity and or relative weighting of AL and AL and or their corresponding location fix information and or and for then generating the approximate geographic position L of the corresponding detected event . The approximate geographic position L of detected event may include may be derived from and or may allow the derivation of one or any combination of a latitude L lat a longitude L lon and an altitude L alt .

With regard to the content of the location fix information for example a particular set of location fix information such as for G and or for G may be lacking one or more location related parameters. For example a horizontal velocity component such as the horizontal velocity Ghv and or the bearing G may be missing. In another example a vertical velocity component such as the vertical velocity Gvv and or the altitude Galt may be missing. Accordingly in some aspects horizontal position approximation module and vertical position approximation module under control of their own logic and or event position determination logic may each comprise multiple implementations of horizontal and vertical position approximation logic and respectively to generate all or at least a portion of approximate geographic position L depending upon the availability and or determined validity of specific location related parameters.

For example referring to a first implementation HPA may approximate horizontal coordinates i.e. latitude L lat and longitude L lon of an event when both speed and bearing information are available for both geographic fix Gand G. On the other hand referring to a second implementation HPA utilizes speed and bearing data from only one set of location fix information. Both HPA and HPA incorporate predetermined relationships such as trigonometric relationships utilizing vector information that includes a speed parameter Ghv and a bearing parameter G to provide an approximation of the horizontal location of the event.

For example in one non limiting aspect the first horizontal approximation formula HPA of may include calculating at step horizontal distances Hd and Hd traveled from the time Ets of the event to the time of receiving the first and second geographic fix Gand G as follows 

At step longitude and latitude coordinates of first approximate location AL of event based upon the first geographic fix Gare calculated. Non limiting some embodiments may take into account the curvature of the earth according to the formulas arcsin sin cos cos sin cos arctan 2 sin sin cos cos Hd sin Glat sin ALlat mod 0.2 

At step longitude and latitude coordinates ALlon and ALlat respectively of second approximate location AL of the event based upon the second geographic fix G may be calculated in a manner similar to step as follows arcsin sin G cos cos sin cos arctan 2 sin cos cos Hd sin Glat sin ALlat mod 2 

At step the approximate latitude L lat and longitude L lon of the approximate geographic location of the event are calculated. If distances Hdand Hdare equal then the latitude and longitude of the event may be determined using the approximations calculated using the location fix information of the second fix G as follows L Lat ALlat L Lon ALlon

However if the distances Hdand Hdare different the approximate latitude and longitude of the location of the event may be determined using a weighted average of both distances as follows 

The absolute values of the distances illustrated in the equations above are used to take into account the fact that one of the distances may be negative. For example Hdmay be negative because the timestamp Gts of the second geographic fix Gis later than the timestamp Ets of the event .

Further it should be noted that the above weighted average equations have been simplified to ignore the curvature of the earth based on the assumption that the distances will be relatively small. Other equations may be utilized however to take into account the curvature of the earth.

Referring to a second horizontal position approximation HPA may be utilized to approximate the latitude and longitude coordinate of the detected event when only one set of location fix information is available or is determined to be valid for a particular geographic fix G. For example one geographic fix may be ruled invalid because the time difference between the event and the fix exceeds the predetermined time threshold and or the distance traveled is greater than the predetermined distance threshold . In another example horizontal information i.e. horizontal speed and bearing information may not be available for either of geographic fixes Gor G. This second example may occur for example when the wireless device is no longer operable after the event and is incapable of receiving or forwarding location fix information for geographic fix G.

Accordingly at step in a horizontal distance Hd traveled from the time of the event to the time of receiving a geographic fix Gis calculated wherein Gis the geographic fix e.g. Gor G that comprises the horizontal velocity information. This step is similar to that of step for only one of Gand G i.e. G. As such Hd may be calculated as 

Similar to steps or of at step longitude and latitude coordinates AL lon and AL lat respectively of the approximate location AL of the event are calculated according to the formulas arcsin sin cos cos sin cos 2 sin sin cos cos Hd sin Glat sin AL lat mod 2 

At step the latitude and longitude coordinates of the event are assigned to be the approximate latitude AL lat and longitude AL lon calculated above as follows L lat AL lat L lon AL lon

In other aspects when horizontal velocity information is not available an alternate method of determining approximate geographic location of the detected event may comprise comparing the time difference between the event time and the respective location fix information and for example selecting as the approximate geographic location the geographic location of the fix having the smallest time difference. Further details of methods and apparatus for performing such a determination may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 139 301 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Associating a Geographical Position with an Event Occurring on a Wireless Device filed May 27 2005 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Similar to the methods employed for approximating a horizontal position of an event referring to two alternative methods VPA and VPA respectively may be utilized by vertical approximation module for approximating an altitude Lalt of the geographic position L of an event .

For example referring to in some aspects the method of VPA may be based upon a determination by location fix validity module that geographic fixes Gand Gboth contain valid location related parameters. Accordingly altitude and vertical velocity information present in location fix information and may be used to approximate the altitude of event .

At step vertical distances Vdand Vd traveled from the timestamp Ets of the event to the time of receiving the first and the second geographic fix may be calculated as G G 

Vdand Vdmay be a positive or negative distance based upon whether the event occurred before or after the geographic fix.

At step a first approximate altitude ALalt based upon the location fix information for geographic fix G and a second approximate altitude ALalt based upon the location fix information for geographic fix G may then be calculated as 

Similar to either the latitude or longitude calculations of HPA if the absolute value of Vd is equal to the absolute value of Vd in some aspects of method VPA the approximate altitude L alt of the event may be set as L alt ALalt

based upon the assumption that the later geographic fix G is more accurate than the earlier fix Gas it is triggered based upon the detection of the event and may therefore be closer in time and space to the event .

In this aspect in the event that the absolute value of Vdis not equal to the absolute value of Vd the approximate altitude of event may be set to the weighted average of the calculated vertical distance traveled between the time of geographic fix Gand the time of the event and the calculated vertical distance traveled between the time of the event and the time of geographic fix G for example based on the formula 

Furthermore similar to the horizontal location approximation method HPA vertical velocity information may be available or valid for only one geographic fix G. Referring now to in some aspects the vertical position approximation method VPA allows the event altitude L alt to be approximated from altitude Galt and vertical velocity information Gvv available from the single valid location fix Gor G.

The vertical distance Vd traveled from the time of the event to the time Gts of receiving the one location fix Gmay be calculated as 

The altitude of an approximate location of the event based upon the information from the fix Gcontaining altitude and vertical velocity information may be calculated as 

Accordingly because location fix information from only one geographic fix is used the approximate altitude of the event may be set as follows L alt AL alt

In some aspects event position determination logic is operable to select an approximation implementation e.g. HPA HPA VPA and or VPA in a predetermined manner based upon the availably of horizontal velocity information and the availability of vertical velocity information present in the location fix information as well as based on the validity of that data as determined by location fix validity logic .

Non limiting for the purpose of approximating a location of a detected event on a wireless device the event position determination logic is operable to categorize various combinations of location fix information for Gand Ginto cases depending upon the availability of horizontal and vertical velocity information and depending upon those categories an approximation implementation such as HPA HPA VPA VPA and or some other predetermined function for approximating location coordinates may be selected.

For example a Case 1 may be defined wherein the time difference between the event and the location fix time Gts and between the event and the location fix time Gts is within time threshold and horizontal velocity information i.e. speed and bearing is provided in both location fix information records and . A Case 2 may be defined in which the horizontal velocity is available in only one but not both of location fix information record i.e. or . The cases defined above are non limiting. Other cases may exist and may employ alternate methods to approximate the geographic position of a detected event .

Referring to at step the method may include generating an event tracking configuration in order to identify a predetermined event occurring on a wireless device . For example the event tracking configuration may include one or more event tracking parameters entered locally or remotely into remote server by a user. For example the event tracking parameters may identify among other things one or more predetermined events to monitor what information to record relating to a detected event and when and to whom to provide with the recorded information.

Further at step the method may optionally include forwarding the event tracking configuration to a respective wireless device . For example remote server may transmit the configuration across a wireless network to wireless device . These actions may be initiated for example by a technician field service engineer or any other operator of remote server . Alternatively the configuration may be loaded on the wireless device via a wired connection to the wireless device or may be statically loaded at the time of manufacture.

Based upon executing the received event tracking configuration and event tracking logic wireless device is operable to detect the occurrence of a predetermined event and transmit specific information i.e. event information and location fix information associated with the event to another device such as remote server for analysis.

Furthermore the wireless device is configurable to request receive store and transmit location fix information to remote server . For example event tracking module may be operable to generate a request for position information and transmit the request to location module . The location module may via location retrieval logic retrieve location related information from a position determination entity across the network and store the received data as location fix information in wireless memory resident data log .

In some aspects event tracking module and location module are executable by communications processing engine of the respective wireless device to collect event information and location fix information in data log such as based on configuration and the detection of a predetermined event .

At step the method may include configuring validity thresholds to apply to location fix information. For example this action may include setting time and distance threshold values i.e. time threshold value and distance threshold value to be used for validating location fix information. The threshold values may be utilized to determine if the data received is sufficiently reliable so as to be used to approximate the location of a detected event. For example a location fix validity module may comprise a predetermined time threshold value and a predetermined distance threshold value which may be entered into event position determination module by an operator of remote server or may be received from another device either directly connected to remote server or remotely connected via network interface .

Upon being configured to detect an event occurring on the wireless device an event tracking module may upon detecting an event generate a log of the event and transmit the log across network .

Subsequently at step the method may include receiving and storing one or more data logs from one or more wireless devices . For example remote server may receive the data logs for the wireless device to which it forwarded the tracking configuration. Upon receipt of data log the method may continue processing at step in .

Referring now to after receiving the data log at step the method may include determining whether Gand or Goccur within a predetermined time threshold of the detected event . Furthermore in some aspects the method may determine whether Gand or Gcomprise horizontal velocity information i.e. horizontal velocity and bearing information to determine an approximate location for event . In some aspects event position determination logic may first calculate a time difference between the event time ETs and the location fix time in the data log to be used in validating the location related data.

Non limiting the method may test Gprior to testing G. In this case at step the method may include determining whether geographic fix Ghas occurred within the time threshold . For example event position determination logic may compare time difference to time threshold to determine whether Gis valid.

If Gis within time threshold control may pass to step at which point the method may include testing the location fix information for the other geographic fix G. That is event position determination logic may be operable to determine whether Goccurred within time threshold in a similar manner to that performed in regard to G.

If event position determination logic determines that Gis invalid because it occurred outside of time threshold at step the method may test Gfor horizontal velocity information in order to determine whether G by itself may be used to approximate a position of the event .

However if both Gand Goccurred within time threshold the method may continue processing at steps and to test whether neither one or both of Gand Gcomprise horizontal information i.e. horizontal velocity and or bearing information to approximate the location of the event.

If Gcomprises horizontal information at step the method may test Gto determine if both Gand Gcomprise horizontal information.

Alternatively if Gdoes not comprise horizontal information at step the method may determine if Gcomprises horizontal information.

If at step event position determination logic determines that both Gand Gcomprise horizontal velocity and or bearing information i.e. a Case 1 scenario control may pass to step . Alternatively if only one of Gand Gcomprise the required information i.e. a Case 2 scenario control may pass from either step or step to step .

Finally if neither Gnor Gcomprise horizontal velocity information then approximating a location of an event occurring on a wireless device may require an alternate event location method at step including but not limited to methods disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 139 301 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Associating a Geographical Position with an Event Occurring on a Wireless Device filed May 27 2005 previously incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. For example in this scenario a low time threshold method may be utilized wherein the geographic location of the fix information having the minimum time difference with the event time may be used as an approximate location of the detected event. It should be noted however that other approximation methods may be utilized.

Referring back to step in the case that event position determination logic determines that the time between event and the time of geographic fix Gdoes not meet time threshold the time of geographic fix Gmay be tested at step .

If the location fix validity module determines that the time difference associated with the location fix information of geographic fix Gdoes not meet the time threshold then the method ends at step as neither set of fix information contains valid parameters based on the configured thresholds.

Alternatively if the calculated time difference meets the time threshold then the location information of geographic fix Gmay be tested at step to determine whether Gcomprises horizontal velocity and or bearing information.

If the method determines at step that Gdoes not comprise horizontal information then at step the method may compute an event location based on an alternate method that does not require horizontal information. For example such an alternate method may include but is not limited to the previously mentioned low time threshold method disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 139 301 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Associating a Geographical Position with an Event Occurring on a Wireless Device filed May 27 2005 previously incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

If the event position determination logic determines at step that Gdoes comprise horizontal velocity and or bearing information an approximate location of event may be determined based upon the location information for one geographic fix i.e. a Case 2 scenario and control may pass to step .

As discussed above the location related data comprising geographic fixes Gand Gmay be categorized into Case 1 and Case 2 scenarios. illustrates some aspects of a method beginning at step for approximating the location of an event occurring on wireless device wherein location fix information for Gand Gfall under the conditions warranting the Case 1 analysis. As previously disclosed Case 1 includes those scenarios in which both Gand Goccur within a time threshold of the detected event and both sets of location fix information and comprise horizontal information.

At step location fix validity module may be operable to test whether the location of geographic fixes Gand Gare within the distance threshold of the event . In some aspects event position determination logic may determine the horizontal distance traveled i.e. Hdand Hdby multiplying the respective time difference by the respective horizontal velocity i.e. Ghv and Ghv.

Still referring to step event position determination logic is then operable to compare the calculated distances Hdand Hd with distance threshold to determine whether the respective geographic fix i.e. Gand or G was within a predetermined acceptable distance of the detected event .

If both distances Hdand Hd are within distance threshold control may pass to step where Gand Gare then tested by event position determination logic to determine whether they both contain altitude and vertical velocity components i.e. Galt Galt Gvv and Gvv.

If Gand Gboth contain altitude and vertical velocity components then at step the event position determination logic may invoke a method F G G using location fix information and from both Gand Gto approximate the horizontal and vertical location of the event .

As shown in Table 2 below Method F G G uses the HPA formula of to approximate the horizontal position i.e. L lat and L lon of the event and the VPA formula of to approximate the vertical position i.e. L alt of the event. Non limiting the four methods listed in Table 2 are but one of a plurality of possible aspects operable to determine a location of an event of a wireless device based upon scenarios such as Case 1 and Case 2 described above.

As indicated in Table 2 in some cases the approximate location of event may not include an altitude approximation of the event . These cases represent Method F and Method F as indicated on steps and respectively wherein the location related information for data may be valid as per time threshold and distance threshold but may not contain altitude and vertical velocity information.

Referring back to step if at least one of Gand Gis lacking altitude or vertical velocity information then Method F G G may be invoked at step to approximate the latitude and longitude of the event using formula HPA but no vertical location approximation method may be invoked even if vertical information is available from one geographic fix. For example one reason for not including an approximate vertical location in this instance is that it may be inaccurate and inconsistent to base such an approximation on the vertical information of one fix while using the horizontal information of both fixes to approximate the horizontal location.

Referring back to step if only one of geographic fixes Gand Goccur within the distance threshold control may pass to step to test whether an altitude and a vertical velocity component is available for the one geographic fix i.e. G that is within distance threshold of the event.

At step if Gcomprises an altitude component and a vertical velocity component in one aspect event position determination logic may utilize Method F G . Method F uses formula HPA to approximate the longitude and latitude of the event and VPA to approximate the vertical location of the event .

Alternately at step if the method determines that Gdoes not comprise an altitude and a vertical velocity component then the method proceeds to step which utilizes Method F G to approximate the longitude and latitude of the event. Method F G may apply formula HPA to approximate the latitude and longitude of the event . No approximation of the altitude is available due to the lack of altitude and vertical velocity information.

At step event position determination logic and or location fix validity module may be operable to determine if the single geographic fix i.e. G occurring within time threshold and comprising horizontal velocity information occurs within distance threshold .

If Gdoes not occur within distance threshold then an alternate event location method may be applied at step . For example an alternate method may include a method previously disclosed in the previously mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 139 301.

Alternatively if Goccurs within distance threshold at step the event position determination logic may determine whether or not Gcomprises vertical velocity information i.e. altitude and or vertical velocity.

If Gdoes contain vertical velocity information then at step the Method F G may be utilized to approximate latitude and longitude coordinates of an event. For example Method F G applies formula VPA to approximate the corresponding altitude of the event .

If Gdoes not contain vertical velocity information then the Method F G may be applied at step to approximate latitude and longitude of the event. In some aspects Method F utilizes formula HPA for the calculation. Because no vertical velocity information is available in this case then in some aspects no approximation for the altitude is calculated.

Still referring to a second Case 1 example may comprise all the conditions disclosed in the first example except that geographic fix G may comprise only horizontal information i.e. geographic fix G lacks altitude and vertical velocity information. Under these circumstances an approximate location of the detected event may be based upon method F G G as indicated in at step and may not contain vertical location information.

In summary wireless device can have at least one application or agent resident either permanent or temporarily on the computer platform thereof which causes the gathering of event information and corresponding location fix information in order to determine an approximate geographic location of the wireless device at the time of occurrence of the detected event. Further in some aspects wireless device may be operable to effect selective access to and or transmission of data log for that wireless device to another computer device such as remote server for analysis. For example if the wireless device is so embodied data log may be transmitted over an open communication connection from the wireless device to the wireless network such as an open voice or data call. If the wireless device is a cellular telephone and the wireless network is a cellular telecommunication network such as shown in data log can be transmitted through short message service or other wireless communication methods. Alternatively if so embodied the wireless device may perform the analysis locally. In any case an event position determination module may execute predetermined position determination logic to determine the approximate geographic location of the detected event based on the event information and corresponding location fix information . In some aspects the predetermined position determination logic may take into account the content and or validity of all or a portion of the location fix information . Further in some aspects the predetermined position determination logic may determine the approximate geographic location of the detected event based on at least one of one set of the location fix information gathered prior to the time of the event another set of the location fix information gathered subsequent to the time of the event and both sets of location fix information. Additionally in some aspects the predetermined position determination logic may be operable to generate an event report providing a summary and or details relating to the approximate geographic location of the detected event and which may further include all of some portion of one or both of the event information and corresponding location fix information .

It should be noted that while the above described event position determination module utilizes one or more trigonometry based predetermined relationships any other type of mathematical expression may be utilized to determine an approximate geographic location of the detected event based on location fix information . Further depending on the given scenario and the desired level of accuracy such relationships may may not or may in part incorporate the curvature of the earth.

In view of portions of the method being executable on computer platform of a wireless device and executed by processing engine of remote server the method includes a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs a wireless device having a device platform to perform collection storage and transmission acts of the method. Such a program can be executed on any single computer platform or can be executed in a distributed way among several computer platforms. Furthermore the method can be implemented by a program that directs a computer device such as remote server to evaluate the validity of a geographic position in association with an event through gathering and processing data log from the wireless device .

The computer readable medium may be the memory of the computer platform of the wireless device or can be a data repository associated with remote server . Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless device computer platform or remote server such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the method may be implemented for example by operating portion s of the system such as device platform and remote server to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions. Such a sequence may include a plurality of sets of instructions such as sets that correspond to the recited actions and or steps of the disclosed methods. Further the instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of the system. Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD direct access storage device storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID redundant array of independent disks array magnetic tape electronic read only only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM write once read many DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects as defined by the appended claims. Additionally any aspects described herein may be used in combination with any other aspect described herein. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

