---

title: Method and system for generating musical variations directed to particular skill-levels
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to an automated method and system component for generating variations of one or more musical selections directed to particular students or to particular skill-levels into which students may be classified. The method and system component may be included in a wide variety of different music rendering, music display, and music instruction systems. In one embodiment, variations are generated by filtering each layer of a musical selection with respect to a number of common, musical elements, with the filtering chosen to reflect a selected or desired skill-level. In this embodiment, the layers of a musical selection include a melody line, a chord progression, and a bass line, and musical elements include key-signature, rhythm, pitch range, tempo and meter, and technique. Skill-level may be based on a numerically-encoded range of skill-levels, or may include a number of fixed skill-levels, such as beginning, easy, intermediate, and advanced levels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07435891&OS=07435891&RS=07435891
owner: 
number: 07435891
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060803
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 858 821 filed Jun. 1 2004 now abandoned which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 548 927 filed Mar. 1 2004 and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 475 214 filed May 30 2003.

The present invention is related to musical training automated musical training musical arranging and interactive display systems and in particular to musical training musical pedagogy and interactive systems that generate and display variations of musical selections with varying levels of difficulty.

For hundreds of years musical instructors and musical instruction book authors have manually prepared altered versions of musical selections to facilitate instruction of students with varying levels of skill and musical competence and for arranging musical selections for different types and numbers of musical instruments. By altering musical selections music teachers and authors of musical instruction books can tailor well known and musically pleasing pieces to various skill levels of different classes of students as well as to skill levels to which the music teachers and authors of musical instruction books are attempting to elevate a particular class of students. Variations of musical selections featuring a range of complexity levels can provide a useful vehicle for musical instruction that allows a student to experience the pleasure of performing musical pieces without also frustrating the student by demanding greater skill or musical competence than the student can be expected to display at a particular point in time. Such variation groups can also offer a pedagogical benefit. Instruction books typical of the art are usually based on a linear progress model the student learns one piece and moves on to the next selection. In contrast to this the proposed method of generating variation groups featuring a range of complexity levels based on a single composition allow the student to undertake new challenges with consistent and fine control over the nature and extent of those challenges. Because the variation groups are based on the same underlying composition the underlying musical elements are common to all variations and can be carried from one variation to the next to an extent determined by user preference. For example the method allows a user to proceed from a variation with simplified melody and bass to a subsequent variation with identical bass and melody with a small increase in technical challenge.

Until now the generation of variations of musical selections with ranges of difficulties for performance has been largely a tedious manual arbitrary and imperfect process. In general an instructor or musical instruction book author can provide at best one or only a few variations of a particular musical selection and the granularity of skill level addressed by the variations is thus rather large. A musical student is therefore constrained to selecting music from among an often narrow selection of musical pieces at any particular desired skill level. Musical teachers authors of musical instruction books and other musical professionals have recognized the need for a means to generate a range of variations directed to a corresponding range of skill levels for a large number of different musical pieces that is relatively inexpensive and efficiently in time and that provides an ability to customize or tailor variation generation as closely as possible to an individual student or to a particular skill level.

Various embodiments are directed to an automated method and system component for generating variations of one or more musical selections directed to particular students or to particular skill levels into which students may be classified. The method and system component may be included in a wide variety of different music rendering music display and music instruction systems. In one embodiment variations are generated by filtering the individual layers of a musical selection with respect to a number of common musical elements with the filtering chosen to reflect a selected or desired skill level. The layers of a musical selection may include any monophonic or homophonic part such as a melody homophonic chord progression or bass line. The filtering may be applied to the layers individually and the musical elements to which the filters may be applied include key signature rhythm pitch tempo and meter. Skill level may be based on a numerically encoded range of skill levels or may include a number of fixed skill levels such as beginning easy intermediate and advanced levels.

The present patent disclosure defines the primary elements of a composition as pitch and duration. These elements are organized and modified individually or in combinations to produce the following commonly understood musical attributes key signature chromaticism tempo meter note length note speed syncopation. Embodiments disclosed herein directly modify the primary elements of a musical composition in order to control their amount degree rate etc and the corresponding complexity and degree of technical and intellectual challenge they present to the user when combined to form the above described attributes of a musical composition. Attributes of the musical notation of the primary elements of a selected composition may also be controlled as distinct from the elements themselves in order to control the complexity and degree of intellectual challenge they present to the user. In particular various embodiments disclosed herein may control the number of different rhythmic symbols allowed and enharmonic spelling. Finally various embodiments may control certain fundamental technical attributes of a selected composition in order to control the degree of technical challenge they present to the user including for example hand positions.

One particular embodiment employs procedures to 1 determine the relative difficulty of the primary elements of a selected composition 2 adjust those primary elements that exceed the limits of user skill level to conform to skill level 3 remove mark or hide those primary elements that exceed user skill level when adjustment is not possible or desired 4 adjust the musical notation of the primary elements to conform to limits of user skill level and 5 discard or hide the standard notation of primary elements that exceed user skill level when adjustment is not possible or desired. In one embodiment the procedures are as follows 1 a key signature filter determines the best transposition interval to allow the key signature of selected composition to conform to limits of user skill level when the given key signature uses more symbols sharps or flats than permitted by user skill level 2 a rhythmic symbol filter alters the notation of rhythm to conform to the limits of user skill level when the given notation uses more rhythmic symbols 16th 8th etc than permitted by user skill level 3 a note speed filter determines the fastest speed smallest rhythmic sub division at which a user can play at the selected tempo and removes marks or hides notes exceeding that limit 4 a hand position filter ranks the relative performance difficulty of all hand positions required in a selected composition and restricts or adjusts those exceeding the limits of user skill level. Additional filters can control the amount and type of chromaticism the accidental type used in the musical notation the number of unique durations note lengths permitted and the presence and or amount of syncopation.

Embodiments are directed to a method and system component for automated generation of variations of musical selections with varying levels of difficulty or in other words directed to various different levels of performance skill. Although the present invention is described below with respect to a small number of embodiments there are many possible different variations of the present invention.

In the embodiment of a system component is additionally shown. System component is representative of a storage medium that stores software instructions executable by a processor to implement the functionality of the musical system as described below. The storage medium may be any type of storage including for example CD ROM tape devices individual disks optical devices flash memory devices or various types of RAM. It is noted that in alternative embodiments rather than using a personal computer other types of systems may be provided such as a dedicated music processing system. In such systems system component may be implemented in software or hardware or in combinations thereof.

As discussed above it would be desirable in many different situations including during operation of the musical system illustrated in to be able to generate one or more variations of a musical selection directed to an individual user s skill level or to particular skill levels in which users can be generally classified. For example when the system is used for interactive display of a musical selection to allow a user at a particular skill level to perform the displayed music it would be desirable for the user to be able to select generate and display a variation of a musical selection suitable for the user s skill level. As an another example it would be desirable for the user to be able to automatically generate a skill level directed variation of the musical selection for printing including skill level directed variations for each part played by a group of musicians on different instruments.

One embodiment as disclosed herein provides a method and system component to enhance a musical system such as the music system shown on to automatically generate skill level directed variations of selected pieces. In the musical system of for example once a user makes high level selections that define subsequent operation of the musical system a second level selection window may be displayed by system component to provide the user with the ability to generate a variation of a musical selection tailored to a desired skill level for subsequent use in the instruction display or printing operation. shows a second level display window that in the musical system illustrated in allows a user to select parameters that specify a variation of a musical piece directed to a particular skill level.

The second high level display window includes a text display window that displays the title of the musical selection. The second level display window includes a layer selection window that allows the user to select one of a number of different layers of the musical selection. In the described embodiment the layers may include 1 a monophonic melody line 2 a homophonic chord part 3 one or more subsidiary monophonic melody lines and 4 a monophonic bass line. When the user selects a particular musical layer using the layer selection window the musical system displays the skill level with respect to various different elements of the musical selection to which a variation of the selected musical layer should be generated. In the display window shown in the skill level is shown as the position of a skill selection slider button such as skill selection slider button that can be moved vertically within a skill selection range window such as skill selection range window . Initially the skill selection slider buttons may display default skill level values for each element. In the described embodiment the set of musical attributes with respect to which skill level filters can be adjusted by the user includes 1 the tempo 2 the meter 3 the number of rhythmic symbols 4 the fastest rhythmic sub division 5 the presence or absence of syncopation 6 the key signature 7 the degree of chromaticism 8 the number of hand positions required 7 and the relative difficulty of required hand positions. When a user has adjusted the skill level selections for each of the attributes for a particular layer using the layer selection window and the skill selection slider buttons and the user may input a mouse click to an enter button to record the skill level selections for the selected layer. Once the user is satisfied with the skill level selections for all layers the user can input a mouse click to a completion button which collects and stores the skill level selections and invokes a variation generation routine to generate a variation of the indicated musical selection according to the user s skill level selections.

The outer for loop of steps considers in each iteration each layer of the selected composition including the melody line chord progression and bass line in the described embodiment. The melody line corresponds generally to the dominant uppermost line that which is sung by the leading singer in a vocal composition generally in the treble clef staves in standard musical notation. The chord part is generally a collection of chords encoded by multiple note indicating ovals adjoined via a common note stem in the treble and or bass clef staves of standard musical notation. The bass line is normally found in the bass clef staves in standard music notation. Thus each of the layers separately treated in the described embodiment correspond directly to easily identified sets of notes rests and other standard musical notation symbols representative of the primary elements pitch and duration for the selected composition. In each iteration of the inner for loop of steps each musical element is separately considered. In step an appropriate filter or filters based on the user specified and stored skill level parameters is chosen for the element and in step the selected filter or filters is applied to the current state of the musical selection in order to translate the musical selection with respect to the currently considered musical element and currently considered musical layer to correspond to the user specified and stored skill level parameters. If application of the filter or filters in step results in additional changes to the musical selection as detected in step then the variable changes is set to TRUE in step . Conditional steps control whether or not additional iterations of the next for loops and encompassing while loop are carried out. Thus the routine generation variation iteratively applies filters to a musical selection until either no further changes are made to the selection or until a maximum number of iterations are executed so that the resulting variations of the musical selection correspond to selected and stored skill level parameters. An iterative approach allows the musical selection to be independently modified with respect to each layer and attribute.

Key signature filtering may involve transposing a selected piece of music from an original key signature to a new simpler key signature. A selected musical piece is associated with an original key signature. The key signature is determined by the number and positions of sharp symbols and flat symbols placed onto lines and spaces of a musical staff directly following the initial clef symbol at the beginning of the musical notation for a selected composition. For a given key signature the sharp or flat symbols indicate semi tone modifications to selected note names and their associated pitch in all octaves from the group of seven note names. For example shows the key signature for G major E minor. The sharp symbol on the uppermost line of the musical staff representing the pitch F indicates that the pitch F in all octaves should be raised one semi tone played as F . A piece of music can be changed by transposition from one key signature to another key signature by raising or lowering each note in a musical selection by a fixed number of semi tones. For example raising each note by a semi tone changes the key signature of F major to G major reducing the six sharp symbols of the F major key signature to the one sharp symbol shown on . In general it is easier for a student to perform music in key signatures with as few sharp or flat symbols as possible. Each flat or sharp symbol requires the student to remember to shift notes on which the sharp symbol or flat symbol is placed by one semi tone. When no sharp symbols or flat symbols occur in the key signature such as in the key signature of C major the student has no semi tone adjustments to make or remember while performing the music.

In one embodiment five different sets of key signatures corresponding to five different skill levels are employed. shows a table listing example major key signature and minor key signature sets for each skill level with skill levels increasing in complexity or difficulty numerically from skill level to skill level . shows an ordering of the key signatures in a circle of key signatures. Each key signature is separated from an adjacent key signature by one semi tone in pitch represented by the symbol . Thus for example raising the notes of the key signature G major by 1 results in key signature A major while lowering the pitch of each note in a musical selection with key signature G major by 1 results in key signature F major .

In one embodiment the following enharmonically equivalents key signatures are allowed B C major F G major C D major G A minor D E minor A B minor. The key signatures can be placed into a circle of fifths representation. shows a circle of fifths representation of the key signatures. Counter clockwise is considered the flat direction as the majority of the first six key signatures encountered when moving counter clockwise from C major A minor use flats to indicate their normal semi tone adjustments to the seven principle note names. Clockwise is considered the sharp direction as the majority of the first six key signatures encountered when moving clockwise from C major A minor use sharps to indicate their normal semi tone adjustments to the seven principle note names. In the circle of fifths representation each key signature is separated from adjacent key signatures by 7 . Thus for example the key signature G major is separated from the key signature D major by 7 in the sharp direction while the key signature G major is separated from the key signature C by 7 in the flat direction. A key signature may be characterized as flat or sharp depending on its use of sharps or flats to indicate its normal semi tone adjustments to the seven principle note names. The key signatures C major and A minor are considered neither flat nor sharp. Thus a key signature may be sharp flat or neither sharp nor flat.

Thus the Key Signature Filter is a process for restricting standard musical notation to key signatures that conform to user skill level. If the given music is written in a key signature not permitted by the selected skill level using too many sharps or flats it is transposed to a key signature using fewer sharps or flats conforming to the user skill level. The procedure may determine the interval measured in semitones from the source key signature to several destination key signatures available at the selected skill level. In one embodiment the closest destination key signature is selected and the transposition interval is set to the interval between source and destination key signatures. A suggested use is to select a software offset to map keys struck for example on a musical keyboard in the destination key to corresponding tones in the source key signature. This would permit a user at a lower skill level to play along in a simpler key with the original un transposed recording of a selected composition.

In one particular implementation the following conditions may be declared the Circle of Fifths has 12 positions. Three positions represent identical sounding key signatures with enharmonic spellings . These are F G C D B C for the major key circle of fifths and A B D E G A for the minor key circle of fifths. Thus each circle of fifths has 15 key signatures referred to here as elements E . Major Key Signatures C C D D E E F F G G A A B B C . Minor Key Signatures A A B B C C D D E E F F G G A . 1 SemiTone Unit step. Circle of Fifths consecutive keys are every 7 apart. Major Key C 12 o clock position. Minor Key Rotate circle counter clockwise by 3K units such that A is at 12 o clock position where 1K unit distance between two adjacent circle of fifth keys. F pos refers to position of key in the flat direction. S pos refers to position of key in the sharp direction. RuleFS Each notation has a KeyType Boolean Flat Sharp F S. A Notation with explicit KeyType specification e.g. C major F S 1 0 C major F S 0 1 B Notation without KeyType requires assignment of KeyType if F pos S pos 0 F 0 S 0 else if F pos S pos F 1 S 0 else if F pos 0 F pos6 K1F S 0 1 F pos 0 S pos 0 K2F S 1 0 F pos 0 S pos 0 . shows the circle of fifths and Key Type Boolean for major key signatures. . shows the circle of fifths and Key Type Boolean for the minor key signatures.

The procedure for key signature filter creation in one implementation may be as follows 1 Setup scale with 15 elements E twelve positions Major Key Signatures C C D D E E F F G G A A B B C . Minor Key Signatures A A B B C C D D E E F F G G A . 2 Setup circle of fifth for major key as described above . 3 Setup circle of fifth for minor key via Maj2Min transform see Maj2Min Transform Rotation Major 3K . 4 Define KeyFilter KM KeyFilter n where n 2m m 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. As n simplicity since higher n determines lower number of sharps and flats. See for key filter creation. KeyFilter 10 Filter UnFilter E 10 UnFilter 5 KeyFilter 8 Filter 8 UnFilter E 8 UnFilter 7 KeyFilter n Filter n UnFilter E n KeyFilter n 0 m 0 UnFilter E 15 all keys unfiltered. 5 Define KeyFilter as a paired value. KeyFilter KeyFilter Major n KeyFilter Minor n .

A generalized description of the process is as follows Set Seed Node N Iteration Start at N Iteration n 1 where n 0. Start from node n extend K units in both direction. Create a union set between KF n and KF n 1 . Iteration n 7 Stop process.

One embodiment of the key signature filter would allow a software diagnostic to determine the user s Key Signature Filter setting skill level . The user would select a song and the system would determine the song s key signature for example F Major called the source key. The system would determine the KeyType Boolean for the source key signature. The system would select a destination key signature closest smallest to the source key signature from a pool of candidate key signatures meeting the limits of the selected skill level. If the source key signature is equidistant from more than one candidate destination key signature then the composition is transposed to the candidate key signature of the same key signature type if two choices have different keytypes or to the candidate key signature having smallest absolute K units if two choices have same keytypes. An optional step is to set a play transpose value to the distance in semi tones between the source key signature and the destination key signature. For example PlayTransposeValue PTV Transpose PK SK PK PK m . For example a source key signature F Major has KeyType F S 0 1 . A key signature filter of level KF12 major has 3 candidate keys. KM12 major C F G . Both F major and G major are equidistant measured in semi tones from F . G F pos S pos 0 1 F F pos S pos 1 0 . G major is a sharp key signature F major is a flat signature G F pos S pos 0 1 F F pos S pos 1 0 . Therefore the composition is transposed to the destination key of G major.

Rhythm refers to the timings at and intervals between which distinct pitches are produced by depressing fingers blowing striking strings or key signatures depending on the type of instrument to which the musical selection is directed. Rhythm also refers to the durations for which distinct pitches are held. In musical notation this information is encoded by a combination of note types a time signature and various additional notational conventions including dotting of notes to lengthen them ties between notes to coalesce two notes into a single time duration event and general tempo directives. shows a table of attributes associated with rhythm that may be selectively controlled through different. levels of filtering to alter the various layers of a musical selection with respect to both rhythmic content and rhythmic notation. In the table shown in each row corresponds to a numbered skill level. One embodiment of system component maps specified skill levels onto the range of skill levels represented by the rows. In the described embodiment each row includes indications of 1 the smallest rhythmic sub division symbol that can occur in the notation of the selected composition for the specified skill level 2 a Boolean value indicating whether or not rests should be explicitly noted 3 a Boolean value indicating whether or not dotted notes are allowed. 4 a Boolean value indicating whether or not syncopation is allowed. The system can take many different approaches to filtering a musical selection in order to ensure that the musical selection meets specified rhythm skill levels. For example notes that are too short in duration can be removed and adjacent notes extended or rests inserted to ensure that only notes having a durations equal to or greater than the specified shortest note for the skill level occur. In alternative embodiments both the pitch and duration of neighboring notes may be altered in order to smoothly filter short duration notes. The time signature for the musical selection may also be modified as a part of the filtering process.

In one particular embodiment system component may accordingly implement a procedure called the Rhythmic Symbol Filter to limit the number of notation symbols used to indicate the rhythms in individual layers of a selected composition in order to conform to the limits of the user skill level. The rhythmic symbol filter excludes smaller rhythmic values representing them as larger values by multiplying all rhythms by 2depending on filter level and selected composition. There are many possible rhythmic notation filters. shows an embodiment of the Rhythmic Symbol Filter with eighteen levels of rhythmic symbol filtering. The following is a generalized description of the procedure for Rhythmic Symbol Filtering in one embodiment. In it original music will be referred to OM and music played by the user after selection of a rhythm filter will be referred to as PM.

For Rhythmic Symbol Filters ending in the letter A 1A 2A 3A . . . 9A allow only NOTE values. For Rhythmic Symbol Filters ending in the letter B 1B 2B 3B . . . 9B allow NOTE values and their corresponding REST values.

A Dotted Note Transform DNT will be required if OM contains a dotted note and the dotted note representation is not allowed in the selected Rhythm Symbol Filter. DNT .X X X where X is a given note value. For example DNT . Note DNT dotted half note .

A Fastest Note Transform FNT will be required if the fastest note value NV in OM is faster than the fastest note value allowed in the selected Rhythmic Symbol Filter. The steps are as follows 

 1 Determine fastest NV smallest rhythmic sub division in selected rhythmic symbol filter F PM min NV RhythmFilterN where N 1A 1B . . . XA XB. For example Rhythm Symbol Filter 1A 1B F PM note. 2 Determine fastest NV in the original music F OM min NV OM P. 3 Resolve any tied note values NV T in original music NV T Tied NV NV . . . NVn NV NV . . . NVn . 4 Determine slowest NV in the original music S OM max NV OM where NV OM includes NV T . S OM . 5 Threshold Allowed Max NV PM AMax NV PM 4 1 4 whole notes represented as 4 tied whole notes. Max FNT NV OM FNT S OM 4 1. If FNT S OM 4 1 Max NV in PM PM NV Rhythm Filtern 2 where additive factor 2 includes 2 1 4 1 NV. 6 Determine unique NV OM OM. If OM PM remove lowest ordered OM till OM PM.

For every OM analyses C Cf will be performed to determine if as a function of selected Rhythm Symbol Filter Outcome FNT OM Success Failure . If Outcome FNT OM 0 Select a higher level Rhythmic Symbol Filter to play the current OM or select a different OM with S OM max OM at current Rhythmic Symbol Filter. If Outcome FNT OM 1 FNT scalefac F PM F OM. For example F PM F OM 1 32 S OM FNT scalefac 8. FNT OM FNT scalefac NV OM NV PM . For example F PM F OM 1 32 S OM NV OM 1 32 FNT NV OM FNT NV OM scalefac FNT 1 32 8 NV PM 1 2 1 4 1.

A Time Signature Transformation TST of OM to time signature for selected rhythmic symbol filter is performed. TST OM TS PM . Time Signature T has 2 components T TN TD. For example T 4 4TN 4 TD 4. TN the numerator in the TS refers to beats per measure. TD the denominator in the TS refers to the rhythm unit denoting the beat. For example TN 4 TD 44 beats measure 4 notes per measure. TN T T . . . TK where K refers to Kth beat pattern in a measure. A beat pattern nbeats each of TD duration. In TST the beat pattern should be maintained constant. TST OM TST OMTN TD FNT scalefac TN T . . . TK TD 1 FNT scalefac For example T 2 8 TN TNT T2 TN TD . TST OM T1 8 T2 8 3 1 2 1. In the case of TN if T1 T2 TK then TST OM maintains TN T1 T2 . . . TK. If T1 T2 TK then TST OM maintains TN T1. For example if T 6 8 T1 T2 3 then TST OM 8 3 1 3 1 2 3 1 TS PM 3 1.

For further clarity of visualizing beats the TS derived in d e can be further regrouped according to the following formula allowing creation of bar lines every 1 TD 1 TD unitsTS PM TN TD TN 1 TD TS PM 1TD. For example TS 3 1 from e2 TS 1 1.

System component may additionally implement a Note Speed Filter configured to remove notes that are too fast depending upon the skill level of the user. In one particular embodiment the Note Speed Filter determines the fastest speed FS possible at the selected skill level measured as the number of consecutive notes of identical duration playable by the user per minute. This value is compared to the effective speed of each note in the selected composition allowing identification and filtering of too fast notes TFN . The effective speed of any note expressed as a rhythmic sub division is equal to the rhythmic sub division of that note plus the duration of all subsequent notes to which it is tied and or all subsequent rests between it and the next note start. The effective speed can also be expressed as a multiple of the selected BPM. For example if a user can play a maximum 240 consecutive tones of identical duration in one minute then FS 240. If the selected composition is required at a tempo of 80 BPM and time signature 4 4 then an effective note speed of 1 16exceeds FS as it is 4 BPM 320. FS in this case would be 3 BPM 240 or expressed as a rhythmic sub division eighth note triplets.

Consecutive too fast notes TFN can be filtered based on either their ON Beat or OFF Beat status. Notes preceding a filtered too fast note are extended by the duration of the filtered note. The following is a generalized process description for filtering consecutive TFN in one embodiment of system component .

 6 Determine the position of all TFN as a function of ON OFFBeat. If at the selected tempo user cannot play all of the Speed min notes per minute then delete all TFN at OFF Beats or all TFN at ON Beats. Extend all notes immediately preceding the deleted TFN by the duration of the deletions as shown in . In NV corresponds to a note value that is not TFN. This indicates that the duration of the played note duration of the played note duration of deleted TFN note following it.

A hand finger filter may also be provided in embodiments of system component . In particular a hand finger filter may be provided that ranks the relative performance difficulty of hand positions in a selected composition and restricts or adjusts those that exceed the limits of a user s skill level. Upon ranking of the hand positions required in the selected composition the hand finger filter may generate a variation of the musical composition that requires a fewer number of hand finger positions that requires fewer hand position changes and or that requires less complex hand finger positions. in one particular embodiment different pre defined hand finger positions e.g. that may be encountered for a particular instrument of interest may be ranked for example manually and data associated with the rankings may be stored in association with system component . System component may be configured to analyze a selected composition by comparing the hand finger positions as required by the selected composition to the stored ranking data to thereby output the rankings for the particular hand finger positions required by the composition. Based upon these rankings system component may be configured to perform a variety of additional functionality as desired. For example system component may be configured to transpose the selected composition using the key signature filtering method discussed above to generate a variation of the composition that requires simpler hand finger positions. Alternatively system component may be configured to remove notes associated with difficult hand finger positions from the selected composition. In yet further embodiments when a user plays the selected composition on for example a keyboard device system component may be configured to automatically play those portions of the musical composition that require the more difficult hand finger positions or to segment out those notes giving rise to the more difficult hand finger positions. Alternatively system component may be configured to generate a variation of the composition by applying a primary transposition to the entire composition and a secondary transposition to those portions of the musical composition that require the more difficult hand finger position using the key signature filtering method discussed above.

Hand positions are determined by assigning each finger a unique key to strike. The procedure is described here in terms of musical keyboard instruments the principles can be extrapolated to other instruments. The procedure ranks all permutations produced by generating exhaustively subsets of five unique pitches one per finger from a larger superset. The superset is limited by the instrument to be played and the size of the user s hand. For example in the case of a standard sized musical keyboard and the average adult hand the average limit is a major ninth encompassing 15 unique pitches. In this case all permutations produced by exhaustive generation of subsets of five unique pitches from a superset of fifteen are ranked according to the following criteria a Range b Step wise or Skip wise c Diatonic or Non diatonic d Chromatic or Non Chromatic e Number of black keys f Position of black keys. Upon identification and ranking of all hand positions required in a selected composition the procedure can be used to filter or mark for adjustment those positions exceeding the limits of user skill level.

In one embodiment Range R is defined as the musical interval from 1to 5finger. A single octave contains twelve unique pitches. Traditional music notation represents these twelve pitches with seven unique note names C D E F G A B used with or without flats or sharps . Thus the twelve unique pitches are represented as unaltered and or chromatically altered variants of the seven unique note names. A range can encompass any number of notes from a min to a max where min max 2 13 of notes 1 is a singularity unison and hence ignored. For purposes of demonstration 13 is also ignored since an octave includes a repeat of the first note. Therefore in the following description the total number of range definitions max min 1 12. It should be noted however that the range of the human hand varies considerably per user and instrument. The procedure and principles can be extrapolated to any range. Range can also be described in terms of a musical interval of semitones where n semitones n 1 notes. The following ranges are defined 

In the following discussion consecutive and non consecutive note pairs are defined as those formed by exhaustive pairing of all member tones in a given hand position. In the present embodiment a Step wise SW hand position is defined as one that contains intervals less than or equal to a major second 2 semitones between consecutive tones. Refer to R in the Range section. A Skip wise SK hand position contains one or more intervals R. In the present embodiment a Chromatic C hand position is defined as one that contains one or more chromatic progressions. A chromatic progression is defined as one that comprises 2 or more consecutive semitones. Non Chromatic NC hand positions contain no chromatic progressions. Diatonic hand positions are defined as non chromatic hand positions whose consecutive and or non consecutive note pairs do not form augmented or diminished intervals R R R R R R . For example C C D E F is non diatonic. It contains a chromatic progression between note pair and . C D E F G is non diatonic. The interval between 2and 3tone is R augmented second 3 semitones . The number of black keys required by a hand position is a factor in assessing its skill level. In general easier hand positions require fewer black keys. The starting position is defined as the key or note to which the first finger is assigned. Within a given hand position the relative position of the black keys which fingers are assigned black keys affects the skill level of the hand position. For example basic hand positions do not assign black keys assigned to the 1or 5fingers and a black key assigned to the third finger is easier than one assigned to the fourth finger given the natural curvature of the hand and typical relative finger strength. The following is a generalized process description for generating and ranking hand positions.

 2 For a given range R in one hand N notes are available. The notes of the progression are numerically ordered substituting the note name with a number. Given the fingers are numbered from 1 5 not all N notes can be potential start notes but notes N 1 to N 5 1 can be potential start notes. The code for the generation of all permutations of 5 finger hand position is shown in . The parameter max refers to the total number of notes encompassing a given range. For example a perfect 5encompasses 8 notes therefore N 8 notes are available. In this case only the 1to 4 8 5 1 4 can be potential starting notes. This also determines that the superset of finger positions in either hand comprises 56 variants as shown in . shows the numerical output for the above code for a range of perfect fifth encompassing 8 pitches . The top number in each column corresponds to the start position first finger either hand .

Although the present invention has been described in terms of a particular embodiment it is not intended that the invention be limited to this embodiment. Modifications within the spirit of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example many other different filters associated with musical elements may be used. Pitch range filters may transpose extremely low frequency or high frequency notes by octaves in order to bring all notes within a specified maximum pitch range about a reference pitch for a particular instrument. Additional note speed and note density filters may be employed to filter notes with real time durations shorter than a smallest duration allowed at a specified skill level. When too many notes are specified within any measure for a particular skill level notes may be eliminated by a note density filter. Additional technique filters can be employed including duration of blowing breath taking intervals force of striking or plucking the instrument etc. The musical election variation generation techniques and systems encompassed by the present invention can be applied in an almost limitless number of different computerized musical systems implemented in any of many different programming languages on any of many different hardware platforms using an almost limitless number of different control structures modular organizations argument types variable types and numbers and other programming parameters and implementation characteristics and styles.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention are presented for purpose of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Obviously many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments are shown and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents 

