---

title: Common antenna array using baseband adaptive beamforming and digital IF conversion
abstract: An apparatus comprises a plurality of antenna elements, a plurality of digital signal processing devices for supplying phase-and-amplitude-weighted digital baseband signals, a beamforming processor for processing the weighted digital baseband signals to adaptively form a plurality of beam patterns for the antenna elements, a plurality of digital modulators for converting the digital baseband signals into intermediate frequency digital signals, and a modulator for modulating in-phase and quadrature components of the intermediate frequency digital signals to produce composite radio frequency output signals for the antenna elements. Receiving apparatus, and methods of transmitting and receiving a plurality of signals on a plurality of antenna elements are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07830982&OS=07830982&RS=07830982
owner: Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation
number: 07830982
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060512
---
This invention was made under Contract No. N00019 00 G 0425. The United States Government has rights in this invention under the contract.

This invention relates to communications and radar systems and more particularly to such systems that include an antenna array coupled to a plurality of radio frequency devices.

Surveillance aircraft can include a variety of radio frequency devices that perform communication and surveillance functions. Each of these devices must be connected to an antenna to receive and or transmit radio frequency signals. As a result several different types of antennas are typically mounted on surveillance aircraft.

For network centric warfare a pivotal capability will be reliable fast high bandwidth wireless communications. It would be desirable to combine multiple communication and surveillance functions of a plurality of radio frequency devices using a common antenna.

This invention provides an apparatus comprising a plurality of antenna elements a plurality of digital signal processing devices for supplying phase and amplitude weighted digital baseband signals a beamforming processor for processing the weighted digital baseband signals to adaptively form a plurality of beam patterns for the antenna elements a plurality of digital modulators for converting the digital baseband signals into intermediate frequency digital signals and a modulator for modulating in phase and quadrature components of the composite intermediate frequency digital signals to produce composite radio frequency output signals for the antenna elements.

In another aspect the invention provides a method comprising the steps of using a plurality of digital signal processing devices to produce a plurality of phase and amplitude weighted digital baseband signals processing the weighted digital baseband signals to adaptively form a plurality of beam patterns for a plurality of antenna elements converting the digital baseband signals into intermediate frequency digital signals and modulating in phase and quadrature components of the intermediate frequency digital signals to produce radio frequency output signals for the antenna elements.

In still another aspect the invention provides an apparatus comprising a plurality of antenna elements a down converter for converting signals received on the antenna elements to intermediate frequency signals a plurality of analog to digital converters for converting the intermediate frequency signals to digital signals a plurality of digital down converters for converting the digital signals to baseband signals a plurality of digital signal processing devices for phase and amplitude weighting the digital baseband signals and a plurality of detectors for extracting information from the phase and amplitude weighted digital baseband signals.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a method comprising the steps of receiving a plurality of signals on a plurality of antenna elements down converting the signals received on the antenna elements to intermediate frequency signals converting the intermediate frequency signals to digital signals converting the digital signals to baseband signals phase and amplitude weighting the digital baseband signals and extracting information from the phase and amplitude weighted digital baseband signals.

This invention seeks to provide reliable fast high bandwidth wireless communications utilizing advances in signal processing as opposed to adding more radio hardware. The invention provides a common antenna array using baseband adaptive beamforming and digital intermediate frequency IF conversion.

Referring to the drawings is a pictorial representation of an aircraft that can carry a plurality of radio frequency devices that can be used to implement the present invention. The aircraft includes a rotodome and a fuselage . A plurality of antennas for example blade antennas and and additional antennas in the rotodome are used to transmit and receive radio frequency signals. Each of the antennas is connected to a radio frequency device. Such devices include for example communications transmitters and receivers radar etc. mounted in the aircraft. In one example there are many radios of the same type on the aircraft and each radio has its own antenna.

An array of antenna elements mounted on a rotodome and the fuselage of a surveillance aircraft has been proposed to provide the required antenna functionality. The same collection of antenna elements could be used to service all radios or all virtual radios if software defined radio technology is used by organizing the antenna elements into a shared array that could provide multiple user adaptive beamforming to enhance the transmit and receive signal strength for each radio frequency device. This could be realized by allowing each radio to determine its own set of array element weights by using an adaptive algorithm and then applying these weights in the digital baseband processor of each individual radio function as opposed to applying them at the antenna elements as do traditional phased array antennas.

In one embodiment of the invention the beamforming processor and modulator allows all radios to use all antenna elements controls the gain of the antenna array to improve communications and expands the antenna type options to include conformal arrays including stationary and radome mounted arrays. It also provides a beam steering function to control the directional gain of the array. Baseband beamforming is used to create an independent beam for each radio. This architecture decouples the number of radios from the number of antennas and has the potential for Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO communications.

The radio devices include complex digital signal generators and . The complex digital signal generator produces in phase and quadrature signals that are combined with weighting factors in mixers and . The complex digital signal generator produces in phase and quadrature signals that are combined with weighting factors in complex digital mixers and . The weighted outputs are combined in summation circuits and in the digital combiner to produce composite digital in phase and quadrature signals that are converted to analog signals by digital to analog converters and .

The I Q RF modulator includes a plurality of analog mixers and that receive baseband analog signals from the digital to analog converters and mix those signals with a pair of phase displaced signals on lines and from a local oscillator . The outputs of the mixers are combined in combiners and to produce RF output signals on lines and .

The system of applies independent digital array weighting at baseband for each radio function so that when the composite RF signals reach the antenna elements separate array responses will be realized for each radio function independently through the single antenna array.

As shown in the sampled signals coming out of each of the PSFs each having an independent IF modulation are combined into a composite sampled signal in the adder. This composite sampled signal will contain the data from each radio function associated with the same antenna element will have the pulse shaping desired for digital transmission and will include independent IF modulation for each radio function that is dependant on the independent RF carrier desired for each radio function.

The additional effect that this digital IF modulation has on the transmit function depicted in is that by performing separate IF modulation digitally and independently for each radio function the composite RF signal reaching the antenna elements will include one RF component that is the result of the combination of the IF modulation associated with one radio function with the single common RF up conversion and a separate and independent RF component that is the result of the combination of the IF modulation associated with the other radio function with the single common RF up conversion.

The complete net effect of digital baseband beamforming and digital IF modulation is that the composite RF signal at the antenna elements will form two independent array responses one that carries the data associated with one radio function and one that carries the data associated with the other radio function even though there is only one common array and each of these independent array responses will be transmitted at separate and independent RFs one RF associated with one radio function and the other RF associated with the other radio function even though there is only a single local oscillator for RF up conversion.

In RF signal energy is received by each of the antenna elements and then down converted using a single RF local oscillator. If the received RF energy includes two signals at different RFs the composite signal after down conversion will include components at two separate IFs one associated with each of the two radio receiver devices shown. Although two radio receiver devices are used in this description those versed in the art will recognize that the concept is easily expanded to any number of radio receiver devices. The I and Q IF analog signals associated with the signal received by each antenna element are then digitized by each of the A D converters creating a set of composite digital IF signals associated with the signal received by each antenna element. Once digitized two replicas of each complex digital signal are created one for each of the radio devices.

Digital down conversion DDC will then be applied to all digital paths. The DDCs feeding digital radio receiver will modulate the composite digital signal so that the component intended for digital radio receiver of the composite signal will be converted to baseband. The DDCs feeding digital radio receiver will modulate the composite digital signal so that the component intended for digital radio receiver of the composite signal will be converted to baseband.

After the digital down conversions are performed there are four digital baseband signals for each radio receiver. Each of the four signals represents a digital baseband version of the signal received at the corresponding antenna element. A weighted combination of each receiver s four baseband signals is created using an independent weight set for each radio device. The weight set used for digital radio receiver creates an effective antenna array response pattern with a beam steered in the direction of the signal transmission intended for that digital radio receiver . The weight set used for radio receiver creates an effective antenna array response pattern with a beam steered in the direction of the signal transmission intended for that digital radio receiver that is independent of the array response pattern created for digital radio receiver . The weight set associated with digital radio receiver is obtained by using an adaptive beam steering algorithm that seeks to minimize the mean square error between the received weighted summed baseband signal and the locally generated baseband representation of the actual signal transmitted to digital radio receiver . The optimal Minimum Mean Square Error MMSE weights are given by where the vector is the set of four digital baseband signals that are being combined and d is the actual transmitted signal. This is detailed in . The weight set associated with digital radio receiver would be obtained by using a similar adaptive beam steering algorithm however in this instance the algorithm seeks to minimize the mean square error between the received weighted summed baseband signal and the locally generated baseband representation of the actual signal transmitted to digital radio receiver .

Since most of the radio links are and will be digital the adaptive algorithm used to determine the weight set for each radio function could use training bits embedded in the messages of each corresponding radio link as the reference signal d. Alternatively some form of decision directed feedback operating on the digital symbols in each link could be used in which a hard decision on each symbol value is assumed to be correct and is then used as a reference signal. The use of software defined radio technology would facilitate the implementation of these approaches.

This antenna array concept could be expanded to include automatic channel estimation to remove multipath distortion using so called space time adaptive processing. The concept could further be expanded to support Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO links in which forward error correction coding is distributed over not only time but also over the antenna elements providing advantages of both temporal and spatial diversity. MIMO has been shown to be very effective in improving the quality of wireless links used in packet switched networks such as the high speed IP data networks that are anticipated for the future airborne military user.

The architecture developed for this invention could be easily changed without any hardware switches or controls using the same antenna array to a configuration that would require neither a pilot nor a training signal but would instead work to minimize total power with the constraint that one of the antenna elements would always have unity gain. The adaptive algorithm would then automatically place spatial nulls in the direction of strong jammers. This configuration is shown in wherein mixer combines the received signal with a unity weighting factor. Depending on the mode of operation the system could easily switch between the first configuration which utilizes training or pilot information from the desired signal to steer spatial beams in the desired signal direction and place nulls in interferer directions and the second architecture which requires no cooperation from the desired signal but automatically places nulls in the direction of jammers. The second configuration would be useful in an acquisition mode prior to obtaining a track on the desired signal.

In the alternative configuration when no desired signal training or pilot is available to drive an adaptive algorithm minimizing the total output power subject to some constraint that keeps the array from collapsing to zero is a criterion. It is assumed that jammers are very strong compared to desired signals. If however there is a desired signal whose strength is comparable to an interferer this desired signal could inadvertently be attenuated in this configuration. In such a situation one could consider a super resolution approach which can blindly separate all signals of significant strength i.e. blind source separation . Another approach might use a super resolution style singular value decomposition to create a subspace of strong signals that can be separated and detected. The desired signals in this subspace could then be removed from the original signal space creating a complimentary subspace of all the weak desired signals and the strong jammers. An MMSE driven power minimization adaptation could then be performed on the complimentary subspace to null the jammer signals.

An added benefit of the architecture which would enable baseband beamforming is the ability with no additional hardware to implement active adaptive cancellation of cross talk interference between communication links operating simultaneously as illustrated in . In the system of radio devices and are connected to a beamforming processor . The beamforming processor includes an amplifier a summer a multiplexing and beamforming circuit and a plurality of digital to analog and analog to digital converters . A modulator demodulator is connected between the beamforming circuit and a plurality of antennas and .

The optimal gain k on the canceling signal can be obtained adaptively as illustrated in . The system of is similar to that of except that the amplifier has been replaced by first and second mixers and and an integrator .

The adaptation process for active cancellation can be integrated into the adaptation process for beamforming. Further a single adaptive cancellation loop can be generalized to an adaptive finite impulse response FIR filter to compensate for non linear distortion that the interfering signal would experience during transmission from a transmit antenna to a receive antenna.

Similar adaptive cancellation can be applied to interfering signals from on board jammers and radars as shown in respectively. The system of is similar to that of except that one of the radio devices is now a radar exciter which is connected to a separate digital to analog converter a radar transmitter and an antenna .

The system of is similar to that of except that one of the radio devices is now an electronic warfare EW exciter which is connected to a separate digital to analog converter an EW transmitter and an antenna .

Systems constructed in accordance with this invention use added processing to provide improved performance. If processing gains are sufficient to allow transmit power and antenna element size to be reduced a net savings in weight and power could be realized.

While the invention has been described in terms of several embodiments it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes can be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

