---

title: Software bridge for multi-point multi-media teleconferencing and telecollaboration
abstract: A multimedia bridge which enables enterprise-class voice, Web, and video teleconferencing. The multimedia bridge is a distributed media server architecture that efficiently routes, bridges, manages integrated voice, data and video streams across multiple sites in real-time. The multimedia bridge includes media services, session control, content distribution and any-device access layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07764632&OS=07764632&RS=07764632
owner: Interwise Ltd.
number: 07764632
owner_city: Airport
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20060824
---
The present invention relates generally to multimedia conferencing and more specifically to a distributed software bridge supporting a multimedia conferencing and collaboration apparatus. The apparatus provides for multi point multi media multi participatory virtual meetings realized through industry standard communication computing and switching hardware means and managed monitored protected and controlled by software means.

In today s global multi national business world it is not always possible or even desirable to convene a meeting in which persons from many different geographical locations are physically present in one place. It is more productive to look for cost efficient alternatives such as teleconferencing. For the most demanding teleconferencing applications requiring multimedia content and resources advanced video conferencing and web conferencing solutions are available. A conference call is an efficient inexpensive way to gather individuals and groups from multiple different locations together in a virtual meeting to converse in an orderly manner using standard communications technology. Conference calls have many common business applications serving as a medium for staff meetings training sessions consultation crisis management and more. Companies in various different industries benefit from audio conferencing. In the financial industry for instance corporations and investment banks commonly use conference calls for earnings releases investor relations and stockholder meetings as well as for the timely release of critical information through analyst calls. In sales and marketing conference calls are an efficient medium for exchanging information on orders and pricing forecasting industry trends and making new product announcements. Public relations firms use conference calls to make corporate announcements issue promotional reviews and news releases and announce special events and programs. Companies in these and many other industries have recognized the benefits of using conference calls improved communication better dissemination of information reduced travel costs and increased productivity.

In the field of communications a bridge is a micro processor controlled device which has a multiplicity of parts that can be interconnected in a variety of ways for connecting multiple telephone lines to each other. Bridges are often used to establish multi party conference calls. As the demand for conference call services increases improvements are needed in the flexibility responsiveness and data carrying capability of the service. A bridge may include any number of parts which can service many calls. Currently operating conferencing systems are typically supported via hardware based conference bridges with some of the systems allowing for software controlled bridges. Bridges are assigned to and support a conference in a non flexible manner such that once a bridge is assigned it remains associated with the conference until the conference is terminated. As a result the number of conference participants should be determined in advance and the load on the allocated bridge is typically pre determined. A bridge designed in such a manner does not enable dynamic bandwidth allocation during multi participant meetings. Bridge load capacity inefficiency and bandwidth limitation makes video conferencing and multi media conferencing difficult. Existing bridges typically support either only Personal Computer PC audio or phone audio but not a mixed session where some of the participants speak using a PC and others using a phone.

It would be easily perceived by one with ordinary skills in the art that in order to provide for efficient real time multi media multi point teleconferencing there is a need for a new type of conference bridge that will provide for real time bridging real time data distribution dynamic in conference load allocation and substantially reduced bandwidth requirements.

The present invention describes a bridge for enabling a teleconference for telecollaboration event between two or more participants. The participants are connected to two or more servers. The servers cooperate in order to support efficient multi media multi point event. One or more of the servers can be a hosting server and one or more other servers can be on premise servers wherein each server is connected to an at least one other server and each participant device is connected to one server. The participants can use any phone or any computing platform or a combination thereof.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment there is thus provided in a distributed teleconferencing system operating in a data communication network a bridge apparatus for bridging and routing one or more integrated data streams the software bridge comprising two or more communication servers connected to the data communications network the communication servers perform cooperatively for bridging of audio video and data streams and applicative data distributing during a teleconferencing or telecollaboration event between two or more participants. Optionally the bridge is a software bridge. One or more of the at least two communication servers can be connected to one or more client devices. Optionally one or more additional communication servers connect to any of the at least two communication servers. Additional communication servers can be automatically added or removed dynamically during an event. Within the bridge an at least one communication server can be located within an organization and an at least one communication server can be located in public network. The integrated data stream can comprise audio data video data or digital data. Within the bridge a first participant is optionally connected a first communication server during the teleconferencing or telecollaboration event and a second participant is optionally connected a second communication server during teleconferencing or telecollaboration event. Optionally one participant is using a telephony device to connect to the teleconferencing or telecollaboration event wherein the telephony device is linked to one of the communication servers via an Internet Protocol gateway and a private branch exchange. Optionally one or more of the communication servers comprise a telephony server for connecting a telephony device to the communication server. Within the bridge one participant is optionally using a computing device to connect to the teleconferencing or telecollaboration event. Within the bridge a computing device and a telephony device are optionally connected to the teleconferencing or telecollaboration event and wherein the computing device issues a mute command or an unmute command to the telephony device. Optionally a first participant using a telephony device calls a first communication server of the at least two communication servers and a second participant using a telephony device calls a second communication server of the at least two communication servers. The bridge apparatus can further comprise one or more server manager connected to the data communications network for managing and controlling the communication servers. Optionally the communication servers are linked to a communication center installed on a computing platform for managing and controlling the teleconferencing and telecollaboration event. Within the bridge apparatus the communicative servers can be distributed across the data communications network. The data communications network is optionally the Internet. Optionally one or more of the communication servers includes a materials server component for providing applicative materials to a participant client device a conferencing data multiplexer and distribution component for receiving one or more conferencing and collaboration data streams from one or more client devices or from one or more communications servers and forwarding a data stream to a client device or to a communications server and a telephony component for handling and connecting telephony devices to the teleconferencing and telecollaboration event. Optionally the conferencing data multiplexer and distribution component also mixes the streams into a single mixed data stream. The sent data stream can be the single mixed data stream or one or more of the received conferencing and collaboration data streams.

Another aspect of the disclosed invention discloses in a teleconferencing system a bridging method for cooperatively routing integrated data streams during a teleconferencing and telecollaboration event the cooperative bridging method comprising creating a conferencing or collaboration event on a communication center by a participant querying the communication center concerning new teleconferencing or telecollaboration events by a proxy remote controller notifying the proxy remote controller concerning a new teleconferencing or telecollaboration event by the communication center assigning the event to the proxy remote controller by the communication center obtaining a network site tree of available computing and communication platforms for the event from a server manager by the proxy remote controller selecting a computing and communication platform from each network site by the proxy remote controller using load balancing technology sending a load request to the proxy agent of all the computing and communications platforms in the network sites tree by the proxy remote controller receiving an active process load request by a proxy agent of a communication server installed on a main computing platform receiving a sleeping process load request by an at least one proxy agents of an at least one communication server installed on an at least one other computing and communication platforms loading an active process of the communication server on the main computing and communications platform by the proxy agent of the communication server connecting the active process to the proxy remote controller and sending a process ready command to the proxy remote controller and the multiplexer. The method can further comprise the steps of loading an at least one of the group consisting of event ID proxy remote server IP proxy remote server port and proxy remote server version on the communication server installed on the main computing and communications platform receiving an at least one event parameter security information or number of maximum participants by the active process of the communication server from the proxy remote controller and updating the communication server with event ID communication server IP or ports list of an active process of the communication server installed on the main computing and communications platform.

Yet another aspect of the disclosed invention relates to an apparatus for supporting one or more virtual meeting between two or more participants using communications and switching devices the apparatus comprising two or more client devices for connecting two or more participants to a teleconferencing or telecollaboration event the client devices receiving sending or exchanging conferencing data streams there between two or more conferencing communication servers for receiving data streams from the client devices and for routing the data streams between the client devices wherein each of the client devices is communicatively connected to one or more of the communication servers. Optionally the virtual meeting is managed and controlled by software components. The system optionally operates across one or more data communications network. The data communications networks can be any of the following an IP based data communications network or a public switched telephone network. The system can further comprise an IP gateway to allow routing of the data stream across an at least one boundary of the at least one communications network. Optionally supports distributed participation of the participants being in geographically distributed locations. The at least one data stream can comprise any of the following a voice data stream a video data stream a digital data stream or a multi media data stream. Within the system any of the client devices is optionally one of the following an analog landline telephone device a digital landline telephone device a cellular telephone device a smart phone device with computing communications and processing capabilities a satellite communications telephone device or a computing device with communications capabilities. Within the system one or more client devices can be telephony devices and one or more client devices can be computing platforms. Further a computing platform can send one or more mute or unmute commands to a telephony device. Two or more conferencing communication servers can constitute a networked cluster of servers. Within the system one or more communication server can comprise one or more of the following an Interactive Voice Response component a data stream caching component a data stream multiplexer component for mixing at least two streams into a single data stream or for distributing the mixed data stream or at least one or the at least two data streams to one or more client devices or to one or more servers. The communication server further includes a software component to connect client devices and or a routing component for routing one or more data streams to client devices or to other communication servers. The data stream can be a multiplexed data stream. Optionally load balancing technology is utilized for load balancing communications load between the conferencing communication servers. The load balancing can assign work load to the conferencing communication servers or components such that computing resources are used in an optimal manner. The load balancing can provide high availability by detecting a server failure or a component failure and reconfiguring the system appropriately. Within the system the communication server can further comprise an IP protocol control component. The teleconferencing or telecollaboration event is a real time event.

An apparatus and method for multimedia teleconferencing and telecollaboration that supports multi point multi media multi participatory virtual meetings is disclosed. The apparatus and method utilize industry standard communication computing and switching hardware means. The virtual meeting such as a teleconferencing and telecollaboration session or event is set up managed monitored protected and controlled by software. Telecollaboration relates to a cooperation of multiple possibly remote parties in concurrent working on a task having a discussion comprising of audio and or video and or one or more shared documents or applications such as a written document a presentation instruction codes or any other type of document. Any party can be connected via a telephone of any kind a computer or a telephone and a computer.

The proposed teleconferencing and telecollaboration system is supported by a novel enhanced conferencing bridge preferably implemented as one or more software routines modules or other components cooperating to perform the disclosed invention which will be referred herein after as the softbridge. The multimedia softbridge enables enterprise class voice Web data and video teleconferencing. The multimedia softbridge is an all software distributed media server architecture that efficiently routes bridges and manages integrated voice digital data video or other multi media streams across multiple network sites in real time and supports multiple devices as end points. The multimedia softbridge includes media services session control content distribution and any device access layer. The multimedia softbridge can leverage current investment in Time Division Multiplexing TDM and Internet Protocol IP infrastructures of an enterprise to deliver dynamic provisioning of communication servers in real time for virtually unlimited scalability. A ready addition of communication servers running on industry standard hardware in order to achieve any capacity requirement is provided. The apparatus provides for high operational availability by providing automatic reconnections and intelligent server selections. As a result substantially optimal uptime and performance metrics are achieved. Sensitive conferences are made secure as well as data and network applications. Security is achieved via authentication and protection protocols which are integrated with existing security processes and technologies such as directory services reverse proxy servers single sign on capabilities encryption and the like.

Referring to the proposed teleconferencing and telecollaboration system is shown as comprising a hosting site a first on premise site and a second on premise site . In some embodiments of the present invention system does not comprise a hosting site such that the hosting site shown in is located and operated as part of the first or second on premise sites . The hosting site is linked to the first on premise site and the second on premise site respectively by communications links and protected by firewall devices. The present invention is not limited to the number of sites or servers shown in and those skilled in the art will appreciate that many additional servers at such and other locations can be associated with the present system and invention. Thus a plurality of hosting sites and on premise sites can be linked to form the present invention. Likewise a plurality of hosting sites can be linked one to the other to create primary and secondary sites operating in concert to obtain the objectives of the present invention. The hosting site is further linked to a telephony device and a computing and display device . Hosting site includes a telephony PSTN section and an Internet Protocol IP section . The PSTN section includes a telephony switch which is communicatively linked in a first direction to the telephony device . Telephony switch is linked in a second direction to an Internet Protocol IP gateway device . The function of the gateway device is to connect the PSTN section to the IP section such as to translate calls received at or from telephony device in a telephony communication format such as analog or digital sound to IP format such as data packets carrying digitalized information that reflect the content and characteristics of a telephony call. A further function of IP gateway is to translate IP formatted data packets into telephony formatted analog or digital sounds and send them to the telephony device . Specifically the function of IP gateway is to enable the transferring and handling of telephone calls via an IP based communications network. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the Voice over IP VoIP technology is used to transmit the call data via the data communication network. Gateway is connected in the second direction to an IP communication server ICS . ICS is one server in a cluster of similar servers where the other members of the cluster are ICS and ICS . ICS is linked to an IP Communications Center ICC . ICS is linked to the computing and display device via firewall . Firewall is installed between hosting system and device in order to protect system from unauthorized access.

Still referring to ICS as well as ICS and detailed below are elements that perform cooperative real time bridging and applicative data distribution during a teleconference or a telecollaboration event. ICS further use as applicative material servers for distributing the materials for the events such as teleconferences of telecollaboration sessions prior to or during the event. ICS are preferably applications running on computing platforms such as a network computer a personal computer a mainframe computer or the like that distribute data during an event to all participants in the event record the events and update the ICC automatically generated reports. The processes performing the above functionalities are a proxy remote controller referred to as PRC a proxy agent referred to as PxAgent a process referred to as Px a multiplexer process referred to as Mux a push process and Upload process referred to as FIUpload. A more detailed description of above processes their functionality structure and the forms of interaction within the framework of the proposed conferencing and collaboration system will be provided herein after in conjunction with the following drawings. ICC is the management and control component which handles administration and maintenance of live events participants and servers that are part of the conferencing environment. ICC further enables users to create and register events view user personal data and schedules search for specific events and the like. ICC provides the information for the real time system concerning when events conferences or collaborative sessions should occur different attributes for these events and who may attend them. ICC preferably further comprises one or more web applications that communicate with a database not shown and archives recordings and attendance information received from ICS and after the termination of the events. ICC can be further connected to other systems in an organization such as user management enterprise management billing or the like. An IP Telephony Server ITS not shown includes a group of components within each of ICS and . ITS not shown handles connecting telephones such as telephony device to the disclosed system. Recording is the writing of conference data to a recordings file. The recordings file is uploaded at the end of the event conference or collaborative session to the ICC . Once the user chooses to playback the recordings the file is downloaded to the end point client device operated by the user. The server records only data which is distributed to all participants. The Px saves a reporting data structure for each user. The reporting data structure is updated with every login and logout of the user. At the end of the event the data is written to a text file and the file is uploaded to the ICC via the operation of the Uploader process.

Still referring to ICS is communicatively linked via firewall to remote on premise systems such as first on premise system and second on premise system . The communications link is established and operates via a data communications network such as the Internet. On premise remote system includes a firewall a telephony PSTN section and an IP section . IP section includes an ICS a first computing and display device a second computing and display device and a third computing and display device . ICS is structurally and functionally substantially similar to ICS presented in association with the hosting system . Computing and display devices are user operated devices such as a Personal Computers PCs with communication capabilities. Devices are intermittently linked to ICS . ICS is connected to IP gateway device which is structurally and functionally substantially similar or equivalent to IP gateway presented in association with hosting system . PSTN section of first on remise remote system includes a telephony switch a traditional push button telephony device and a cellular telephony device . Device is linkable to switch via a landline while device is linked to switch either via a cellular communications network not shown or through a traditional telephony network not shown via a specific gateway device not shown . Device and device are operated by a user for remote communications purposes. Device and device provide the users with the option of creating joining to or participating in a teleconference or a telecollaboration session via telephony switch IP gateway ICS and firewall . In similar manner devices are operated by users not shown and provide the option to the users not shown to create join or participate in a remote teleconferencing or telecollaboration session via ICS and firewall . It will be easily perceived that the users of the devices can create join or participate in a conferencing or collaboration session across multiple sites such as or additional ones. Still referring to second on premise remote system includes a firewall a telephony PSTN section and an IP section . IP section includes an ICS a first computing and display device and a second computing and display device . ICS is structurally and functionally substantially similar to ICS that was presented in hosting system and to ICS of first on premise system . Computing and display devices or are user operated devices such as a PC with communication capabilities. Devices are intermittently linked to ICS . ICS is connected to IP gateway device which is structurally and functionally substantially similar or equivalent to IP gateway presented in association with hosting system and to IP gateway device of first on premise system . PSTN section of second on premise remote system includes a telephony switch and optionally a traditional push button telephony device . Device is linkable to telephony switch via a landline telephony network. Device is operated by a user not shown for remote voice communications purposes. Device provides the user not shown with the option of creating participating or joining a teleconference session or a telecollaboration session via telephony switch IP gateway ICS and firewall . In a similar manner devices are operated by users not shown and provide the option to the users not shown to create join or participate in a teleconferencing or telecollaboration session via ICS and firewall . It will be easily perceived that the users of the devices could also create join or participate in a conferencing or collaboration session by connecting to any of the other ICSs such as or . IP Server Manager ISM device is communicatively connected to hosting system and to on premise systems and links not shown . The function of the ISM is to manage and configure the ICSs of the proposed teleconferencing and telecollaboration system and their cooperation in bridging and distributing applicative data during events. In a preferred embodiment each ICS can be connected to one or more clients as well as to one or more other servers and can receive and send streams to or from the servers as well as the clients.

Note should be taken that the above described drawing represents a simplified teleconferencing and telecollaboration system and is provided for purposes of easier understanding only. In a realistic environment the hosting system could include a plurality of computing and display devices a plurality of ICS devices and a plurality of ICC devices. A plurality of telephony devices could be connected and handled by the hosting system via more than one telephony switch and more than one IP gateway. The hosting system could be connected to a plurality of on premise systems or any other types of systems such as branch office systems and the like. The first and second on premise systems could include a plurality of computing and display devices a plurality of ICSs telephony devices and the like. Additional secondary on premise systems could be connected to hosting system to first on premise system or to second on premise system . Such additional secondary on premise systems can in turn be connected to further on premise systems. The internal and external connections among the components of the systems could be different. One or more of the systems could include additional components such as for example reverse proxies. The computing devices of the hosting system could access various client applications not shown such as e mail IM CRM ERP calendaring and the like via the ICC in order to distribute the data there from during teleconferencing or telecollaboration to other conference participants.

Referring now to in which a group of elements of the proposed teleconferencing and telecollaboration system is shown in an exemplary setting comprising an IP Communications Center ICC several computing and display devices such as user operated personal computers and several telephony devices such as Time Division Multiplexing TDM phones cellular phones or Internet Protocol IP phones analog landline phones digital landline phones smart phones with computing communications or processing capabilities satellite communications phones or the like. Further elements include a private branch exchange PBX private telephone switchboard an IP gateway device and a softbridge . Softbridge is responsible for bridging and routing integrated Audio Video or data streams and includes a main IP communication server ICS a second IP ICS and a third ICS . Although further ICSs can be connected to the shown structure exactly one ICS being ICS in the embodiment of serves as a main ICS. Each of the other ICSs should be connected to the main ICS either directly or through connection to additional ICSs. Each ICS can further comprise a networked cluster of servers. ICSs and additional ones if any are preferably distributed across a network such as the internet in order to provide geographically distributed participants with better performance. Telephony devices are telephones operated by users not shown for purposes of voice video and multi media communications where the device is provided with the suitable transmission reception and handling capabilities. Devices are communicatively connected to IP gateway via PBX . IP gateway is connected during a teleconference or a telecollaboration session to third ICS of the softbridge . Third ICS of softbridge is connected either constantly or during a teleconference or telecollaboration session to first ICS of softbridge . First ICS of softbridge is also connected to second ICS of softbridge and to IP Communications Center ICC . First and second computing and display devices respectively are communicatively connected to second ICS of softbridge . Third and fourth computing and display devices are communicatively connected during a teleconference or telecollaboration session to ICS . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the function of the telephony devices is to enable a user not shown to communicate with the system in order to create join or participate in a teleconferencing session of a telecollaboration session. Each user dials the phone number of the ICS nearest to the user or another preferred ICS on devices and a connection is established between devices and the PBX . In accordance with the dialing code the PBX switches the incoming call to the IP gateway . Gateway transform the incoming call signals or call data into data packets of IP format and forwards the data packets via the IP based data communications network not shown to the ICS of choice being device in the exemplary setting shown in . When creating or connecting to a conference an IVR component within each ICS described below allows a user to setup or join an existing conference based on data available to the ICC . ICC handles the call in accordance with the status of the conference and the user s request. If the user attempts to create a conference then ICC defines a new conference and consequently manages the conference. Based on the response from the ICC ICS then connects the call to a specific conference and receives distributes audio for this conference via main ICS . In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the function of the computing and display devices is to enable a user not shown to communicate with the system in order to create join to or participate in a teleconferencing event or a telecollaboration event. Each user submits a specific request to participate in the conferencing event. Prior to connecting to an event the application at the user s device tests the connection to each relevant server and picks the one which responds fastest typically the nearest one. In the settings shown in a connection is established between devices and the second ICS of softbridge . The user s data is transmitted via the IP based data communications network not shown to the chosen ICS device . From ICS the data is transferred through ICS and to all participants of the event. Preferably streams arriving from the clients or servers connected to an ICS are mixed into a single stream and then transferred by an ICS. Alternatively streams are sent as is and mixed at the client.

If the user attempts to create a conference then the ICC defines a new conference and consequently manages the conference. Further servers can be added to ICS in order to provide adequate service to participants in a specific event in accordance with the work load on the ICSs. However ICS are not limited to being connected to a specific event but can be active in multiple simultaneous events. In accordance with the requests of one or more conference participants Data generated by participants of an event can be distributed among one or more participating devices via one or more ICS of softbridge . As shown in the disclosed invention enables the participation of both PC users and telephone users in the same teleconferencing events. Each participant will receive data according to the equipment he or she is using and in accordance with the resources available for each user. Thus for example a PC user will receive audio and video data while a phone user will receive only audio data Similarly a PC user having a faster connection will receive content in a faster pace than a participant having a slower connection.

The present invention enables one or more participant in a teleconferencing event to connect through a phone either fixed or mobile and one or more participants to connect using a PC. Each participant receives the data that can be used by the device he is using. For example a PC user will receive video and audio data while a phone participant will receive only audio data. Further the PC of a user can be bound to a phone of the same user and control it e.g. issue a mute or unmute command so that voice will be transferred or stopped from being transferred from the phone to the conference.

Referring now to the IP Communications Center ICC comprises a group of inter related software programs installed on a computing platform operating in a data communications network such as the Internet and more specifically the World Wide Web WWW or Web . The ICC is a Web based application that handles the administration and maintenance of live events such as teleconferencing and various telecollaboration sessions. ICC further administers and manages participants users of the events content of events and communication servers that are part of the system of the conferencing environment. ICC displays information about events enables users to create and register events enables users to view personal data and schedules enables searching for a specific event and the like. Users connecting to events using a telephony device are directed to the events using an Interactive Voice Response IVR System described below based on information from ICC . ICC can further connect through Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP or another protocol to any organizational system for purposes such as participant authentication. The information generally available for users using a web interface is translated into an Interactive Voice Response IVR system so that the users using telephonic interface are provided with audible information. ICC information is preferably managed through Application Programming Interface API modules and presented on customers portal calendar or similar applications. A transparent access to ICC functionality allows for customized user experience in several environments. ICC further generates attendance reports for tracking purposes such as for example billing. ICC includes a live events administration and maintenance component a participant maintenance and administration component a content administration and maintenance component an event information display component an event creation and registration component an events search component a participant authentication component and an attendance report generator component and an ICS communications component responsible for the communications with the various ICSs. ICS communications component is also referred to as Proxy Remote Controller PRC . A group of participant devices are linked to ICC . Devices could be computing and display devices accessing ICC via a web interface.

Referring now to showing the components of an ICS application such as ICS or of . Since the ICS is an application the various components are generally processes or other applications or parts thereof which execute and perform the tasks associated with the ICS. The processes of the ICC and ICS cooperate in the initialization execution and control of a teleconferencing and telecollaboration system. On the ICC side the processes include a proxy remote controller PRC installed on the ICC platform. The PRC schedules events such as conferences learning meetings and others created on the ICC. On the ICS side the processes include a listener that acts as a multiplexer and manager for the transfer of incoming connection requests through the ICS. Listener further serves as a single listening point for incoming connections to other processes in ICS . Listener preferably communicates with other components via messages associated with the operating system such as Windows messages. ICS further comprises a materials server component for transferring applicative materials to client devices participating in an event. ICS further comprises a process agent PxAgent and a process PX each preferably implemented as a collection of processes. PxAgent is responsible for communicating with the PRC installed in the ICC through ICC update component which receives and sends data from or to the PRC. PxAgent is further responsible for the loading of processes associated with PX in response to commands received from the PRC through ICC update component or from the ISM. PX is a collection of components preferably implemented as software components such as processes executables or the like responsible for distributing all types of data such as sound video application sharing slides tests notes and the like during an event. Px is preferably a real time or near real time server which distributes all types of data such as sound video application sharing slides tests notes and the like to participants during an event. Px preferably comprises a communication protocol controller component that parses and packs messages received from or sent to other ICSs and or participant devices an application logic component that manages the state of the event and executes control commands such as mute unmute participant an event recorder component for storing data related to a teleconferencing or telecollaboration event an event data caching component for caching data or parameters related to an event a data routing component that routes data to participant devices either directly or through other ICSs a data receiver component that receives and processes data from other ICSs and participant devices an event data multiplexer and distribution component for receiving conferencing and collaboration data streams from client devices selecting and mixing the client device specific streams into one or more mixed data streams and forwarding the mixed data stream to all client devices and ICSs according to their capability e.g. telephony devices will receive only audio data while PC devices will also receive video data and a data transmission component . ICS further comprises a collection of telephony support components for supporting IP Audio Conferencing. Telephony components designed to handle and connect telephony devices to the telecollaboration event include an interactive voice response IVR component for enabling voice interaction with a user wishing to create or participate in an event a Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF component for receiving and analyzing tones from a user in order to make selections when creating or joining an event a session control component that handles the startup and tear down of incoming calls a media processing component that processes audio signals received from the telephone devices and performs actions such as gain control noise reduction and speech detection and a protocol conversion component that packs and unpacks the Standard IP Telephony protocols. A group of participant devices are linked to ICS . Devices could be computing and display devices accessing ICS via IP protocol and or could be telephony devices accessing ICS via telephony interface devices such as switches and IP gateway devices. ICS may also include a push server not shown which sends to the participants both pre prepared content used for live events and any pre recorded materials such as for example self paced lessons in an IP based learning environment. Materials are sent to the participants through server trees leveraging server network infrastructure and thus keeping bandwidth usage to an absolute minimum.

Referring now to showing a flowchart of the main steps associated with initiating an event. At step the user creates generates an event such as a teleconference or telecollaborative session on the ICC. At step the proxy remote controller PRC periodically queries an ICC database not shown for new events. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the length of the inter query period is about two seconds. In other preferred embodiments of the invention the length of the period could differ. At step the ICC notifies the PRC about the next event at least a pre defined time interval prior to the start of the event. At step the ICC assigns the event to the PRC and transfers data related to the event time attendees subject materials or the like and at step the PRC obtains the network site tree for the event from the ISM. Consequently at step the PRC selects a specific computing and communications platform with a communication server installed thereon from each network site in accordance with the comparative workload on the platforms of a network site. In the preferred embodiment of the invention the selected platform is typically one with the lowest workload while in other preferred embodiments the specific platform could be selected according to other parameters for example to allow for utilizing the computing resources in an enhance manner. Further the load balancing can detect a server or a component failure and by reconfiguring the system appropriately provide high availability of the system. At step the PRC sends a load request to the PxAgent of all the platforms in the network site tree. At step the PxAgent associated with the main ICS receives a load active Px now request while all other PxAgents receive a load sleeping Px request.

Still referring to at step the PxAgent of the main ICS loads a Px process and at step the event ID PRC IP PRC port PRC version and additional parameters are loaded on the main ICS. At step the Px process of the main ICS connects to the PRC and receives among other data the event parameters security information maximum number of participants and the like. At step when all the required data is available the process sends a process ready command to the PRC and the Mux. Consequently at step the PRC updates the ICC with the main ICS data such as event ID ICS IP and ports list.

In the preferred embodiment of the invention the client applications include a a Web browser which is used to access the ICC browse the ICC catalog create events through the web user interface UI and access live events b Participant application which is launched by the web browser when accessing a live event where these applications connect to the ICS for the live data stream and use HTTP queries to retrieve information from the ICC such as for example the event information page that is displayed for every user that enters an event . c Outlook AddIn that enables users to schedule events from a Microsoft Outlook installed on their desktops. The Outlook AddIn uses internal calls over HTTP to establish the functionality of creating a new event setting the event attributes and registering users to the event. and d an optional Communications Gateway for allowing the user to register with new ICCs and access registered ICCs. The event closure procedure is implemented by each Px. The procedure receives from the Px the following parameters a ICC URL b file name to upload c protocol to use HTTP HTTPS d Proxy URL and e username and password. The procedure also uploads the recording and attendance report.

The present invention discloses a distributed apparatus for teleconferencing events wherein multiple servers cooperate in a single event thus providing participants with a closer or a faster responding server thus lowering the price or improving the response time of the servers. The connection between servers is dynamic and more servers may be added i.e. connected to an existing server when the number of participants increases beyond a certain limit. Alternatively one or more servers can be disconnected when participants leave the event. The present invention enables one or more participant in a teleconferencing event to connect through a phone either fixed or mobile and one or more participants to connect using a PC. PC users use the audio input and output of the computers to hear the audio data as heard by a phone user over the phone. Further the same user may see the video on the computer s display while hearing the audio and speaking over a telephone. Each participant receives the data that can be used by the device he is using. For example a PC user will receive video and audio data while a phone participant will receive only audio data. The PC of a user can have control over the phone of the user and issue for example a mute or unmute command to the phone.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the present invention is defined only by the claims which follow.

