---

title: Functional polymers via surface modifying agents
abstract: Polymers, and particularly conventional commodity bulk polymers, are modified to have a surface activity of interest using a surface modifying polymer that includes a moiety that favors migration to the surface of the bulk polymer together with a moiety provides the activity of interest (e.g., biocidal, wettability modifying (hydrophobic or hydrophilic), resistance to radiant energy, providing a functional group for functionalizing the surface, etc.). The surface modifying polymer is combined with the bulk polymer, and, due to the presence of the moiety that favors migration, concentrates primarily on the surface of the bulk polymer such that the moiety that provides the activity of interest is located primarily on the surface of the bulk polymeric article which is produced. Advantageously, only a minimal amount (such as, e.g., about 2 weight %) of polymeric surface modifier is needed. Being able to achieve desired properties (such as biocidal activity, wettability modification, etc.) without needing much polymeric surface modifier is highly advantageous.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07842388&OS=07842388&RS=07842388
owner: Virginia Commonwealth University
number: 07842388
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060314
---
This patent application is a continuation of Ser. No. 11 290 803 filed Dec. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 771 793 which is a continuation in part of Ser. No. 10 882 238 filed Jul. 2 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 396 590 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 60 485 494 filed Jul. 9 2003 and the complete contents of those applications are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made using grants from the U.S. Government particularly NSF 523279 DARPA 528979 and the government may have certain rights under the patent.

The present invention generally relates to a method for modifying the surface of conventional commodity polymers including without limitation polyurethanes polyesters polyethers polyamides polyimides etc.

Surface modification of a polymeric article is performed or attempted for a number of different reasons. For example it may be desirable to have a bulk polymer that has a surface that is modified to better accept a paint or dye or to have a surface that imparts a property such as resistance to chemical or radiant energy damage.

A number of different methods have been developed for modifying the surfaces of a polymer. Many of these methods involve post processing of the article. For example the polymeric article may be exposed to a plasma or a plasma processing step followed by grafting of compounds to the surface of the polymer. Also the polymeric article might be subjected to a chemical or radiant energy exposure to alter the surface. It is known to combine a fluorinated polymer with a conventional polymer to get the surface concentrated fluoropolymer. Ji Q. Kang H. Wang J. Wang S. Glass T. E. McGrath J. E. Surface characterization of fluorinated oxetane polyol modified polyurethane block copolymers Polymer Preprints 2000 41 346 347 Kim Y. S. Lee J. S. Ji Q. McGrath J. E. Surface properties of fluorinated oxetane polyol modified polyurethane block copolymers 2002 43 7161 7170. It is known that combining a fluorinated group with a UV absorbing chromophore surface concentrates the chromophore. Vogl O. Jaycox G. D. Hatada K. Macromolecular design and architecture Journal of Macromolecular Science Chemistry 1990 27 1781 1854. It is known that combining a perfluorohexyl group with a fullerene surface concentrates the fullerene at a styrene air interface. Chen W. McCarthy T. J. Adsorption migration of a perfluorohexylated fullerene from the bulk to the polymer air interface Macromolecules 1999 32 2342 2347. 

Certain work has occurred thus far on polymeric surface modifiers PSM . Chen W. McCarthy T. J. 1999 32 2342 2347 Ho T. Wynne K 1994 6 25 31 Ward R. S. White K. A. Hu C. B. in Planck H. Egbers G. Syre I. Eds. Elsevier Science Publishers Amsterdam 1984.

Surfaces have been made hydrophobic using PDMS PSMs. Ho Wynne supra Ratner B. D. Yoon S. C. Kaul A. Rahman R. in Planck H. Syre I. Dauner M. Egbers G. Eds. Elsevier New York 1986 Vol. 3 pp. 213 229 Tezuka Y. Fukushima A. Matsui S. Imai K. 1986 114 16 25. Surfaces have been made hydrophobic and oleophobic with fluorinated PSMs. Malik A. A. Carlson R. P. Aerojet General Corporation US 1997 p. 20 Thomas R. R. Anton D. R. Graham W. F. Darmon M. J. Sauer B. B. Stika K. M. Swartzfager D. G. 1997 30 2883 2890 Thomas R. R. Ji Q. Kim Y. S. Lee J. S. McGrath J. E. 2000 2000 Thomas R. R. Anton D. R. Graham W. F. Darmon M. J. Stika K. M. 1998 31 4595 4604. In this work the modifying soft block usually consists of a single repeat as typified by polydimethylsiloxane PSMs where the repeat unit is CH SiO see Ho Wynne supra or surface modifiers derived from semifluorinated oxetane monomers that yield telechelics having a 3 3 substituted 1 3 propylene oxide repeat for example CHC CH CHOCHCF CHO see Kim Y. S. Lee J. S. Ji Q. McGrath J. E. 2002 43 7161 7170 .

There has been work regarding oxetane monomers. Synthesis of fluorinated oxetanes is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 037 483 to Malik et al. Polymers and prepolymers from mono substituted fluorinated oxetane monomers and U.S. Pat. No. 5 807 977 to Malik et al. Solvent free process for the preparation of mono substituted fluorinated oxetane monomers . There has been work regarding synthesis of polyurethanes containing fluorinated oxetanes having a 3 3 substituted 1 3 propylene oxide repeat . See Kim et al. 2002 supra.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 479 623 to Malik Archibald Carlson Wynne and Kresge issued Nov. 12 2002 titled Amorphous Polyether Glycols based on bis substituted oxetane copolymers. 

PCT Int. Application No. WO 2001 US44556 20011128 by Patel Mohajer Twomey Mares and Nelson Honeywell Int. Inc. Polymeric additives and polymeric articles comprising the additive. 

PCT Int. Application No. WO1994 US5999 by Sastri Mohajer Young Boyle Allied Signal Inc. Polydiorganosiloxane modified polymer and its preparation. 

It is therefore an object of the invention to provide polymeric articles or coatings and methods of making polymeric articles or coatings where the polymeric article has a surface phase having an activity of interest.

According to the invention there is provided a methodology for preparing polymer articles or coatings which have a surface phase with an activity of interest. It is understood that a telechelic is an oligomeric or polymeric material with reactive groups usually at the chain ends and may also be called a macromonomer. In the methodology a surface active telechelic or polymer is prepared which includes at least one or more functional segmers which provide an activity of interest e.g. biocide bioactive UV protective hydrophobic hydrophilic conducting etc. . When combined with bulk polymer the surface active segmers act as chaperones to bring the functional segmers to the surface of the polymeric article during processing e.g. creation of a coating extruding etc. . In one embodiment the surface modifying additive consists of one or more telechelics that contain fluorinated surface active segmers and functional segmers or one or more polyurethanes comprised of conventional hard block forming units diisocyanates and diols and or diamines and soft blocks that contain fluorinated surface active segmers and functional segmers. The surface active segmers bring the functional segmers to the surface and together these segmers constitute the functional surface active soft block of the surface modifiers SMs . To demonstrate a specific embodiment in a broad range of possible functional SMs biocidal SMs have been prepared by preparing polyurethane SMs comprised of isophorone diisocyanante butane diol hard blocks and soft blocks comprised of fluorinated segmers surface active combined with biocidal moieties function in soft blocks. After activation these SMs effectively kill pathogen challenges on contact demonstrating the efficacy of the SM concept. Additional examples demonstrate that SMs confer unusual wetting behavior on the substrate polymer. Such tailored change may find use in biomaterials filters cosmetics and other areas where surface properties such as feel and capability to attract moisture are important. It is understood in the context of this patent that the terms telechelic and macromonomer are used interchangeably. Furthermore it is understood that when a statement is made such as telechelic in the polyurethane that the terminal reactive groups present on the telechelic are no longer present but changed to appropriate functionality by virtue of incorporation e.g a urethane group if reaction occurs between an alcohol group on the telechelic with an isocyanate on the hard block .

Advantageously a desired chaperoning function may be achieved using a minimal amount of PSM. Also advantageously it has now been shown that surface activity can be achieved in the case of a co segment M Ox where M a methoxy terminated ethylene oxide side chain without needing a fluorinated segment. Being able to use very little of a surface active segmer while providing the desired surface activity is advantageous because the co segment lowers the glass transition temperature of the soft block and may thereby make the functional segment more effective.

In a preferred embodiment the invention provides a method of producing a polymeric article or coating with a surface active property comprising the steps of forming a surface active polymer or telechelic having at least a segmer which enables an activity of interest such as e.g. a segmer which comprises an alkylammonium moiety a segmer which is present on a soft block such as e.g. a soft block containing no fluorinated segment etc. and combining said surface active polymer with said bulk polymer to produce a polymeric article having the surface active polymer concentrated primarily on the surface of said bulk polymer such as e.g. a polymeric article or coating having a combination function selected from the group consisting of biocidal activity and contraphilic activity . Preferably in this inventive production method a polymeric article or coating is produced with adding a minimal amount of surface modifier of not more than 5 weight with about 2 weight being a preferred example of a minimal amount of surface modifier.

The invention in another preferred embodiment provides a polymeric article or coating comprising a bulk polymer phase such as e.g. a bulk phase including polyurethane and a surface active phase such as e.g. a surface active phase including polyurethane a surface active phase that comprises less than 10 percent by weight of said polymeric article or coating a surface active phase that comprises about 0.1 3 percent by weight of said polymeric article or coating etc. present at a surface said surface active phase comprising a surface active polymer or soft block having at least a segmer which enables an activity of interest such as e.g. biocidal activity altering surface wettability of said bulk polymer providing an indicator such as e.g. a color change indicator fluorescence indicator phosphorescence indicator chemiluminescence indicator etc. a modifiable leaving group conductivity etc. with preferred examples of such inventive polymeric articles or coatings being those in which said surface active polymer and said bulk polymer are both polyurethanes and polymeric articles or coatings lacking a fluorinated segment. Preferably only a minimal amount such as e.g. preferably less than about 5 weight such as about 2 weight of PSM is included in these inventive polymeric articles or coatings. In the inventive polymeric articles and coatings there may be an identity of monomeric units in said bulk polymer phase and said surface active phase. In a preferred example both the bulk polymer phase and the surface active phase include polyurethane in an inventive coating or polymeric article. Examples of the segmer which enables an activity of interest are e.g. a segmer that includes a hydantoin or hydantoin like moiety a segmer that includes a dye a segmer that includes a moiety that converts to siliceous functionalization in the presence of moisture such as e.g. a moiety OSi OR where R is a hydrolysable group such as e.g. methoxy ethoxy propoxy trifluoroethoxy acetoxy etc. a segmer that includes a biocidal moiety a segmer that includes a bioactive moiety a segmer that includes an alkylammonium moiety etc.

In another preferred embodiment the invention provides a contraphilic polymeric material which is hydrophilic when dry and hydrophobic when wet wherein the contraphilic polymeric material has a delta theta of at least about 10 degrees preferably a delta theta of at least about 20 degrees more preferably a delta theta of at least about 25 degrees even more preferably a delta theta of at least about 30 degrees wherein delta theta means difference between initial contact angle when dry hydrophilic and a contact angle when wet hydrophobic .

In another preferred embodiment the invention provides a method of making a contraphilic polymeric material comprising processing a bulk polyurethane with a minimal amount such as e.g. about 2 weight and preferably not more than about 5 weight of contraphilic polymeric surface modifier PSM .

The invention provides in another preferred embodiment a polymer material or coating comprising an isophorone diisocyanate butane diol hard block and soft blocks comprised of at least biocidal moieties.

Also the invention in a further preferred embodiment provides an oligomeric or polymeric detergent or surfactant comprising at least two of oleophilic groups hydrophilic groups and fluorous groups.

The invention in another preferred embodiment also provides novel monomers such as e.g. a monomer Hy4Ox 5 5 dimethyl 3 2 3 methyloxetan 3 yl methoxy ethyl imidazolidine 2 4 dione and a monomer MOx 3 methoxymethyl 3 methyloxetane and novel telechelics such as e.g. a telechelic copolymerized from Hy4Ox and MOx. The telechelics of this invention may be used e.g. to make novel antimicrobial PSMs.

The invention in another preferred embodiment also provides polyurethanes containing Hy4Ox MOx telechelics.

In other preferred embodiments the invention provides a polyurethane surface modifier comprising a a segmer comprising a C12 alkyl ammonium and b a segmer comprising Me2Ox and a polyurethane surface modifier comprising a a segmer comprising a C12 alkylammonium and b a segmer comprising 3FOx.

The general concept of a surface modification contemplated by the present invention is shown in . The objective is to modify the surface of a coating or molded object referred to generically as a polymeric article to include a surface domain which has a property of interest without affecting the bulk properties in the bulk domain .

The invention generally relates to polymeric additives that act to modify the surface properties of conventional commodity polymers. This is achieved by synthesis of polymeric surface modifiers SMs or PSMs sometimes referred to as surface modifier additives SMAs with a structure that favors migration to the surface of a bulk polymer. In particular the surface philic character of the SMs depends on the presence of a functional block which is preferably a soft block or flexible chain segment that contains a surface active segmer and a functional segmer. The approach leverages the general tendency of soft blocks to surface segregate the presence of surface active groups such as fluorinated groups inclusive of fully fluorinated or semifluorinated groups e.g. CH n CF mF CH n CF mH where n is typically 1 10 and m is typically 1 12 in the soft segment and the synergistic combination of surface philic soft blocks with a multiplicity of surface active groups. Fluorinated groups have been mentioned but it should be appreciated that fluorinated groups are not required in all inventive embodiments.

A general structure for such a soft block is shown in . The exact embodiment will depend on the commodity or bulk polymer chosen for modification. In particular an air philic group such as a semifluorinated group is combined in the soft block with one or more functional moieties and shown for exemplary purposes as function and function respectively. The telechelic may have reactive end groups which may polymerize with monomers for the purpose of incorporation into an SMA as shown in . The telechelic block is itself preferably a polymer where the number of repeat units is preferably more than one for each unit and most preferably ranging between 2 and 200 for each unit. The functional soft block may be used alone or incorporated in a segmented copolymer to effect the preparation of a new kind of SM. The SM is added to a commodity polymer or base polymer that has desired bulk properties. The resulting blend is represented schematically in . The SM determines the surface properties by virtue of concentration of the SM at the surface or air polymer interface as shown in during ordinary processing conditions such as coating or extrusion.

There are two general ways that an SM may be employed. One is literally as an additive. That is the SM is added to some substrate system such as a liquid or solid coating composition. A second way is to spray or coat an extremely thin film on an already formed object such as a filter e.g. the SM alone or with the bulk polymer are sprayed or coated onto the surface of a filter with the SM migrating to the surface of the coating . In either case the combination of properties provided by the soft block structure illustrated in will assure that the function of interest will be surface concentrated.

The SM of this invention is generated in different ways. One method starts with the synthesis of monomers with suitable functions the polymerization of monomers to co macromonomers co telechelics and the generation of an SM by incorporating the co macromonomers into a polymer. A second method involves the modification of an SM polymer to generate the desired functional SM.

With reference to the circle represents a cyclic monomer substrate R or Rpreferably represents a reactive functional group introduced in ring opening polymerization such as the hydroxy group OH or amino group NH P is the mole fraction of monomer containing function F1 A and B are polymer forming moieties such as isocyanates and alcohol terminated chain extenders reactive groups Rand R respectively for polyurethane formation for example isocyanates and amine terminated chain extenders for polyurethane urea formation for example or only monomer or polymer A might be needed e.g. a dicarboxylic acid for ester formation for example.

With reference to the SM may be generated by synthesizing monomers F1 and F2 F2 may itself be synthesized by similar procedures used for F1 and then copolymerizing the monomers. This creates a macromonomer having F1 and F2 functions and the macromonomer itself may be a soft block or polymer. In a preferred embodiment the macromonomer is incorporated into e.g. polymerized with or grafted on etc. another polymer at either or both of its end groups R to form the desired SM. See for example the creation of a copolymer with monomers A and B and the macromonomer containing F1 and F2 in . In the present invention either F1 or F2 must be a segmer which preferentially migrates to the surface of a polymer during casting extrusion coating etc. Once formed the macromonomer and or polymer containing the macromonomer which separately or together are the surface modifiers SM is mixed typically 2 by weight or less into a desired base polymer to give a solid with a modified surface as shown in .

Another example of Fn is a group that has protected functionality such as a Si OR group where for the alcoxy groups R CH nH where n 1 5 and includes Me Et isopropyl propyl etc. and acetato and other hydrolysable groups . By protected is meant that upon exposure to a suitable reagent a chemical change takes place that produces a new kind of functionality. In the case of Si OR exposure to moist air or mild acid produces the Si OH group which is hydrophilic and can undergo a crosslinking reaction to produce a siliceous domain by well known condensation reactions releasing water. This importance of this approach is that a Si OH group would normally not migrate to the air polymer interface as it is a high energy group that prefers to remain in the bulk.

The functional group F2 or F3 could be a trimethylsilyl or similar group such as an oligosiloxane CH n Si Me O mSiMe . This cotelechelic may have some unusual combination of hydrophobic oleophobic behavior as surface active groups such as semifluorinated groups F1 are oleophobic and hydrophobic but groups such as trimethylsilyl or oligo siloxane are only hydrophobic but not oleophobic .

In testing the new approach to surface functionalization contemplated by this invention the C Br group has been introduced as a model functionality and is described in detail in Example 1. Another group of macromonomers containing CHO CHCHO n has been prepared to test the surface modified additive approach of the present invention and is described in detail in Examples 2 and 3. Examples 1 2 and 3 fall into class I described by co monomers cotelechelic polyurethane SMA with cotelechelic derived soft block . Examples 4 and 5 describe a reaction on polymer approach as described in .

In one embodiment the SMs can be polyurethanes. Polyurethanes PU are used in a variety of applications and are an excellent model for the general application of the present invention because of their broad use and robust character. The general scheme for polyurethane surface modifiers is shown in where a bulk polyurethane is combined with a surface modifier which contains an active group a functional group and a compatibilizing hard block to yield a product with a functional group concentrated at the coating surface. In this specific embodiment of the general concept surface active chaperone and functional groups are incorporated into the soft block. This approach takes advantage of both surface concentration of soft blocks and surface philicity of fluorinated groups. Further details are provided in Examples 4 and 5.

The specific functionality incorporated in the soft block in Example 1 is a reactive C Br group. In Examples 2 and 3 a hydrophilic ethylene oxide moiety is introduced. In Example 4 a hydantoin 5 5 dimethylhydantoin is introduced which confers on the surface of the SMA itself unusual wetting behavior. In Example 5 the surface concentrated pre biocide depicted in is reacted with bleach to generate surface concentrated biocidal chloramide function. However it should be understood that a wide variety of functionalities that is groups other than the F3 prebiocidal hydantoin group could be used in the practice of this invention including without limitation the groups noted above.

In order to obtain surface active telechelics bearing reactive groups co telechelics containing semifluorinated and bromomethyl groups can be prepared. 3 bromomethyl 3 methyloxetane BrOx is readily available and offers a reactive group for subsequent derivitization. Co polymerization of BrOx with 3FOx CHCF and 5FOx CHCFCF is contemplated in this exemplary process. Using the FOx BrOx telechelics polyurethanes were prepared employing isophorone diisocyanate IPDI butane diol BD hard blocks. Most work was done using a 40 hard block polyurethane IPDI BD 40 3FOx BrOx 1 1 where 40 is percent hard block and 1 1 signifies the mole ratio of 3FOx to BrOx. Example 1 provides details.

As described in Example 5 the pre biocidal functional group 5 5 dimethylhydantoin Hy was introduced into by a reaction on polymer carried out in dimethyl formamide DMF . shows the resulting SM 36 as IPDI BD 3FOx BrOx HyOx 1 0.3 0.7 where HyOx is a substituted oxetane segmer containing the hydantoin moiety. This was combined with bulk polyurethane conventional IPDI BD PTMO 2000 40 hard block polyurethane at 2 wt SM 36 98 wt bulk polyurethane mixture. The coating thus formed included an SM domain and a bulk polyurethane domain . Evidence for the surface concentration of 2 SM 98 polyurethane came from Wilhelmy plate analysis and biocidal activity.

It will be understood that the concentration of the SM in the polymeric article or coating to be formed can vary depending on the application. It will typically constitute 10 or less by weight and most preferably 0.1 3 weight percent of the polymeric article or coating. Even lower percentages may be adequate depending on the application and the SM composition and processes. Some SMs are more efficient surface concentrators than others.

As will be discussed below this invention can be employed to make a biocidal SM such that a polymeric article or coating formed according to the invention has an underlying bulk polymer domain and a surface domain having a SM with biocidal activity. This might for example be especially useful in the hospital or clinic setting wherein gloves countertops examining tables surgical equipment and tools devices such as catheters wall paper surfaces of computer keyboards cellphones and pagers and cabinetry can have polymer coating that provides a biocidal activity. The biocidal activity may also be useful in other settings such as schools and offices where large numbers of people are gathered. The biocidal activity may be useful in modifying air filters by for example applying a microcoating on the filter material or creating the filter from the SM and bulk polymer mixture so as to not only trap pathogens or agents but to inactivate them.

It should be understood that the invention can be used to impart a surface domain to a bulk polymer where the surface domain has a variety of other desired activities. For example in automobile applications it may be desirable to apply a polymer coating where the surface domain repels water or corrosive agents. This would require forming an SM with functional group segmers that make the surface of the polymer coating more repellant to water e.g. combining both fluorinated groups F1 with trimethylsilylated or oligosiloxane groups F2 as noted above might be used. Conversely in paper or sign making applications where it is desirable to accept dyes colorants paints or the like the SM would be formed with functional group segmers that make the polymer coating more hydrophilic e.g. hydrophilic groups such as polyethylene oxide moieties e.g. CHO CHCHO n where n 0 15 alcohols such as CH nOH or where n 1 10 and or amines such as CH nNH where n 1 10 and their derived ammonium salts as CH nNH where n 1 10 chromophoric groups alkylammonium groups such as NH CH nH where n 1 20 and combinations libraries of these groups to generate surfaces with specialized wetting behavior properties.

As another example it may be desirable to provide a means for functionalizing the surface of the polymer with leaving groups e.g. Br such that the surface could be derivatized with compounds of interest. In this instance the invention may allow the formation of diagnostic chips that have DNA RNA amino acids amino acid sequences or other biological materials of interest bonded to the surface of a polymer coating by way of interaction with the functional leaving group.

As yet another example the surface of a polymer can include a functional segmer which enables a fluorescent phosphorescent chemiluminescent or color change reaction to occur when the functional segmer is in contact with a particular agent. This property would find sensing detection utility in diagnostic devices as well as in applications such as signs and displays. In still another application of the invention fiber optics can be extruded where the surface of the optic includes the surface active agent which thus encircles the core. For example in the fiber optic application the surface modifier might prevent UV or other radiant energy from transmission to the core or by virtue of interaction with the evanescent surface wave might act as an optical sensor detector.

In the exemplary case of a biocidal SM Example 5 the SM was prepared via the method shown in wherein A and B together represent a hard block in a polyurethane PU derived from isophorone diisocyanate A and butane diol B . The low Tg block is a copolymer where F1 is a fluorinated group 3 FOx and F2 is a bromomethyl group. In this case not all the bromomethyl groups are replaced by biocide precursor 5 5 dimethylhydantoin F3 so that the resulting SM has three repeat units F1 the fluorinated group F2 the unreplaced bromomethyl groups and F3 the pre biocidal moiety 5 5 dimethylhydantoin . The resulting SM has been added to a base polyurethane treated with bleach to generate the biocidal N Cl group N halamine and tested against several pathogens. N halamines are discussed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 469 177 to Worley which is herein incorporated by reference. As discussed in detail in Example 5 in 30 min exposure 99.999 or 5.2 log reduction of was observed against a suitable control. This sets a minimum for biocidal activity as no surviving bacteria were found after exposure to the SM modified PU. Similar results were obtained for and

The synthesis and characterization of nonionic detergents is well known. Such molecules have an amphiphilic structure. That is one end of the molecule may be hydrophilic while the other end is oleophilic. Molecules that have one hydrocarbon end one poly ethylene oxide end are examples. The bifunctional telechelics described herein may find use as polymeric nonionic detergents. For example the block telechelics described in Example 2 have a fluorocarbon end hydrophobic oleophobic and an oligomeric ethylene oxide end hydrophilic . Such architecture is uncommon. This architecture would mediate between fluorocarbon like and water like phases. For example such a detergent might be useful in emulsifying materials that are insoluble in water supercritical CO or other solvent. Such a structure could prevent phase separation between immiscible polymers.

Even the random copolymer may be useful as a nonionic detergent because of the extreme difference solubility parameter between fluorinated substituents that can be widely varied and hydrophilic side chains that can also be widely varied . This application would be novel for all binary and ternary combinations of 

Oleophilic groups such as CH nH tetramethylene oxide isomeric hydrocarbon and hydrocarbon halocarbon CHxCl H ketone containing side chains Hydrophilic groups such as aforementioned oligomeric and polymeric ethylene oxide alcohol carboxylic acid amine containing side chains Fluorous groups such as those aforementioned e.g. CH n CF mF CH n CF mH where n is typically 1 10 and m is typically 1 12 .

In view of the contemplation of use of molten salts as reaction media and other applications for amphiphilic and even triphilic molecules molecules with cationic typically alkyl ammonium or anionic typically carboxylate sulfate sulfonate phophonate functionality are readily envisaged and could be used in combination with oleophilic hydrophilic and fluorous groups described above.

Homo and copolymerization of BrOx and FOx monomers were carried out by a modification of the procedure reported by Malik. Malik A. A. Archibald T. G. GenCorp US 2000. Cationic ring opening polymerization was employed with BFdietherate and 1 4 butanediol as catalyst and co catalyst respectively to give the desired telechelic. A typical procedure follows.

Copolymerization of 3 trifluoroethoxy 3 methyloxetane 3FOx and 3 bromomethyl 3 methyloxetane BrOx monomers were carried out by a modification of a published procedure. Cationic ring opening polymerization was employed using BFOEtand 1 4 butanediol as catalyst and co catalyst respectively. Methylene chloride 5.54 ml was poured into a round bottom flask under nitrogen. 1 4 butanediol 0.77 g 8.54 mmol and BFOEt 2.45 g 17.27 mmol were added into reaction medium and stirred at room temperature for 45 min under nitrogen purge. Then the solution was cooled to 20 C. by using dry aqueous isopropyl alcohol mixture. Mixture of 3FOx and BrOx monomers e.g. total 30.09 g 172.43 mmol in methylene chloride 42.10 ml was added drop wise with an addition rate of 170 drops min. The reaction temperature was kept at 25 to 30 C. by addition of extra dry ice for 5 hrs. The reaction mixture was then brought to room temperature and quenched with 50 ml of water. The organic phase was separated washed with 2 wt aqueous HCl and NaCl solutions and then precipitated into methanol water mixture 5 1 . The precipitated macromonomer was placed into vacuum oven for overnight drying at 50 C. 4 Torr. The product was viscous slightly opaque with more than 85 yield.

A number of FOx BrOx telechelics were made by a similar procedure. The compositions and molecular weights are shown in Table 1 below 

Molecular weights were obtained by integrating the high field methylene peaks next to the trifluoroacetyl group at 4.2 4.3 ppm and methyl peaks in FOx at 0.92 ppm CH FOx and BrOx at 1.05 ppm CH BrOx . Table 1 lists telechelic molecular weights determined by end group analysis. In previous reports homotelechelic molecular weights were determined by integrating the low field methyl peaks due to terminal residues and the main chain ones Malik A A. Carlson R. P. U.S. Pat. No. 5 637 772 1997 which is herein incorporated by reference . Molecular weights were determined by GPC in THF compared to PS standards for those telechelics not having a refractive index matching THF. The observed values for Mw and Mn Table 1 fn. values give the following polydispersities 1.58 for BrOx 2.04 for 3FOx BrOx 1 2 and 1.35 for 5FOx BrOx 1 2. These values are similar to those previously reported for 3FOx and 5FOx polyoxetane telechelics polymerized using the BFTHF neopentyl glycol catalyst co catalyst system. Kausch C. M. Leising J. E. Medsker R. E. Russell V. M. Thomas R. R Malik A. A. Synthesis characterization and unusual surface activity of a series of novel architecture water dispersible poly fluorooxetane s Langmuir 2002 18 5933 38 

Thermal analysis. Standard and temperature modulated DSC MDSC starting from sub ambient temperatures were used to measure the telechelic T Table 2 . MDSC experiments were performed at a heating rate of 3 C. min with a modulation temperature of 0.5 C. min. It is important to note that all telechelics have low glass transition temperatures characteristic of polyols used as soft blocks in polyurethanes.

Polyurethanes containing FOx BrOx soft blocks. A number of SM polyurethanes were synthesized. The compositions are summarized in Table 3. In designating compositions such as IPDI BD 40 3FOx BrOx 1 1 4700 the hard block composition is followed with hard block wt in parentheses. The soft block segmers are next followed by their mole ratio and Mn in parenthesis. The segmented PUs were synthesized in a conventional two step procedure as shown in Scheme 2. First an excess of IPDI was added to telechelic. When all the alcohol groups were consumed BD chain extender was added until no isocyanate absorption was detectable by FT IR. As the viscosity increased DMF or THF DMF was added so that the solution contained about 30 40 solids at the end of the reaction. PUs having different concentrations of soft block can be obtained simply by changing the ratio of telechelic to chain extender 1 4 butanediol ratio.

The hard segment concentration was utilized was 40 45 wt . PUs having lower hard block content 25 35 are mechanically very soft while those with higher hard block content 45 60 are rigid. The hard block content in an SM application could thus be varied to optimize compliance with the substrate polymer.

Representative FOx BrOx polyurethane synthesis. A typical synthesis is represented by the synthesis for IPDI BD 40 3FOx BrOx 1 1 4700 . The polyurethane PU was synthesized in 3 neck round bottom flask. Oxetane polyol 3FoxBrOx 1 1 9.23 g 1.92 mmol was introduced into the flask with isophorone diisocyanate IPDI 4.44 g 19.97 mmol . Dimethyl formamide DMF 3.13 g was added into the reaction mixture as solvent. The initial solid was 81 . The solution was heated and stirred with an over head stirrer under nitrogen purge and with condenser. 7 drops of dibutyltin dilaurate catalyst T 12 1 wt in toluene was added to reaction medium when the reaction temperature was 65 70 C. The mixture was stirred for 3 hours at this temperature range. The reaction was followed by FT IR. After 3 hours the prepolymer was ready for chain extension. 1 4 butane diol BD 1.61 g 17.87 mmol was used as chain extender. The reaction was frequently diluted with DMF as the polymer molecular weight increases. Chain extension took place at the same temperature range 65 70 C. . The reaction was followed with FT IR. The reaction continued until all the isocyanate NCO was consumed. The final PU has slightly yellow color and the final concentration of the mixture was 43 . The resulting PU was then precipitated into methanol for purification. The solution cast PU films were prepared.

Table 3 provides compositions molecular weights and DSC information. We were not able to synthesize a 5FOx homo telechelic polyurethane. The reaction mixture phase separated during the chain extension apparently due to the different solubility parameters of 5FOx.

Molecular weights. Molecular weights and polydispersities of the new polyurethanes are shown in Table 3. GPC analyses gave Ms in the range of 30 60 000. With one exception Ms for the FOx BrOx polyurethanes have somewhat lower Ms compared to the conventional PTMO analog. While molecular weights are modest all the polyurethanes formed smooth optically transparent coatings and freestanding films.

Wetting Behavior. Polyurethane wetting behavior was determined by the Wilhelmy plate method using a Dynamic Contact Angle Analyzer DCA . The Wilhelmy plate experiment has been discussed in connection with the measurement of intrinsic contact angles for model PDMS networks. Uilk J. M. Mera A. E. Fox R. B. Wynne K. J. Hydrosilation cured poly dimethylsiloxane networks Intrinsic contact angles via dynamic contact angle analysis Macromolecules 2003 36 3689 3694. Remarkably all of the co telechelic polyurethanes have higher and lower than the parent homo telechelic PUs Table 4 .

The most surprising result for PU co telechelics 116 32 is the wetting behavior of PU 4 IPDI BD 40 3FOx BrOx 1 1 4700 . These values are constant over three cycles and no water contamination is detected. The very stable contact angle hysteresis 84 is noteworthy for topologically smooth surfaces vida infra . Few polymers have that exceed 116 .

Surface Modifying Behavior. IPDI BD 40 3FOx BrOx 1 1 4700 2 was added to an ordinary IPDI BD polyurethane containing a 2000 MW poly tetramethylene oxide soft block. X ray photoelectron spectroscopy demonstrated surface concentration of the SM by virtue of Br and F analysis that was similar to IPDI BD 40 3FOx BrOx 1 1 4700 alone. These results demonstrate the efficacy of surface concentration of the reactive C Br function. That is a function which contains a Br leaving group that allows modification of the polymer after formation of the polymeric article or coating.

Monomer synthesis. 3 Methoxyethoxyethoxymethyl 3 methyloxetane ME2Ox was synthesized using phase transfer catalysis PTC . A mixture of 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethanol 60.1 g 0.5 mol BrOx 82.5 g 0.5 mol TBAB 8.0 g 0.025 mol and water 20 ml was stirred and heated to 75 C. Then a solution of KOH 35.5 g 87 0.55 mol in water 50 ml was added. The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously at 80 85 for 7 hrs. The mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered and diluted with water. The product was extracted with methylene chloride and distilled at 100 C. 8 mmHg. ME2Ox monomer H NMR CDCl 3.67 CH 3H s 3.39 OCH3H s 3.55 OCHCHO 4H m 3.67 OCHCHO 4H and CH 2H m 4.35 ring CH 2H d 4.52 ring CH 2H d C NMR CDCl 21.5 CH 40.0 C 659.1 OCH 70.7 71.1 and 72.1 OCHCHO 76.6 CH 80.2 ring CH .

7FOx monomer was prepared from BrOx and 2 2 3 3 4 4 4 heptafluorobutanol by the same procedure used for ME2Ox monomer. 7 FOx monomer H NMR CDCl 1.31 CH 3H s 3.67 CH 2H s 3.99 CHCF 2H t 4.34 ring CH 2H d 4.50 ring CH 2H d .

Homo and Cotelechelic polyoxetane synthesis. Homo and copolymerization of ME2Ox and FOx monomers were carried out by a modification of a published procedure for FOx and methyloxetane. Malik A. A. Archibald T. G. GenCorp US 2000. The ME2Ox homotelechilic has not been previously synthesized and is a new composition of matter. Of course all co telechelics are new compositions. Cationic ring opening polymerization 3 bromomethyl 3 was employed using BFand 1 4 butanediol as catalyst and co catalyst respectively. Methylene chloride 10 ml was poured into a round bottom flask under nitrogen. 1 4 butanediol 165 mg 1.84 mmol and BF OEt 520 mg 3.67 mmol in methylene chloride 10 ml were added and stirred at room temperature for 45 min under nitrogen. Then the solution was cooled to 0 5 C. in ice bath and a mixture of ME2Ox and FOx monomers e.g. total 36.7 mmol in methylene chloride 10 ml was added dropwise at the rate of 0.5 ml min. The reaction was kept at 0 5 C. for 4 hrs with stirring. The reaction mixture was then brought to room temperature and quenched with 30 ml of water. The organic phase was separated washed with 0.2 HCl and NaCl aqueous solution and then solvent was evaporated. The product a viscous opaque liquid was re dissolved in acetone and re precipitated in water. The resulting viscous liquid was separated and dried in a vacuum oven at 70 C. 5 Torr overnight to give a transparent oily product with 80 yield.

ME2Ox homopolymer H NMR CDCl 0.91 CH 3H s 3.19 backbone CH 4H m 3.30 CH 2H s 3.38 OCH3H s 3.55 OCHCHO 4H m 3.64 OCHCHO 4H m C NMR CDCl 17.3 17.9 CH 40.8 41.3 backbone C 58.9 OCH 70.4 and 71.9 OCHCHO 670.9 71.3 CH 74.0 backbone CH .

ME2Ox 5FOx ME2Ox 7FOx copolymer H NMR CDCl 0.91 CHfor ME2Ox and FOx 3H s 63.19 backbone CH 4H m 63.30 CH for ME2Ox 2H s 3.38 OCH3H s 3.44 CH for FOx 2H s 3.55 OCHCHO 4H m 3.64 OCHCHO 4H m 3.85 CHCF 2H t C NMR CDCl 16.9 17.8 CHfor ME2Ox and FOx 40.8 41.5 backbone C 58.6 OCH 68.0 CHCF t 70.4 and 71.9 OCHCHO 70.9 71.3 CH for ME2Ox 73.4 backbone CH for FOx 74.0 backbone CH for ME2Ox 75.3 CH for FOx 110.0 123.3 CFCF .

Table 5 lists the molar ratios of monomer feed as well as the compositions of polymers. Monomer 1 4 butanediol ratios were varied in order to make polyoxetanes with differing molecular weights. The degree of polymerization D and equivalent molecular weight are determined by end group analysis as described above. The BF OEt 1 4 butanediol ratio was kept constant at 2.2 1 and in all compositions in Table 5 the reactions were done under nitrogen atmosphere with a temperature at 0 5 C. Monomer ratios in copolymer telechelics are very close to feed ratios.

GPC results are also listed in Table 5. The number average molecular weights M correlate well with end group analysis results for ME2Ox homo and ME2Ox FOx copolymers but show higher values for 5FOx homopolymer. The molecular distribution has a trend that the polydispersity M M decreases as monomer co catalyst ratio increases for all polymer series. When the monomer co catalyst ratio is above 22 the polydispersities are 1.9 2.2. As shown in Table 5 the Dof polymer is not directly related to the monomer co catalyst ratios.

Thermal analysis. Glass transition temperatures T s of the polyoxetanes were measured using sub ambient DSC. Table 6 shows Tof ME2Ox and FOx homopolymers and their copolymers. ME2Ox homopolymer has the lowest T 67 C. close to the Tof PTMO ca 70 C. .

where wand ware weight fraction of each component. Using wand wand homopolymer Ts Tis 54 C. for ME2Ox 5FOx 1 1 . Similarly Tof ME2Ox 7FOx 1 1 and ME2Ox 7FOx 2 1 are 58 and 60 C. respectively.

As a further example for synthesis of telechelics FOx MEnOx telechelics were prepared where n 3 or 7. The purpose of this synthetic work was to provide F 2 F 3 groups that would have a more hydrophilic character. In short using ring opening polymerization as described above polyoxetane telechelics with hydrophobic semifluorinated and hydrophilic oligoalkylether pendant groups have been synthesized with random and block sequences. Polyurethanes incorporating these novel telechelics as soft blocks have also been prepared. For the first time the effect of soft block sequence distribution on polyurethane surface morphology and wetting behavior has been demonstrated. TM AFM reveals surface nanophase separation for the polyurethane containing a block oxetane co telechelic while the polyurethane containing a random oxetane soft block shows no surface microstructure. Wetting behavior is strongly influenced by the surface nanoscale morphology. This observation suggests that surface nanostructure must be taken into account for demanding applications such as those requiring biocompatibility or smart behavior.

The reaction mechanism of cationic ring opening polymerization ROP of oxetane monomers using boron trifluoride BF has seen considerable study and the general features are known as described above. In the present work modified reaction conditions were used to give telechelics having different monomer sequences. The goal of this work was to learn whether monomer sequence distribution would affect surface properties of derived polyurethanes.

The oxetane monomer 3 2 5 8 11 tetraoxydodecyl 3 methyloxetane ME3Ox a new compound was synthesized from tri ethylene glycol monomethyether and 3 bromomethyl 3 methyloxetane BrOx . Copolymerization of ME3Ox and 3 trifluoroethoxymethyl 3 methyloxetane 3FOx were carried out by cationic ring opening polymerization using BFand butane diol co catalysts. For the preparation of block copolyoxetane ME3Ox block 3FOx ME3Ox monomer was added to catalyst at 0 C. for 4 hrs. Then a dilute solution CHCl of 3FOx monomer was added dropwise slowly over 24 hrs. The reaction mixture was stirred more 12 hrs then quenched with water and the product isolated.

To obtain a blocky type copolymer monomer addition order and addition speed were varied. When 3FOx monomer was polymerized first in the presence of BF OEtand butane diol BD cocatalysts and the second monomer ME3Ox was added a mixture of homo telechelics as a two phase liquid mixture was obtained. Interestingly when ME3Ox was added as the first monomer followed by 3FOx the product was a one phase viscous liquid indicating formation of a block copolymer telechelic . After the reaction of first monomer ME3Ox Mn determined by end group analysis with trifluoroacetic anhydride is 2 600. Then after slow addition of second monomer 3FOx Mn 4 200 for the final telechelic. A parallel increase in Mw by GPC was obtained. Table 7 contains compositions and characterization data.

GPC molecular weight determinations on telechelics usually showed the presence of a peak corresponding to cyclic tetramers. Malik A. A. Archibald T. G. GenCorp US 2000 The percent cyclics present in the present work 0 20 is not reproducible. Samples examined by DSC and F NMR contained cyclics but the qualitative conclusions are deemed valid. Furthermore once telechelics are used to prepare PUs cyclics are removed by purification procedures as the telechelics are nonfunctional and relatively nonpolar.

To investigate structural differences F NMR spectra were obtained. The 3FOx CF peaks in block and random copolymers shift to low field relative to 3FOx homopolymer. A similar small chemical shift is observed when ME3Ox homopolymer is admixed with 3FOx homopolymer solutions indicating the shift for copolymers is largely a solvent effect. A comparison of the relative peak shapes is revealing. Homo and block telechelics show a series of well resolved peaks with J 8 Hz. In contrast the random copolymer peak is broad with little resolvable structure. This observation supports the hypothesis that the random telechelic is comprised of random sequences with many sequence distributions. In contrast the block co telechelic contains 3 FOx sequences that mimic those in the homo telechelic. Hence 3FOx and ME3Ox block 3FOx telechelics have similar F NMR spectra.

Polyurethanes were prepared using polyoxetane telechelics or a reference PTMO soft segment as described above for ME2Ox and FOx BrOx telechelics. In brief methylenediphenyldiisocyanate MDI and butane diol BD were used for hard segment with ME3Ox 3FOx copolymer soft segment. Polyurethanes were prepared via solution reaction in dimethylacetoamide DMAc using a two step method first MDI plus soft block telechelic second BD chain extender . Poly tetramethylene oxide PTMO M 2 000 was used as soft block for a standard segmented polyurethane as a control sample.

Tapping mode AFM TM AFM is a powerful method for evaluating polymer surface morphology. show TM AFM images of PU films containing PTMO PU 3 ME3Ox ran 3FOx copolymer PU 1 and ME3Ox block 3FOx copolymer PU 2 . The surfaces of all films are topologically quite flat with RMS roughness R less than 1 nm. Phase images of the three films are clearly different . Although tapping forces are relatively weak A A 0.83 0.92 phase images for PU 3 and PU 2 show strong contrast characteristic of nanoscale phase separation.

The surface of PU 3 has phase separation on the order of 10 nm due to the hard and soft segments as shown schematically. This typical PU phase segregation has been observed previously. Garrett J. T. Siedlecki C. A. Runt J. Macromolecules 2001 34 7066 7070 The phase image of PU 1 containing the ME3Ox ran 3FOx telechelic is featureless . This is consistent with a surface structure where the random soft block predominates. With increased tapping force A A 0.5 0.6 a phase separated structure appears in the phase image data not shown reflecting the presence of sub surface hard blocks.

In contrast TM AFM of PU 2 containing the block soft segment shows strong nano phase separation that is attributed to two block domains viz. ME3Ox and 3FOx. We use a conventional interpretation of modulus sensitive phase images at light tapping where the lighter color portions are assigned to the organized domain in this case 3FOx. Uilk 2002 533 The average domain size is about 20 nm in diameter larger than the hard and soft segment segregation observed in PU 3 . The observed phase separation must reflect the immiscibility of the 3FOx and ME3Ox block segments in the liquid phase as the blocks are 75 C. 3FOx and 100 C. ME3Ox above T.

The interesting difference in nanoscale surface phase separation for PUs containing random and block co telechelics is reflected in contrasting wetting behavior. For evaluation of surface wetting properties dynamic contact angle DCA analysis by the Wilhelmy plate method was used as described in Uilk J. M. Mera A. E. Fox R. B. Wynne K. J. Macromolecules 2003 36 3689 3694. The RMS roughness R is less than 1 nm for all coatings. Thus surface roughness cannot contribute to advancing or receding contact angles or contact angle hysteresis delta .

As a point of reference PU 3 containing the PTMO soft segment was examined. PU 3 has a of 93 and of 49 . From previous work Lamba N. M. K. Woodhouse K. A. Cooper S. L. In Polyurethanes in Biomedical Applications CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1998 p 15. and our experience and delta 440 are fairly typical values for PTMO PUs. The moderate delta . 44 is largely attributed to rapid surface reorganization of the low TPTMO soft block though TM AFM suggests there may be a near surface hard block contribution as well.

One approach to analysis of chemically heterogeneous surfaces using wetting behavior is to compare an AB surface to that of A and B alone. Several well known methods exist to analyze nonideality responsible for surface behavior. Here we use a qualitative comparison of cotelechelic PUs with corresponding homo telechelic PUs. Homo telechelic compositions and contact angles are MDI BD 29 3FOx 110 70 MDI BD 37 ME3Ox 93 32 .

Analysis of PU 1 containing the ME3Ox ran 3FOx soft segment gave 104 39 and delta 65 . The PU 1 surface is hydrophobic in air due to fluorinated groups with similar to the PU 3FOx homopolymer. However PU 1 is hydrophilic in water 39 with a receding contact angle closer to ME3Ox PU 32 than to 3FOx PU 70 . Clearly extensive surface reorganization occurs in water favoring hydrophilic ether side groups at the water polymer interface. The result is a very large contact angle hysteresis.

For PU 2 containing ME3Ox block 3FOx 106 is also close to adv for the PU 3FOx homopolymer. In this regard PU 2 and PU 1 are similar. However 56 is 17 higher than PU 1 39 resulting in a smaller contact angle hysteresis for PU 2 50 compared to PU 1 65 . This result indicates the PU 2 surface is hydrophobic in air like the PU 3FOx homopolymer and only moderately hydrophilic in water more like the PU 3FOx homopolymer than PU ME3Ox. Clearly the nanophase separated PU 2 surface structure is more hydrophobic overall than the corresponding random soft block surface. This amplification of hydrophobicity occurs for PU 2 even though the fluorinated nano domains do not cover the whole surface TM AFM . Over the limited time scale investigated thus far the self assembly responsible for fluorinated surface nanodomains apparently inhibits access of a significant fraction of near surface more hydrophilic polyether side chains to water.

This Example demonstrates for the first time the effect of soft block sequence distribution on surface morphology and wetting behavior. Surface nanophase separation is observed for PU 2 which contains a block oxetane co telechelic while PU 1 which contains a random oxetane co telechelic shows no surface microstructure. Interestingly wetting behavior is strongly influenced by nanoscale surface morphology. This observation suggests that surface nanostructure must be taken into account for demanding applications such as those that require biocompatibility or smart behavior.

Surface Activity of MeNOx FOx polyurethanes. While the surface properties of the SM s are interesting by themselves a key question is will surface properties be conferred to a substrate polymer . shows a striking example of conferring surface properties to a substrate polymer. Here only 2 MDI BD ME3Ox ran 3FOx 1 1 PU 1 and 2 MDI BD ME3 block 3FOx 1 1 PU 2 respectively are added to a typical base polyurethane MDI BD 36 PTMO. unequivocally shows that the phase separated nanoscale morphology of MDI BD ME3Ox block 3F 1 1 PU 2 seen in is conferred at a 2 loading level to the conventional MDI BD 36 PTMO polyurethane. Wetting behavior on the 2 modified material shown only for the parent PU 2 is similar to the parent PU 2 and confirms that the SM PU 2 is surface concentrated. Furthermore X ray photoelectron spectroscopy confirms the presence of a high level of fluorine in the top 30 nm consistent with a high 3FOx like concentration.

In contrast at a loading of 2 PU 1 MDI BD ME3Ox ran 3FOx 1 1 loading level to the conventional MDI BD 36 PTMO polyurethane a relatively featureless nanoscale morphology is seen as for the parent MDI BD 27 ME3Ox ran 3FOx 11 1 PU 1 . Wetting behavior on the 2 modified material shown only for the parent PU 1 is similar to the parent PU 1 and confirms that the SM PU 1 is surface concentrated. Furthermore X ray photoelectron spectroscopy confirms the presence of an intermediate level of fluorine in the top 30 nm consistent with a higher functional group F2 hydrophilic MEnOx concentration.

These results are of the utmost importance in demonstrating that the SM indeed modifies the surface of the commodity like conventional MDI BD 36 PTMO polyurethane. Importantly the wetting behavior of the conventional MDI BD 36 PTMO polyurethane is modified by 2 incorporation of the SMs in the manner expected data not shown .

Reaction on polymer example substitution of 5 5 dimethyl hydantoin Hy onto IPDI BD 40 3FOx BrOx 1 1 4700 PU 4 from Example 1 Table 3. The substitution reaction was carried out in dimethyl formamide DMF . 5 5 Dimethyl hydantoin DMH 2.55 g 19.90 mmol was introduced into 3 neck round bottom flask with DMF 15.30 g . Then potassium carbonate KCO 11.06 g 80.02 mmol was added into the medium. KCOis not soluble in DMF it was suspended in the solvent. The mixture was heated and stirred stirring bar under nitrogen purge and with condenser for 1 hour. Then PU 12.27 g 0.26 mmol in DMF 21.01 g was added to reaction medium drop wise. The reaction temperature was kept around 90 95 C. for 42 hours. The reaction was then terminated by cooling to room temperature. The mixture was precipitated into methanol water 4 1 solution in order to get the final product. The resulting polyurethane was precipitated out of the solution. The degree of substitution and final yield was obtained by NMR about 70 .

This polyurethane SM is designated in . We refer to the material obtained by treatment of a coating of alone with bleach as 36B. We refer to the composition obtained by adding 2 to the bulk PU . First we consider the remarkable properties of alone.

As shown in coatings designated as in have unexpectedly unprecedented wetting behavior. All prior art demonstrates that polymers exposed to water either have no change in wetting behavior e.g. polyethylene polypropylene poly tetrafluoroethylene due to total lack of interaction with water or else become apparently more hydrophilic. The latter behavior is found for polymers that have some interaction with water such as nylons and polyurethanes. Pike J. K. Ho T. Wynne K. J. Water induced surface rearrangements of poly dimethylsiloxane urea urethane segmented block copolymers Chemistry of Materials 1996 8 856 860. 

As shown in a coating of 36 becomes more hydrophobic when dipped in water or if dry initially becomes more hydrophobic if exposed to a humid atmosphere. shows a procedure devised to demonstrate the new contraphilic behavior. shows the Wilhelmy plate data and for simplicity the visually determined wetting behavior using the conventional sessile drop method. In this case a picture of the drop was taken on a separate but identical sample at important points in the procedure to illustrate the unprecedented contraphilic behavior.

Stage 1. With reference to Stage 1 is the first contact of water with the coating. Observation of the shape of the drop with the contact angle less than 90 degrees illustrates that the coating is hydrophilic. This is quantitatively determined 82 deg from the Wilhelmy plate data and is obtained as shown in from the first time the coating is immersed in liquid water.

Stage 2. The coating is withdrawn from water. The low receding contact angle that is seen visually as the drop is withdrawn into the syringe can be calculated quantitatively from the Wilhelmy receding force distance curve about 40 deg .

Stage 3. The coating is re immersed in water. Remarkably the advancing contact angle has increased to over 100 . This is easily seen visually in the picture of the drop re impinging on the same surface already wetted by water in Stage 1. The change in the wetting behavior is quantitatively measured by the Wilhelmy advancing force distance curve 108 . Again a coating becoming more hydrophilic when simply immersed in ambient temperature water is unprecedented. Furthermore the change is not just a few degrees but 10 s of degrees and is clearly visible.

Stage 4. When the coated slide is immersed further than the original depth the Wilhelmy plate curve suddenly changes. Suddenly water is impinging on a surface that has not seen liquid water. The wetting behavior changes back to hydrophilic as seen in Stage 1. This change is easily observed visually. When the circumference of the drop re impinging on the surface exceeds the circumference originally wetted the contact angle of the drop changes from greater than 90 degrees hydrophobic to less than 90 hydrophilic .

If the coating is dried in an oven 60 C. hydrophilic behavior is once more seen and the contraphilic behavior is reinstated. If the coating is kept at ambient humidity and temperatures the wetting behavior depends on humidity.

Because the change in wetting behavior is observed by testing the coating in water the receding contact angle is always the same.

Contraphilic behavior is a completely new phenomenon. Again surprisingly preliminary evidence suggests that certain of the HyOx FOx polyurethanes are contraphilic particularly polyurethanes modified with 2 HyOx 3FOx. shows clearly the contraphilic behavior of 2.0 wt IPDI BD P 3FOx HyOx BrOx 1.0 0.65 0.35 SM added to the conventional polyurethane 98 wt to the IPDI BD PTMO PU Hard Block 40 wt .

Example 5 is an extension of the reaction on polymer approach of Example 4 to create a biocidal surface by means of an SM. In this example SM 36 is added to a substrate polyurethane sometimes referred to as a base PU and the surface is exposed to hypochlorite dilute bleach as shown in . The resulting coating is biocidal by virtue of the presence of the biocidal SM.

Preparation of Blends and Biocidal Coatings. Polyurethane blends containing 2 wt dimethylhydantoin DMH substituted PU 36 and 98 wt conventional polyether PTMO PU were prepared in tetrahydrofuran THF . The sample films for anti bacterial tests were prepared by simply dip coating glass cover slips Corning 24 40 1.2 mm and distributing the polyurethane evenly over both sides. The samples were placed in an upright position at ambient conditions for 24 hours and in the oven overnight at 60 C. under reduced pressure. The resulting films were transparent with no visible roughness.

Anti bacterial Tests For anti bacterial activity tests a modified version of AATCC 100 method was employed. schematically shows the testing procedures. The coated cover glass slides were soaked into a solution of free chlorine 50 Clorox solution containing 3 sodium hypochlorite for 1 hour. Then they were rinsed with deionized D.I. water and placed into vacuum for overnight 60 C. 4 Torr . A known volume of inoculum containing bacteria e.g. at a concentration of about 10 10CFU Colony Forming Units ml was used for biocidal test. Slides of base PU PTMO based PU were used as control. The initial bacteria inoculum was diluted with saline solution 10 folds . So this aqueous suspension contains 106 107 CFU ml of bacteria. 1 microliter of this suspension was placed into surface of the coated glass slide. The slide was then sandwiched with an identical slide. For complete contact the sandwich was squeezed and a weight beaker was placed on the top. After different contact times 1 1.5 and 2 hours the entire sandwich system was placed into aqueous sodium thiosulfate 10 ml 0.03 wt solution. The resultant solution was then shaken for 5 min. An aliquot of the solution was then serially diluted 3 times and 100 microliters of each dilution was plated on to a nutrient agar plate. Bacterial colonies on the agar plates were counted after incubation at 37 C. for 24 hours.

A typical test utilizing an challenge is shown in . In particular the PU control had greater than 400 cfu s while the 98 PU 2 biocidal SMA had 0 cfu s. All bacteria were killed in thirty minutes with a minimum of 99.9 or 3.6 log reduction.

In a similar test coatings were challenged against . Again the modified AATCC 100 sandwich test was utilized wherein the bacterial challenge is confined between two coated surfaces. With a challenge of 10 10CFUs for only 30 min no surviving colony forming units CFUs were seen.

While the SM concept was validated with a prebiocidal Example 4 or biocidal Example 5 moiety 5 5 dimethylhydantoin it will be understood by those who are skilled in the art that the functional groups surface concentrated by the approach described above is broad. For example the functional groups F 3 shown in may be a broad variety of hydantoin like moieties that optimizes biocidal activity e.g. those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 469 177 to Worley which is incorporated by reference . Other moieties that could easily be envisaged include alkylammonium species that are known to have biocidal properties. Tiller J. C. Lee S. B. Lewis K. Klibanov A. M. Polymer surfaces derivatized with poly vinyl N hexylpyridinium kill airborne and waterborne bacteria Biotechnology and Bioengineering 2002 79 465471. 

Alternatively F 3 could be a dye molecule that would protect the underlying polymer from UV degradation. F 3 could be a moiety such as OSi OR that would convert to siliceous functionalization in the presence of moisture. F 3 could be a bioactive moiety such as a peptide sequence that would favor biocompatibility. In this regard F 3 could be the RGD peptide sequence that favors endothelialization.

The remarkable and unexpected surface properties of polymers containing soft blocks of the general structure shown in demonstrates the non obviousness of compositions employing this molecular architecture. The ability of polymers of the general structure shown in is not completely understood and we are not bound by theory to explain the observed results. Nevertheless it appears that the ability of polymers containing soft blocks of the general structure described in to modify the surface behavior of a base polymer even when present at low weight percent apparently stems from a the tendency of soft blocks to concentrate at the surface b the presence of the surface philic group c the low glass transition temperature of soft block that facilitates i chemical modification as in reaction on polymer shown in Example 4 or even reaction on polymer surface as shown in Example 5 ii rapid surface reorganization that causes a kind of compliance to the medium to which the polymer is exposed seen in high contact angle hysteresis and facile reversible interaction with a medium as seen in unprecedented contraphilic behavior discussed in Example 3 and d as yet little understood phenomena such as i described in Example 1 where the polyurethanes containing co telechelics have higher and lower than the parent homo telechelic PUs and ii where a new synthetic procedure in Example 2 led to the discovery of amplification of hydrophobicity which occurred when the cotelechelic had a block structure of fluoro groups F1 rather than a random structure of F1 groups.

Referring to the circle represents a cyclic monomer substrate. R is a reagent that will produce a desired function. For example R3 introduces function F3 into monomer telechelic or PSM. X represents reactive functional groups appropriate to synthesizing a particular polymer class. For polyurethanes the telechelic has two terminal alcohol functions that is X OH X OCN diisocyanate X OH diol chain extender . For polyurethane ureas X OH X OCN X NH. p is the mole fraction of the segment containing function F1 derived from monomer M F1 . For polyurethanes A and B are polymer forming moieties such as isocyanates and alcohol terminated chain extenders. For polyurea urethanes A and B are isocyanates and amine terminated chain extenders respectively. For ester formation only A could be a dicarboxylic acid and B a diol. Generally A and B represent polymer forming moieties one of which will react with a telechelic such as T F1 F2 .

Referring to methods may be appreciated for introducing at least two segments so as to generate a functional telechelic for uses such as making a PSM or for use by itself as a detergent or surfactant.

PSM from monomer. Monomers M F1 and M F2 are synthesized Eq 1 and copolymerized to generate functional telechelic T F1 F2 Eq 2 . Subsequently T F1 F2 is used to generate polyurethane PSM AB T F1 F2 as shown in Equation 3. Here the combination of properties of segmers F1 and F2 in the soft block gives a desirable PSM. The ratio of F1 and F2 are controlled by the M F1 and M F2 feed in generating T F1 F2 . This ratio may be varied to optimize the activity of the PSM and to control physical properties such as the glass transition temperature of the soft block. The method of and or the method of may be used to prepare new 3 3 substituted 1 3 propylene oxide telechelics.

Modification of a telechelic. It may not always be possible to prepare a monomer that will be adaptable to the polymerization reaction of choice. By the reaction of a reagent R3 with telechelic T F1 F2 a new telechelic T F1 F3 is generated by reagent R3. Complete change of F2 to F3 is shown in Eq 3. Partial change of F2 to F3 may be adequate depending on the application.

Referring to methods may be appreciated for introducing a functional telechelic so as to generate a polyurethane PSM.

Incorporation by conventional polyurethane chemistry. shows the reaction of telechelics T F1 F2 T F1 F3 or if desired telechelics with multiple segmers F1 F2 F3 etc. with isocyanates and chain extenders that is by well known polyurethane chemistry to generate polyurethane PSMs.

Modification of an existing PSM. An existing PSM may be modified according to the scheme shown in . Here a desired functionality F 3 is introduced by reaction of a PSM with R3 to give a new PSM polymer AB T F1 F2 F3 . If the reaction with R3 is complete q Eq. 5 is zero. If the reaction with R3 is incomplete q Eq. 4 is finite and the soft block of the PU PSM contains three functional repeat units F 1 F 2 and F 3.

Mixed soft blocks. In a preferred embodiment the above method is varied by the use of a modified such as T F1 F2 along with standard telechelics such as polyethers polyesters and polycarbonates . Such a method may be used in a manufacturing environment wherein a small amount of T F1 F2 could be included in the feed for example in a twin screw extruder. The product is a mixed soft block polyurethane or polyester nylon or other polymer incorporating alcohol functionalized telechelic where the surface active soft block T F1 F2 concentrates at the surface. Typical S soft blocks in polyurethane chemistry are derived from polyalcohols such as dihydroxy polyethyleneglycol dihydroxy polytetramethylene oxide hydroxyl terminated polyisobutylenes and hydroxyl terminated polyesters.

A 5 5 hydantoin containing monomer 1 Hy4Ox was synthesized according to the scheme in . This 5 5 hydantoin containing monomer 1 was used to make telechelics which were in turn used to prepare pre biocidal PSMs.

Preparation of 2 3 methyloxetan 3 yl methoxy ethanol HE 1Ox 5 . Ethylene glycol 26.25 g 0.42 mol and KOH 19.45 g 0.35 mol were added to a round bottom flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer and a reflux condenser. When all KOH had dissolved the 3 bromomethyl 3 methyloxetane 4 46.30 g 0.28 mol was added. The system was heated to 70 C. for 3 hours. The reaction material was then distilled under vacuum 10 Torr and collected as a single fraction. The distilled material was then extracted with diethyl ether and water. The water fraction was then extracted with CHClmultiple times to obtain 11.98 g 29.2 yield of the final product though analysis of the water phase indicated a significant amount of HE 1Ox was unextracted. HNMR CDCl 1.31 ppm CH 3H s 2.63 ppm OH 1H t 3.54 ppm CH 2H s 3.60 ppm OCH 2H t 3.76 ppm HOCH 2H q 4.38 ppm oxetane CH 2H d 4.55 ppm oxetane CH 2H d .

Preparation of 2 3 methyloxetan 3 yl methoxy ethyl 4 methylbenzenesulfonate TE1Ox 6 . HE1Ox 15.20 g 0.10 mol and pyridine 17.93 g 0.23 mol were added to a round bottom flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer and a drying tube and placed in an ice bath. Once chilled p toluenesulfonyl chloride 23.53 g 0.12 mol was added to the flask and the ice bath was maintained for 30 minutes. The ice bath was then removed and the system was vigorously mixed for another 3.5 hours. The flask was then returned to the ice bath and 1.0 M HCl 35 mL was added to the flask. The product was then extracted with CHCland vacuum dried. A colorless liquid 26.44 g 84.6 yield was obtained. HNMR CDCl 1.24 ppm CH 3H s 2.45 ppm CH 3H s 3.46 ppm CH 2H s 3.68 ppm OCH 2H t 4.18 ppm CHOTs 2H t 4.30 ppm oxetane CH 2H d 4.42 ppm oxetane CH 2H d 7.35 ppm aromatic CH 2H d 7.80 ppm aromatic CH 2H d .

Preparation of 5 5 dimethyl 3 2 3 methyloxetan 3 yl methoxy ethyl imidazolidine 2 4 dione Hy4Ox 1 . Ethanol 7.9 mL KOH 2.27 g 0.040 mol and 5 5 dimethylhydantoin 5.60 g 0.044 mol were added to a flask equipped with a magnetic stir bar and reflux condenser. When dissolved TE1Ox 9.99 g 0.033 mol in ethanol 8.8 mL was added and the mixture was heated to reflux with a heating mantle. After heating overnight 15 h the reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature. The ethanol was mostly removed by rotary evaporation and then extracted with CHCl. Vacuum drying yielded 8.52 g 100 yield of a pale yellow viscous oil. H NMR CDCl 1.28 ppm CH 3H s 1.41 ppm CH 6H s 3.50 ppm OCH 2H s 3.70 ppm NCHCHO 4H m 4.30 ppm oxetane CH 2H d 4.48 ppm oxetane CH 2H d 6.71 ppm amide NH 1H s .

KOH 52.30 g 0.93 mol was added to methanol 113 mL in a 250 mL flask. When the KOH had dissolved the flask was placed in an ice bath and 3 bromomethyl 3 methyloxetane 118.51 g 0.72 mol was slowly added dropwise. When the addition was complete the ice bath was maintained until the exotherm subsided. Then the ice bath was replaced with a heating mantle and the mixture was heated to reflux 65 C. for 30 min. The KBr precipitate was filtered methanol was removed under vacuum and the product was distilled at 37 C. and 10 torr. A colorless liquid 65.08 g 78.1 yield was obtained. HNMR CDCl 1.29 ppm CH 3H s 3.38 ppm OCH 3H s 3.42 ppm CHO 2H s 4.33 ppm oxetane CH 2H d 4.48 ppm oxetane CH 2H d .

Telechelic P Hy4Ox MOx 16 84 was prepared by the general method shown in . A solution of Hy4Ox 2.73 g 10.7 mmol and MOx 4.32 g 37.2 mmol was prepared in methylene chloride 9.41 g and dried over 4 molecular sieves. A 100 mL three necked round bottom flask equipped with a 50 mL addition funnel and sealed with rubber septa was charged with BD 0.4163 g 4.62 mmol and methylene chloride 0.74 g . The monomer solution was transferred to the addition funnel and the system was purged with Nfor 30 min at room temperature then placed in an ethylene glycol water 50 50 v v bath at 5 C. Once the flask was chilled BFetherate 2.07 g 14.6 mmol 48 wt BF was added and the system was allowed to stand for 30 min. The contents for the addition funnel were then added slowly over a period of one hour. The bath temperature was maintained for an additional four hours then allowed to warm to room temperature. Water 5 mL was added to quench the reaction. The reaction mixture was extracted with water and chloroform. The solvent was removed yielding the telechelic P Hy4Ox MOx 16 84 H 3 Table 8 as a viscous oil. Telechelics of other Hy4Ox MOx ratios H 2 H 4 H 5 Table 8 were prepared in the same manner. A control telechelic P MOx H 1 was also prepared similarly using only monomer 2. In Table 8 error for telechelic content of Hy4Ox is 6 .

Polymerization of N611E1Ox 7 to telechelic P N611E1Ox Under nitrogen purge 154 mmol 1 4 Butanediol 0.01 g 0.10 mmol and BF OEt 0.03 g 0.20 mmol were reacted in 2 mL anhydrous CHClat ambient temperature for 45 minutes. Reaction mixture was cooled down to 0 C. Through an additional funnel N611E1Ox 6 dissolved in 7 ml CHClwas added drop wise to the solution. The mixture was reacted for 15 hours. Then it was warmed up to ambient temperature and quenched with 10 ml HO. The organic part was washed with water 20 mL 3 and solvent was evaporated under vacuum at 60 C. Calculation using end group analysis method with trifluoroacetic anhydride showed molecular weight of the resulting product P N611E1Ox to be 2400 g mole. Thermal analysis with MDSC gave the value of 24 C. for Tof P N611E1Ox .

Alkylammonium telechelics were prepared by the method of . 3FOx containing telechelics were prepared.

BBOx oxetane monomer was prepared according to Kawakami Y. Takahashi K. Hibino H 1991 24 4531 4537. 3FOx alkylammonium butoxymethyl telechelic 11 was prepared from precursor bromobutoxy trifluoroethoxy telechelic 10 according to the reaction 

Telechelic 10 4.4 g and N N dimethylhexylamine 1.5 mL 8.8 mmol were dissolved in 20 mL acetonitrile. The mixture was heated to reflux and stirred for 15 hours under nitrogen. The solvent and excess N N dimethylhexylamine was evaporated under vacuum to give a sticky liquid product. 0.91 ppm CH 3H s 1.35 ppm CH 6H broad 1.68 1.92 ppm CH 2H m 3.19 ppm backbone CH 4H m 3.4 ppm CHN 2H CH N CH 6H 3.45 ppm OCH 2H s 3.75 ppm CHCF 2H m . By H NMR the bromomethyl group was converted to the alkylammonium bromide quantitatively. Telechelic 11 was water soluble.

Under nitrogen purge 1 4 Butanediol 0.45 g 5 mmol and BF OEt 1.42 10 mmol were reacted in 20 mL anhydrous CHClat ambient temperature for 45 minutes. Reaction mixture was cooled down to 0 C. Through an additional funnel a mixture of 3FOx 16.56 g 90 mmol and BBOx 2.37 g 10 mmole dissolved in 20 ml CHClwas added drop wise to the solution. The mixture was reacted for 15 hours. It was warmed up to ambient temperature and quenched with 40 ml HO. The organic part was washed first with 30 mL 3 wt HCl solution then with 30 mL 3 wt NaCL solution. The solution was precipitated in 400 mL water. Solvent was evaporated under vacuum at 60 C. HNMR spectra showed that m 0.125. HNMR CDCl 0.91 ppm CH 3H s 1.68 ppm CH for BBOx 2H 1.92 ppm CH for BBOx 2H 3.19 ppm backbone CH 4H m 3.4 ppm CHBr 2H 3.45 ppm OCH 2H s 3.75 ppm CHCF 2H m . Mby end group analysis using trifluoroacetic anhydride was 8400 g mole.

Telechelic 12 3.38 g and N N dimethyldodecylamine 1.5 mL 8.8 mmol were dissolved in 20 mL acetonitrile. The mixture was heated to reflux and stirred for 15 hours under nitrogen. The solvent and excess N N dimethylhexylamine was evaporated under vacuum. 0.91 ppm CH 3H s 1.35 ppm CH 18H broad 1.68 1.92 ppm CH 6H broad 3.19 ppm backbone CH 4H m 3.4 ppm CHN 2H CH N CH 6H 3.45 ppm OCH 2H s 3.75 ppm CHCF 2H m . By H NMR the bromomethyl group was converted to the alkylammonium bromide quantitatively. Mvalue obtained from H NMR was 8 700 g mole.

BBOx oxetane monomer was prepared according to Y. Kawakami et al. supra. ME2Ox oxetane was synthesized as follows A mixture of 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethanol 20 g 0.17 mol and NaH 4 g 0.17 mol in 50 mL anhydrous tetrahydrofuran THF was stirred vigorously at room temperature until no more Hreleased from the system. The system was cooled to 0 C. by ice water bath and 3 bromomethyl 3 methyloxetane BrOx 27 g 0.17 mol was added drop wisely within 2 hours. The reaction mixture was brought to room temperature and stirred over night. After filtration 100 mL HO was added and the product was extracted by CHCland distilled with CaH. HNMR CDCl 1.32 ppm CH 3H s 3.39 ppm OCH 3H s 3.55 ppm OCHCHO 4H m 3.67 ppm OCHCHO 4H m and CH 2H m 4.35 ppm ring CH 2H d 4.52 ppm ring CH 2H d .

Through an additional funnel a mixture of BBOx 4.23 g 18 mmol ME2Ox 12.0 g 154 mmol 1 4 Butanediol 59 L 0.66 mmol and 50 mL anhydrous CHClwas added to the two necked 100 ml flask containing BF OEtand 25 mL anhydrous CHClunder nitrogen purge within 3 hours. The reaction system was stirred for 15 hours at 0 C. The reaction was quenched with addition and stirring of HO for 0.5 hour. Organic solution was washed by water 40 mL 3 . The solvent was evaporated and the residue was dried at 80 C. under vacuum for 48 hours to obtain 15.77 g copolymer. HNMR CDCl 0.91 ppm CH 3H s 1.68 ppm CH for BBOx 2H 1.92 ppm CH for BBOx 2H 3.19 ppm backbone CH 4H m 63.30 ppm CH 2H s 3.38 ppm OCH3H s 3.4 ppm CHBr 2H 3.55 ppm OCHCHO 4H m 3.64 ppm OCHCHO 4H m .

Telechelic 14 10.8 g and N N dimethylhexylamine 2.02 mL 11.9 mmol were dissolved in 20 mL acetonitrile. The mixture was heated to reflux and stirred for 15 hours under nitrogen. The solvent and excess N N dimethylhexylamine was evaporated under vacuum to give a sticky liquid product. 0.91 ppm CH 3H s 1.35 CH 6H broad 1.68 1.92 ppm CH 6H broad 3.19 ppm backbone CH 4H m 3.30 ppm CH 2H s 3.38 ppm OCH3H s 3.4 ppm CHN 2H CH N CH 6H 3.55 ppm OCHCHO 4H m 3.64 ppm OCHCHO 4H m . By H NMR the bromomethyl group was converted to the alkylammonium bromide quantitatively. Telechelic 15 is water soluble.

Telechelic 14 6.24 g was dissolved in 5 mL acetonitrile. The solution was heated to reflux. N N dimethyldodecylamine 6.15 g 28.9 mmol was added slowly to the mixture and was stirred for 15 hours under nitrogen. The solvent and excess N N dimethyl dodecylamine was evaporated under vacuum to give a sticky liquid product. 0.91 ppm CH 3H s 1.35 CH 8H broad 1.68 1.92 ppm CH 18H broad 3.19 ppm backbone CH 6H m 3.30 ppm CH 2H s 3.38 ppm OCH3H s 3.4 ppm CHN 2H CH N CH 6H 3.55 ppm OCHCHO 4H m 3.64 ppm OCHCHO 4H m . By H NMR the bromomethyl group was converted to the alkyl ammonium bromide quantitatively.

New polyurethane polymeric surface modifying additives were prepared as more particularly set forth in the following Examples 8A etc.

To a 100 mL round bottom flask was added H 2 P Hy4Ox MOx 16 84 0.96 g 0.47 mmol BD 0.14 g 1.5 mmol dibutyltin dilaurate 3 drops 10 wt in THF dimethylformamide 0.74 mL . An addition funnel was attached and HMDI 0.61 g 2.3 mmol and DMF 2.45 mL were added. The system was heated to 70 C. and purged with Nfor 20 min. The contents of the addition funnel were added rapidly. The extent of reaction was determined by removing small aliquots and observing the decrease of the 2268 cmisocyanate peak in the FT IR spectrum. 1 4 Butanediol in DMF was added to the reaction mixture until the isocyanate was consumed 32.8 mg 0.36 mmol BD and 2 mL DMF . The product PU C was precipitated in HO dried dissolved in THF and reprecipitated in HO. Polyurethanes using other P Hy4Ox MOx telechelics Table 8 supra were prepared in a similar manner. The compositions and physical properties are set forth in . shows characterization data for HMDI BD wt P Hy4Ox MOx polyurethanes.

The interesting discovery has been made that soft blocks with higher ratios of fluorinated segments to hydantoin segments are initially when dry more hydrophilic compared to ones with lower ratios of semifluorinated to hydantoin segments.

Materials. 3 2 2 2 Trifluoroethoxymethyl 3 methyloxetane 3FOx 3 2 2 3 3 3 pentafluoropropoxymethyl 3 methyloxetane 5FOx and 3 bromomethyl 3 methyloxetane BrOx were synthesized following published procedures Malik 2000 278 polymer paper or were provided by Gencorp Aerojet Sacramento Calif. or OMNOVA Solutions Akron Ohio . Monomers were distilled under vacuum before use 3FOx and 5FOx close to 100 C. 5 mmHg BrOx at 85 C. 5 mmHg. Boron trifluoride dietherate BFO CH was used as received. 5 5 Dimethylhydantoin Aldrich 97 potassium carbonate KCO Acros Chemicals ACS and sodium thiosulfate NaSO 99 were used as received. Methylene chloride anhydrous tetrahydrofuran THF ACS dimethylformamide DMF anhydrous and methanol ACS were either used as received or dried and stored over 4 molecular sieves. Isophorone diisocyanate IPDI 98 poly tetramethylene oxide PTMO 2000 and dibutyltin dilaurate catalyst T 12 were obtained from Aldrich. 1 4 Butanediol BD was purchased from Acros Chemicals.

Synthesis. The synthesis and characterization of the P FOx BrOx telechelics and IPDI BD P FOx BrOx polyurethanes have been reported in detail. Makal 2005 1543 IPDI BD P FOx BrOx polyurethanes were typically purified by reprecipitation THF solutions into deionized water methanol . Without adequate purification coatings can contaminate the water surface thereby changing the surface tension and contact angle . Such contamination is difficult to detect by sessile drop methods. Uilk 2003 639 

5 5 Dimethylhydantoin substitution on precursor PU was carried out in DMF in the presence of KCO. In a typical procedure 5.32 g 38.50 mmol KCOwas dispersed in 12.80 g DMF with 0.98 g 7.65 mmol 5 5 dimethylhydantoin in a 100 ml flask. 5 5 dimethylhydantoin was soluble in DMF. The mixture was heated to 65 C. under nitrogen purge with condenser. Precursor PU solution containing 4.12 g 0.61 mmol soft block precursor PU in 9.25 g DMF was dripped into the flask and the temperature was increased and kept at 90 95 C. range. After 72 h the reaction was quenched by decreasing the temperature to ambient. The product was precipitated into deionized water filtered and dried at 60 C. under vacuum.

The structure of the 5 5 dimethylhydantoin substituted PUs and degree of 5 5 dimethylhydantoin substitution is verified by H NMR. H NMR spectrum of a representative hydantoin substituted PU IPDI BD 40 P 3FOx HyOx BrOx 1.0 0.65 0.35 is shown in . The spectrum was taken in DMSO d6. The ratio of the peak h 1.23 ppm CH 5 5 dimethylhydantoin to b 0.8 0.9 ppm CH 3FOx was used to determine extent of hydantoin substitution. Other peaks ppm vs. TMS with assignments according to the structure in 0.7 0.8 ppm c CH 5 5 dimethylhydantoin containing segmer 0.9 1.0 ppm a m n CH BrOx CH IPDI 1.55 ppm 1 OCHCHCHCHO 3.0 3.4 ppm d f g j methylenes for the three segmers 3.46 ppm e OCHCF 3.9 4.0 ppm k OCHCHCHCHO 8.2 ppm p CONH 5 5 dimethylhydantoin .

Characterization. Polyurethane D DMSO H NMR spectra were recorded using a Varian Spectrometer Inova 400 MHz operating at 400 MHz. FT IR spectra were obtained using a Nicolet 400 FT IR spectrometer using solution cast films on KBr discs. Differential Scanning Calorimetry DSC was done with a TA Q 1000 Series instrument TA Instruments . Unless otherwise noted measurements were carried out at a heating rate of 10 C. min from 75 C. under inert atmosphere. Indium metal was used for calibration. In addition to standard DSC temperature modulated DSC MDSC with modulation amplitude of 0.5 C. modulation period of 60 seconds and heating rate of 3 C. min was also carried. DSC samples were directly deposited on the DSC pan.

Molecular Weight Determination. Polyurethane molecular weights were measured using a Viscotek TriSEC triple detector GPC system THF with sample concentrations of 5 15 mg mL and a flow rate of 1 ml min. Universal calibration by polystyrene standards was used for calculation of molecular weight M M and polydispersity.

Wetting behavior. Dynamic contact angle DCA analysis based on the Wilhelmy plate method Wilhelmy 1863 1464 was carried out with a Cahn Model 312 Analyzer Cerritos Calif. . The surface tension quantification limit of the instrument is 0.1 dyne cm. The probe liquid was 18 M cm deionized water from a Barnstead Dubuque Iowa Nanopure system. The surface tension of the probe liquid was checked daily and was typically 72.6 0.5 dynes cm. Beakers used for DCA analysis were cleaned by soaking in an isopropanol potassium hydroxide base bath for at least 24 h rinsed for 30 sec with hot tap water and then rinsed another 30 sec with nanopure water.

In a typical determination a coated slide was attached to the electrobalance via a clip and the stage with the beaker of water was automatically raised and lowered to allow water to impinge upon the slide. By analyzing the resulting force versus distance curves fdc s advancing and receding contact angles were obtained. Unless otherwise noted the stage speed was 100 m sec and dwell times between advancing and receding test segments was 10 sec.

The static contact angles and the image profiles were obtained by using a Rame Hart goniometer with a camera attached. The contact angles were measured using Drop image 1.4.11 version.

Precursor PUs. Co polymerization of 3FOx and BrOx was carried out by a modification of a procedure by Malik 2000 278 Makal 2005 1543. Cationic ring opening polymerization of 3FOx and BrOx with calculated feed ratio using BFetherate catalyst and BD as co catalyst gave the desired telechelic P 3FOx BrOx m n where the segmer ratio follows the designation of 3FOx and BrOx repeat units. Isophorone diisocyanate IPDI 1 4 butanediol BD and P 3FOx BrOx m n gave IPDI BD 40 P 3FOx BrOx m n polyurethane as previously described. Makal 2005 1543 IPDI BD 40 P 3FOx BrOx m n polyurethanes were used for hydantoin PU synthesis as described below. Precursor polyurethanes with varying hard block content were obtained. The optimum hard block content was 40 45 wt . The polyurethanes with lower hard segment content 25 35 are mechanically weak while those having higher hard block content 45 60 are rigid.

Hydantoin PUs. The 5 5 dimethylhydantoin containing polyurethanes were obtained via substitution reaction on IPDI BD 40 P 3FOx BrOx m n PUs. The reaction mechanism is shown in the following scheme 

Longer reaction times resulted in only modest increases in substitution e.g. 96 h 66 70 . Furthermore longer reaction times resulted in degradation as the reaction mixture turned a dark brown color. The slow rate and incomplete substitution of CH Br by hydantoin is likely due to steric hindrance at the neopentyl carbon site.

DSC. Polyurethanes have two T s due to the soft and hard blocks in their structure. The thermal analysis of the polyurethanes was performed using both temperature modulated MDSC and conventional DSC. The lower soft block T s are easily measured by conventional DCS. Whereas MDSC was employed for measuring the hard segment T. The DCS scans were performed form 70 C. to 150 170 C. previously we have reported the lower and upper Tg s for precursor PUs. Makal 2005 1543 the phase separation in these PU systems were calculated using the DCS data and the Fox equation. Makal 2005 1543 For the substituted PUs we were not able to detect hard segment Tg using both conventional or MDSC probably due to extensive phase mixing. Therefore no phase separation calculations were performed for the hydantoin substituted PUs.

The soft block Tg s before and after 5 5 dimethylhydantoin substitution are shown in Table 11. Soft block Tg of precursor PUs increased substantially after 5 5 dimethulhydantoin substitution. The increase is in the range of 29 46 . For example soft block Tg of IPDI BD 40 P 3FOx BrOx 1 1 29 increased 46 after 5 5dimethylhydantoin substitution 17 . The polar nature of heterocyclic 5 5 dimethylhydantoin is no doubt responsible for increase in Tg s.

Wetting behavior. The wetting behavior of the polyurethanes was determined by the Wilhelmy plate method using a Dynamic Contact Angle Analyzer DCA . Wilhelmy 1863 1464 Hogt 1985 258 Adamson 1997 398 The Wilhelmy plate method has been employed for the measurement of intrinsic contact angles for model PDMS networks. Uilk 2003 639 Several advantages for the Wilhelmy plate method have been noted. Lander 1993 257 A large polymer surface is interrogated in the DCA experiment compared to the sessile drop method. Uilk 2003 639 Another feature is facile testing of water surface tension after sample analysis. Uilk 2003 639 This important control is performed by using a glass cover slip flamed to remove organic contaminants to analyze water surface tension before and after evaluating a polymer coating. A decrease in post use water surface tension indicates water surface contamination by surface active materials such as oils and or amphiphiles leached from the coating. The ready qualitative detection of water insoluble leached species is of particular importance to biomedical electronic and space applications.

Cover glass slides were dip coated from THF solutions of polyurethanes 15 20 solids . The coatings were kept in upright position under the hood for 2 h. Then the coatings were placed in a vacuum oven at 50 C. for 24 h. Before any DCA measurements all the coatings were annealed for another 24 h under vacuum at 85 C. We favor dip

Advancing and receding contact angles are given in Table 12. After the synthesis each precursor polyurethane was precipitated into methanol water mixture at least once for purification. After running 5 5 dimethylhydantoin substituted PUs with DCA the water surface tension was also checked using flamed plain glass slide. No water contamination was observed.

The goal in this Example regarding polymeric surface modifiers SM was to alter the surface characteristics of a macroscopically thick coating. SMs are employed to bring the desired functionality to the surface. Because a very small amount of PSM is used for surface modification the mechanical bulk properties of the coating remain intact. Modification of surfaces using a PSM approach has been employed before in certain examples. For example the surfaces made hydrophobic using PDMS PSMs Ho 1994 658 Ratner 1986 702 Tezuka 1986 518 hydrophobic and oleophobic with fluorinated PSMs. Malik 1997 280 Thomas 1997 123 Thomas 2000 281 Thomas 1998 209 PSM approach has also been employed for surface concentration of UV absorbers Vogl 1994 678 and fullerenes. Chen 1999 454 

The inventive SMs of this Example have soft segments containing pendant semifluorinated and functional CH Br group. Replacing the Br with a different functionality results in new SMs. For comparison purposes a conventional base was referred to for which the wetting behavior was previously reported. Makal 2005 1545 These comparison precursor PUs were used as PSM 0.5 wt for surface modification of a conventional base polyurethane. Surface enrichment of these PSM PUs was investigated by XPS TM AFM and DCA. We observed that 0.5 wt was sufficient for the altering the wetting characteristics of base PU. The PSM covered the entire top surface of the composite coating when used 1 wt .

Upon conversion of amide functionality to chloramide simply by exposing the surface to dilute hypochlorite solution the surface becomes highly effective contact biocide. Eknoian 1998 161 Worley 1996 170 We have verified the biocidal activity of PU coatings containing 2 wt biocidal PSM against both Gram positive and Gram negative and type bacteria. Makal 2005 1437 

In preparing biocidal PU coatings 5 5 dimethylhydantoin substitution was the intermediate step. During the surface characterization of these intermediate products 5 5 dimethylhydantoin substituted PUs it was observed that dry coating becomes more hydrophobic as it gets wet so called contraphilic wetting thus named because the behavior is opposite to expected amphiphilic surface response .

Contraphilic wetting behavior of IPDI BD 40 P 5FOx HyOx BrOx 2.0 0.7 0.3 PU 6 has been observed. Makal 2005 1542 DCA measurements of this PU gave of 83 for the first immersion emersion cycle and increased to 110 for the rest of the cycles. Contraphilic behavior has been observed for polyurethanes with different compositions. Table 12 shows the soft block composition of PUs and dynamic contact angle data. The precursor PUs contain either trifluoroethoxy 3FOx or pentafluoropropoxy 5FOx pendant semifluorinated and CH Br BrOx side chains in their soft segments with different ratios.

The and for each cycles 3 or 5 for the PUs is shown in Table 12. The percent hydantoin substitution is given in Table 9.

Previously we have reported dry PU 6 surface has of 83 and once hydrated the contact angle increased to 110 . After annealing the coating at 85 for overnight under vacuum we observed of 68 for the dry coating and once the surface hydrated the contact angle increases to 106 Table 12 . The effect is perfectly reversible for 4 cycles. Thus these processing conditions were used for each coating in this Example.

PU 4 5 and 6 contain 5FOx as the semifluorinated pendant group. Within this series the PU coating having the greatest semifluorinated to 5 5 dimethylhydantoin ratio has the smallest initial contact angle and the contraphilic effect is maximized for this composition. The contraphilic effect is defined as the difference between the advancing contact angles for the second and the first immersion emersion cycle. For example PU 6 has the largest semifluorinated 5 5 dimethylhydantoin ratio 2.9 . Dry PU 6 has of 68 and the contraphilic effect is 38 . PU 4 has the smallest semifluorinated 5 5 dimethylhydantoin ratio 0.9 . Dry PU 4 has of 93 and the contraphilic effect is only 12 . Whereas PU 5 has an intermediate semifluorinated 5 5 dimethylhydantoin 1.7 ratio and the dry PU S surface has an intermediate of 83 with contraphilic effect of 25 . Although one might expect the PU coating with the highest semifluorinated 5 5 dimethylhydantoin ratio to have the most hydrophobic surface the opposite was actually observed. This kind of trend is not observed for the 3FOx containing series PU 1 2 and 3. The dry PU 1 72 and PU 2 70 coatings gave similar initial values. The contraphilic effect for PU 1 29 is not significantly different from PU 2 34 . The same trend is observed if PU 1 and PU 2 is compared to PU 3. The semifluorinated 5 5 dimethylhydantoin ratio for PU 1 3.3 and PU 2 1.5 is greater than that of PU 3 1.1 . Dry PU 3 coating has of 93 and 12 of contraphilic effect. Again the coatings with higher semifluorinated 5 5 dimethylhydantoin ratio have more hydrophilic surface when dry.

Surface switching between hydrophilic hydrophobic states is a well known phenomenon in the literature. In a series of papers Tsukruk reported Y shaped nano brushes. These Y shaped molecules have two incompatible arms. One arm consists of hydrophilic poly acrylic acid and the other arm is made of hydrophobic poly styrene . Depending on the polarity of the contacting medium one of these arms dominates the air polymer interface changing the wetting characteristics of the surface. For example if the brushes are treated with toluene non polar poly styrene arm covers the surface giving water contact angle of 73 . After water treatment of the same surface polar poly acrylic acid arm dominates the air polymer interface resulting 53 of water contact angle. Julthongpiput 2003 1433 Julthongpiput 2003 1435 Luzinov 2004 1471 In both cases the surface tries to minimize overall free energy. The lower critical solution temperature LCST behavior of poly isopropyl acrylamide is coupled with surface roughness. The resulting surface thermally switches between ultrahyrdophilic 0 and ultrahydrophobic 150 below and above the LSCT respectively. Sun 2004 717 

The inventive coatings of this Example switch in the exact opposite way than any surface that becomes hydrophilic when exposed to water and hydrophobic when exposed to organic solvent. In other words the inventive coatings of this Example behave in a way opposite to anticipated amphiphilic response. Thus the inventive coatings of this Example are contraphilic .

Most of the polymers having modestly hydrophilic character such as PUs become more hydrophilic with immersion in water Tingey 1991 600 Andrade 1985 403 Pike 1996 26 or polymers having polar functionality become more hydrophilic as function of water immersion time. Tretinnikov 1994 598 Holmes Farley 1985 271 Surface reorganization of polymers in water or polar environment is driven thermodynamically. The enthalpic driving force due to the hydrogen bonding of surface polar functionalities with water easily overcomes the entropy trying to form more ordered molecular structure. Upon exposure to water polymer surfaces rearrange in order to open paths for the polar hydrophilic moieties to migrate water polymer interface. Concentration of polar moieties at the surface gradually decreases the advancing contact angle. Russell 2002 1467 Senshu 1999 1457 Lemieux 2003 1434 The inventive PU surfaces of this Example display the opposite anticipated wetting behavior for the Example surfaces the dry PU surface becomes more hydrophobic with water. Upon dehydration of the wetted surface the initial hydrophilic character is restored.

The contraphilic effect is believed to be driven enthalpically like amphiphilic response . The soft segment in the polyurethanes contains semifluorinated and 5 5 dimethylhydantoin pendant groups. In other words the soft block has both fluorinated and amide groups. The role of a surface amide group is well known. The hydrogen bonding of amide groups with water and with each other below and above the LCST respectively is responsible for the hydrophilic hydrophobic switching for poly N isopropylacrylamide surface Sun 2004 1507 having amide and semifluorinated side chain on a relatively flexible backbone may result rapid hydration of the surface.

Certain examples of contraphilic like wetting has been reported previously. Ferguson reported oxidized 1 2 polybutadiene surfaces become more hydrophobic against hot water. Carey 2000 272 Khongtong 2002 1431 This is an entropically driven process. The entropic loss due to the stretched chains translates into elastic restoring force as the temperature increases. Thus the polar groups are pulled away from water polymer interface gradually increasing the hydrophobicity of the surface. But the change in the wetting behavior of oxidized 1 2 polybutadine surface is damped after successive cycles. In contrast the contraphilic wetting is observed with cycling between dry and wet states.

Mixed soft block polyurethanes were prepared according to the general example shown in . Equation 6 is for a general example of mixed soft blocks which is a convenient industrial approach as surface properties can be tuned without making a separate polyurethane SM. In the example below a polyethylene oxide soft block hydantoin soft block composition is prepared. One goal of this work was to increase the wettability. In this example in order to enhance wetting by water the surface tension hydrophilicity of the coating was increased by incorporating a poly ethylene oxide PEO soft block as co soft segment in polyurethane.

Synthesis of polyurethane having poly ethylene oxide 3FOx BrOx 1 2 soft block PU PEO 3A PEO is the acronym for polyethylene oxide soft block 3A connects the composition of this soft block to the 1 2 3FOx BrOx soft block . 

A 250 mL three neck round bottomed flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer nitrogen inlet and condenser was charged with 7.49 g 33.69 mmol IPDI 6.06 g 4.04 mmol and 8.70 g 3.48 mmol P 3FOx BrOx 1 2 co telechelic so that the molar feed ratio of PEO P 3FOx BrOx 1 2 was close to 1.0. The reaction was started in DMF with an initial 85 90 wt concentration of reactants. After addition of dibutyltin dilaurate catalyst 0.15 0.20 weight of the total reaction mixture in THF the reactants were kept at 65 70 C. for 3 h. The preparation of diisocyanate terminated prepolymer was confirmed by FT IR spectroscopy urethane carbonyl 1724 cm and N H 3346 cm absorbances .

In the second stage BD was added and heating was continued 65 C. until all isocyanate groups were consumed ca. 5 h . The course of the chain extension reaction was monitored with FT IR by following the disappearance of sharp isocyanate band at 2267 cm. As the viscosity increased during the chain extension reaction DMF or DMF THF was added to dilute the reaction mixture. The final solids content of the polymer solution was 50 60 . The product was precipitated into methanol or methanol water for purification.

Preparation of PU 2 by 5 5 dimethylhydantoin substitution onto PU 1. Replacement of Br with 5 5 Dimethylhydantoin substitution reaction was carried out in DMF in the presence of KCO. The reaction conditions were as in the above Example. shows force versus distance curves and dynamic contact angles for bulk IPDI BD PTMO coating doped with 10 wt PU 2 Co Soft Block PEO 1 3FOx BrOx 1 2 1 with 5 5 dimethylhydantoin 55 substitution of C Br by Hy Hard Block IPDI BD 40 solvent cast film from THF dried 60 C 4 Torr overnight.

Surface characterization of pure PU 1 PU 2 and polyurethane coatings doped with PU 2 Polyurethane wetting behavior was determined by the Wilhelmy plate method using a Dynamic Contact Angle DCA analysis. Glass cover slips were dip coated using THF solutions. The solvent was removed at 50 C. in vacuo. PU 2 was used as PSM 10 wt for surface modification of base PU PTMO based PU . shows the fdc s and DCA data for an IPDI BD PTMO polyurethane doped with 10 hydantoin containing mixed soft block surface modifying additive PU 2. The coating had of 84 for the first cycle and increased to 88 for the second cycle. The observed contact angles were not significantly different than that of pure base PU 88 but the observation of contraphilic effect suggested the presence of PSM at the air polymer interface. As further evidence for the existence of the SMA at the surface the chlorinated surface displayed of 96 . Conversion of near surface N H to N Cl decreased the polarity of the surface resulting increased advancing contact angle. for the corresponding chlorinated coating without PEO was 102 . Hence the incorporation of PEO as co soft block along with P 3FOx HyOx BrOx co telechelic increased the hydrophilicity of the surface.

Referring to an example may be appreciated of using at least one polymeric surface modifier PSM with at least one polyurethane according to the present invention. FOx and or BrOx polyurethanes are processed with a hydantoin to produce contraphilic polyurethanes .

A contraphilic polyurethane may be added to a conventional polyurethane followed by annealing to produce a contraphilic blend . A preferred example of a contraphilic blend comprises about 2 PSM and about 98 polyurethane.

A contraphilic polyurethane may be subjected to hypochlorite bleach treatment to produce a biocidal PSM modified blend . A preferred example of a biocidal PSM modified blend comprises about 2 PSM and about 98 polyurethane.

A starting product which is selected from an alkylammonium F Ox mixture an alkylammonium ME2Ox mixture and telechelics may be processed into a biocidal polyurethane . Alternately a starting product may be processed with conventional soft blocks into a biocidal polyurethane .

A biocidal polyurethane may be processed into a biocidal PSM modified blend . As previously mentioned a preferred example of a biocidal PSM modified blend comprises about 2 PSM and about 98 polyurethane.

The present inventors have made the surprising discovery that a fluorinated segment is not required for surface activity such as e.g. biocidal C 12 alkylammonium SMs the C 12 alkylammonium side chain and to a lesser extent a C 6 alkylammonium side chain act as their own chaperones and the biocidal Hy4Ox MOx polyurethane SMs. Thus it should be appreciated that in the processing shown on using a fluorinated segment is not required to produce a product which exhibits surface activity. In the starting reagents the biocidal polyurethanes and the biocidal PSM modified blends a fluorinated segment is not required for surface activity but desired surface function may be enhanced by the presence of a fluorinated segment.

While highlights a biocidal example it should be appreciated that alternately or additionally to a biocidal function the present invention also may be used for many other desirable functions such as e.g. control of wetting behavior incorporation of indicators or sensors incorporation of dyes incorporation of adhesion promoting groups etc.

A solution of 98 wt conventional IPDI BD PTMO PU Hard Block 40 wt and 2.0 wt IPDI BD P 3FOx HyOx BrOx 1.0 0.65 0.35 PSM was prepared in THF. Coverslips were coated in the way described above. After drying overnight at 50 C. in vacuum no contraphilic behavior was noted. However after annealing near 90 C. overnight the wetting behavior shown in was observed. The difference between the first advancing contact angle for the dry coating and the second advancing contact angle for the wet coating was 32 . This result shows that through processing the contraphilic effect of pure BD P 3FOx HyOx BrOx 1.0 0.65 0.35 was displayed with fidelity at only 2 wt in the test polyurethane coating. This is an important result in amplifying the contraphilic effect at such a small weight percent.

Synthesis of a PU PSM containing a soft block with alkylammonium side chains via the route is shown in .

 i P N61E1Ox 2.07 g in 1.17 g DMF was heated under nitrogen purge in three necked round bottom flask. At 70 C. 4 4 methylenebis cyclohexylisocyanate HMDI was added via syringe. Three drops of 110 wt dibutyltin dilaurate in DMF was added as the catalyst. Prepolymer completion was observed by stabilization of C O peak at 1720 cmin FTIR spectrum. After prepolymerization 3 hrs 1 4 butanediol 0.17 g 1.89 mmol in 2.0 g DMF was added dropwise. The mixture reacted until complete disappearance of NCO peak at 2267 cm ca. 4 hours . The polymer HMDI 30 BD P N611E1Ox was cooled down to room temperature and precipitated in 100 mL water. Solvent was evaporated under vacuum at 60 C. for 48 hours. The structure of HMDI 30 BD P N611E1Ox is shown in .

 ii The hexyl ammonium functionalized telechelic 11 4.6 g and 4 4 methylenebis cyclohexylisocyanate HMDI 1.00 g 3.4 mmol were dissolved in a mixture solution of 10 mL anhydrous tetrahydrofuran and 10 mL anhydrous DMF in a 50 mL round bottom flask with ten drops of 10 dibutyltin dilaurate as the catalyst. The system was heated to 60 C. for 4 hours and cooled to room temperature. 1 4 butandiol 0.2 g 2.23 mmol was added and the mixture was heated to 60 C. with stirring for another 4 hours. The product HMDI 40 BD 11 0.25 was precipitated by adding diethyl ether and dried under vacuum for 3 days. The structure of HMDI 40 BD 11 0.25 is shown in .

 iii The dodecyl ammonium functionalized telechelic 13 1.06 g 0.12 mmol was added to a three necked round bottom flask and heated to 70 C. under nitrogen purge. 1 6 hexamethlene diisocyanate HDI was added to the flask with 0.6 g DMF. Two drops of 10 wt dibutyltin dilaurate in DMF were added as the catalyst. Prepolymer completion was observed by stabilization of C O peak at 1720 cmin FTIR spectrum. When the prepolymer was ready 1 4 butanediol 0.09 g 0.94 mmol in 0.5 g DMF was added dropwise. The mixture reacted until complete disappearance of NCO peak at 2267 cm ca. 4 hours The polymer HDI 20 BD 13 0.125 was cooled down to room temperature and precipitated in 50 mL diethyl ether. Solvent was evaporated under vacuum at 60 C. for 48 hours. The structure of HDI 20 BD 13 0.125 is shown in .

 iv The alkyl ammonium functionalized telechelic 15 was used to prepare HMDI 40 BD 15 0.25 by a method similar to that was described for the HMDI 40 BD 11 0.25 polyurethane shown in . The structure of HMDI 40 BD 15 0.25 is shown in .

 v Telechelic 15 was used to prepare a polyurethane by using methylene bis phenyl isocyanate MDI . Telechelic 15 1.73 g MDI 0.56 g 2.24 mmol and 3.0 g DMF were added to a three necked round bottom flask and heated under nitrogen purge. Five drops of 10 wt dibutyltin dilaurate in DMF were added as the catalyst. Following prepolymer completion 1 4 butanediol 0.20 g 2 mmol in 1.5 g DMF was added dropwise. The mixture reacted until complete disappearance of NCO peak at 2267 cm ca. 4 hours . The polymer MDI 30 BD 15 0.25 was cooled down to room temperature and precipitated in 100 mL water. Solvent was evaporated under vacuum at 60 C. for 48 hours. The structure of MDI 30 BD 15 0.25 is shown in .

 vi Polyurethane with telechelic 16 MDI 30 BD 16 0.25 was synthesized following a similar method to that described for telechelic 15 in . The structure of MDI 30 BD 16 0.25 is shown in .

While the invention has been described in terms of its preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

