---

title: Apparatus and methods for managing content exchange on a wireless device
abstract: Apparatus, methods, computer readable media and processors operable on a wireless device may provide an anti-spam engine operable to intercept content intended for and/or generated by client applications, and filter out unwanted content. The anti-spam engine may include a configurable module having a spam filter that may determine whether content is unwanted. Based on the result of subjecting the content to the spam filter, the anti-spam engine may forward the content to the intended client application and/or a network destination, and/or may generate a spam log. The anti-spam module may be further operable to forward the spam log to another device, such as a user manager device, operable to analyze the log and generate a report which may be viewable by an operator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09288078&OS=09288078&RS=09288078
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09288078
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060306
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 665 305 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Preventing Unauthorized Downloads to a Wireless Device filed Mar. 25 2005 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described embodiments generally relate to wireless communication devices and computer networks and more particularly relate to apparatus and methods for detecting unauthorized content on a wireless device.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network.

Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and include such features as Internet browsing instant messaging IM E mail and text messaging including Short Message Service and Multimedia Messaging Service SMS MMS . Because such features facilitate direct contact with a wireless device user these messaging clients have become targets for unauthorized unsolicited and in most cases unwanted messages and or viruses herein referred to as spam. 

Spamming may be loosely defined as the use of any electronic communications medium to send unsolicited messages and or viruses in bulk and by definition occurs without the permission of the recipient. While its use is usually limited to indiscriminate bulk mailing and not any targeted marketing the term spam can refer to any commercially oriented unsolicited bulk mailing perceived as being excessive and undesired. Although the most common form of spam is that delivered in E mail spammers have developed a variety of spamming techniques which vary by media E mail spam instant messaging spam Usenet newsgroup spam Web search engines spam weblogs spam and mobile phone messaging spam.

Spam by E mail is a type of spam that involves sending identical or nearly identical messages to thousands or millions of recipients. Spammers often harvest addresses of prospective recipients from Usenet postings and or web pages obtain them from databases or simply guess them by using common names and domains.

Instant messaging IM systems such as Yahoo Messenger AIM MSN Messenger and ICQ are popular targets for spammers. Many IM systems offer a directory of users including demographic information such as age and sex. Advertisers can gather this information sign on to the system and send unsolicited messages.

Mobile phone spam in some forms includes spamming directed at mobile phone text messaging services and can be especially irritating to users not only for the inconvenience but also because they may have to pay to receive the unsolicited and often unwanted text message. Mobile phone spam may also include any type of content that can be received by a mobile phone such as audio content video content software programs etc. and combinations thereof.

Several methods of message analysis to protect networks from spam include fingerprinting and rules based scoring. Fingerprinting technology takes a digital picture of each message and matches it against known profiles of spam messages to detect unwanted email and flag it as spam. Rule based scoring involves scoring messages against a database of spam rules assigning scores to messages based on unique characteristics of spam and legitimate email. When a score of a message exceeds a defined threshold it is flagged as spam.

The approach to anti spam filtering at the wireless user device level has for the most part been accomplished by incorporating an anti spam module within each messaging client application. However if anti spam code is integrated within each client application e.g. E mail MMS SMS and IM much valuable handset storage memory is wasted doing essentially the same function that being anti spam filtering.

Furthermore if the functionality of an anti spam module is limited to filtering spam after being received by the wireless device the filtering does nothing to address the equally if not more important issue of network congestion due to a flood of spam traversing the network. A network accurately sized for a certain bandwidth of legitimate traffic plus a little extra may be hard pressed to maintain the designed to quality of service in the presence of millions of instances spam content directed to an equally large and growing number of wireless devices hosting several content consuming client applications.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an apparatus and method that provides a single ubiquitous anti spam module that may be configured to monitor all content incoming to a wireless device prior to being received by any client application. Furthermore it would be advantageous to provide an apparatus and method operable to analyze the effect of the spam filtering on the wireless device with the goal of blocking further spam attacks.

The described embodiments comprise apparatus methods computer readable media and processors operable on a wireless device to provide a single ubiquitous anti spam detection mechanism capable of filtering out unwanted content such as unauthorized and or unsolicited content and or viruses i.e. spam within a data stream received from a wireless network and intended for a client application resident on the wireless device and or within a data stream generated on the wireless device and intended for transmission to a remote device on the wireless network.

Furthermore such apparatus and methods may include the forwarding of information regarding the detected unwanted content to a user manager and or operator for further analysis and report generation. Furthermore the network carrier may be informed of the unwanted content for the purpose of blocking the future propagation of unwanted content throughout the network.

In some aspects a method for filtering content on a wireless device comprises intercepting content on the wireless device prior to delivery of the content to a content destination. The method further comprises analyzing the content based on a content filter to determine if the content comprises unwanted content wherein the content filter is selected from a plurality of content filters based on at least one of a network service provider associated with the wireless device a hardware characteristic associated with the wireless device a predetermined characteristic associated with the content destination and a hardware requirement associated with the content. Additionally the method comprises based upon the analyzing of the content forwarding the content to the content destination or quarantining the content. In other aspects at least one processor may perform the above defined actions. In yet other aspects a machine readable medium may comprise instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above defined operations.

In some other aspects a wireless device comprises means for intercepting content on the wireless device prior to delivery of the content to a content destination. The wireless device further comprises means for analyzing the content based on a content filter to determine a content classification wherein the content filter is selected from a plurality of content filters based on at least one of a network service provider associated with the wireless device a hardware characteristic associated with the wireless device a predetermined characteristic associated with the content destination and a hardware requirement associated with the content. Additionally the wireless device comprises means for forwarding the content to the content destination or quarantining the content based upon the content classification.

In yet other aspects a wireless device comprises an anti spam engine operable to intercept content on the wireless device prior to delivery of the content to a content destination the anti spam engine comprising a content filter selected from a plurality of content filters based on at least one of a network service provider associated with the wireless device a hardware characteristic associated with the wireless device a predetermined characteristic associated with the content destination and a hardware requirement associated with the content. Additionally the wireless device comprises control logic associated with the anti spam engine and operable to apply the content filter to the content and determine if the content comprises unwanted content wherein the control logic is further operable to forward the content to the content destination if the content does not comprise unwanted content or quarantine the content if the content comprises unwanted content.

In still further aspects a method for managing the filtering of content on a wireless device comprises providing a predetermined content filter and a reporting parameter to the wireless device and receiving based on the reporting parameter a spam log relating to content on the wireless device and subjected to the predetermined content filter. Further the method comprises generating a report based on the spam log. In other aspects at least one processor may perform the above defined actions. In yet other aspects a machine readable medium may comprise instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above defined operations.

In other aspects an apparatus for managing the filtering of content on a wireless device comprises means for providing a predetermined content filter and a reporting parameter to the wireless device and means for receiving based on the reporting parameter a spam log relating to content received by the wireless device and subjected to the content filter. Additionally the apparatus comprises means for generating a report based on the spam log.

In further aspects an apparatus for managing the filtering of content on a wireless device comprises a generator module operable to generate a content filter configuration comprising at least one predetermined content filter and a reporting parameter. Further the apparatus comprises an anti spam module operable to forward the content filter configuration to the wireless device and operable to receive based on the reporting parameter a spam log relating to content received by the wireless device and subjected to the spam filter. Additionally the apparatus comprises a report generator operable to generate a report based on the spam log.

Referring to a system for detecting unwanted content on a wireless device including preventing the receipt and or transmission of such content may comprise a wireless device operable to receive a content filter configuration from a user manager . Unwanted content or spam may include unauthorized or unsolicited content and or viruses. Content filter configuration defines parameters for the filtering of content using filter module for the recording of details associated with filtered content in a spam log and for the forwarding of log to the user manager or another device for analysis.

For example an operator workstation may be configured to receive a spam report generated by a report generator associated with user manager and may further be configured to communicate future spam blocking instructions to a message center . Communication between wireless device user manager operator workstation and message center may be accomplished via network .

Content filter configuration and corresponding filter module may include one or more content filters to apply to incoming and or outgoing content. The content filter utilized by wireless device may be selected from a plurality of content filters based on for example at least one of a network service provider associated with the wireless device a hardware characteristic associated with the wireless device a predetermined characteristic associated with the content destination and a hardware requirement associated with the content.

For example wireless device may operate on a home wireless network provided by a network service provider but the device may roam out of the home network into another wireless network under the control of another network service provider. Since spam may affect the performance of the given wireless network each wireless service provider may define and provide a custom content filter to be used by any wireless device operating on their wireless network.

In another example the content filter may vary depending on the hardware characteristics of a given wireless device. For instance a hardware characteristic such a processor type capability speaker type capability ringer type capability display type capability and a memory type capability may affect whether or not a given wireless device can efficiently process a given content. For example a given content comprising a given ring tone may require sounds not capable of being generated by a given ringer associated with a given wireless device and thus the given content may be considered spam for the given device. Thus a given content that adversely affects a hardware characteristic of one wireless device may be classified as spam for that device while the same content may be classified as not spam for another wireless device having different hardware characteristics.

Similarly the content filter may vary depending on a predetermined characteristic associated with the content destination. For instance in the case of incoming content received by the wireless device the predetermined characteristic associated with the content destination may comprise for example an identification of a destination client application resident on the wireless device. In other words content defined or classified as spam may vary depending upon whether the content is destined for a browser as opposed to a text messaging client. In the case of outgoing content intended from transmission from the wireless device the predetermined characteristic associated with the content destination may comprise for example a number content destinations associated the content. In other words sending of more than a predetermined number of copies of the same content may be defined as spamming.

Similarly the content filter may vary depending on a hardware requirement associated with the content. For instance the hardware requirement may comprise for example at least one of a wireless device processor type capability capacity usage an audio component type capability usage a video component type capability usage and a wireless device memory type capability usage. In other words for example spam may be defined as requiring more than a predetermined amount of the total capacity of a given wireless device hardware resource. By using too much capacity a given content may adversely affect the overall performance of the wireless device and or may affect the performance of other applications executing on the wireless device.

Wireless device may include any type of computerized device such as a cellular telephone personal digital assistant two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools and data relays.

Wireless device includes an anti spam engine module that monitors incoming and or outgoing content and filters out unwanted unsolicited and or unauthorized content and or viruses collectively referred to as spam. Anti spam module may be loaded into a memory of wireless device in a number of ways including but not limited to statically installed at the factory by wireless transmission over a wireless network such as network and over a hardwired connection such as via a personal computer PC . Wireless device may be delivered to a network carrier and or some other retailer for sale and delivery to a user and activation on a network.

Once a wireless device is activated by a carrier application clients and wireless device components ports interfaces for sending and receiving content may be operable on the wireless device . For example application clients may include but are not limited to clients such as instant messaging IM E mail and messaging clients such as a Short Message Service SMS client and a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS client and a browser. Wireless device components ports interfaces may include any point of content entry into and or any point of content exit from wireless device as will be discussed in more detail below. Targeting these client applications and components ports interfaces advertisers and other spam generators of unsolicited communications may then gain access to network and obtain the address information of wireless device . Armed with such information such as a phone number and or Internet Protocol IP address a spam generator may start sending spam to the wireless device via message center and wireless link . Spam may be any content that is unsolicited unwanted and or unauthorized by the user of wireless device and or by the operator and or network service provider associated with network . Furthermore spam intentionally or unintentionally generated by a client application may be transmitted to the network thereby degrading network availability.

Anti spam engine module is operable to intercept all incoming content and or all outgoing content and to filter out content determined to be unauthorized and or unsolicited and or unwanted and or a virus based upon configurable parameters to be discussed in detail herein.

In one aspect the anti spam engine may quarantine the detected spam in a quarantine folder and may generate a spam log with details of the detected spam. Further in another aspect based upon a configurable reporting parameter the anti spam engine may transmit the spam log to the user manager over wireless link .

The user manager may receive the log analyze the data and generate a report. The user manager may for example E mail the report over communication channel to an operator workstation or otherwise make the contents of the report viewable to an operator.

The operator may analyze the report and based upon that analysis may issue a command to the user manager with instructions to update the anti spam engine for example to update the filtering characteristics of the engine to detect new forms of spam. Furthermore the operator workstation may transmit instructions to the message center to block further access of spam generator to the network .

Referring to wireless device may comprise a computer platform interconnected with an input mechanism and an output mechanism respectively providing inputs and outputs for communicating with resident applications. For example input mechanism may include but is not limited to a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display and a voice recognition module. Output mechanism may include but is not limited to a display an audio speaker and a haptic feedback mechanism.

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware software firmware executable instructions data and combinations thereof operable to receive transmit and otherwise enable communication between components within the wireless device as well as to enable communications between the wireless device and other devices such as serially connected devices as well as devices connected via an air interface such as network . Communications module receives content either from one or more client applications and or from input mechanism on wireless device and or from another device in communication with wireless device and cooperates with anti spam engine to analyze content before allowing the content to be transmitted from and or received by the wireless device.

As noted above communications module may comprise any component port interface that may include any point of content entry into and or any point of content exit from wireless device. As such communications module may include interface components for hardwired communications and for wireless communications. For example communications module may include but is not limited to communication interface components such as a serial port a universal serial bus USB a parallel port and air interface components for wireless protocols standards such as Wi Fi World Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX infrared protocols such as Infrared Data Association IrDA short range wireless protocols technologies Bluetooth technology ZigBee protocol ultra wide band UWB protocol home radio frequency HomeRF shared wireless access protocol SWAP wideband technology such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance 802.11 network technology public switched telephone network public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet private wireless communications networks land mobile radio networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Computer platform may also include memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may comprise any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Memory may be operable to store one or more client applications including but not limited to a web browser client an IM client a messaging client such as a SMS text messaging client and or a MMS multimedia messaging client and an E mail client.

Furthermore anti spam engine may be stored in memory and is operable to intercept content received by the communications module that in the absence of anti spam engine would be forwarded directly from the communications module to a respective content destination such as a resident client application and or a remote device located across a wireless network. With anti spam engine in place content determined to be spam may be blocked while legitimate content may be forwarded to the respective content destination. It should be noted that anti spam engine may be configured to filter all content received by communications module or only selected content received from selective sources interfaces for example only content for one or more predetermined client applications and or only content received at a predetermined port such as a USB.

Further computer platform may include a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine is operable to execute an application programming interface API layer that may interface with any resident programs such as the anti spam engine and client applications .

In one non limiting aspect API is a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW g software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Still referring to processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems that provide functionality to wireless device . In a cellular phone example processing subsystems may include subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc.

Non limiting processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the resident anti spam engine and any other memory resident client application .

Referring to anti spam engine may monitor and analyze content generated by and or designated for receipt by any client application . Anti spam engine may be any one or a combination of hardware software firmware executable instructions and data.

The anti spam engine may comprise an anti spam engine identification ID that identifies the anti spam engine and control logic operable to manage all functions and components of the anti spam engine . For example anti spam engine ID may include one or more of a name a version etc. Further anti spam engine may include a content filter configuration file that defines a content filter to apply to incoming content. For example content filter may be a filter mechanism included in content filter configuration file may be a reference to a remotely stored filter mechanism or may be an identification of a filter mechanism stored within filter module resident on wireless device . Further control logic in conjunction with statistic collector reporter module is operable to apply the designated content filter to content and identify or classify the content as being spam or non spam and further collect information associated with the filtering and classification operations. Additionally anti spam engine may store filtered content in a quarantine folder and may store at least portions of the filtered content and or additional content related information in a spam log that is used to report the activity of anti spam engine . Further anti spam engine may include a User Interface UI that assists a user such as a local user of wireless device or a remotely located user in communication with wireless device in operating anti spam engine .

For example UI in conjunction with the input mechanism may be operable by the end user to configure at least a portion of the capabilities of the anti spam engine including content filtering reporting quarantining and disposing of detected spam.

Besides being configurable by the user the content filter configuration file may be downloaded to memory via wireless transmission over a wireless network statically installed by the OEM at the time of manufacture and downloaded via hardwired connection to a personal computer PC . For example content filter configuration file may be set by an operator associated with a network service provider and transmitted to wireless device via user manager server .

Content filter configuration file may include any combination of one or more sets of parameters that dictate the spam filtering recording and reporting activities to be performed by wireless device . For example content filter configuration file may include a set of parameters to apply to all content regardless of the destination of the content. Alternatively content filter configuration file may include a destination specific set of parameters corresponding to one or more of the resident client applications capable of receiving content from network and or one or more content destinations on wireless network .

As such in some aspects content filter configuration file may include one or more of the following parameters a content destination which identifies a client application and or a network device on wireless network corresponding to the given set of parameters such that the given set of parameters are applied to content designated for the corresponding content destination a content filter that identifies a content filter to be applied to the corresponding content a predetermined filter test result associated with the given content filter and or the content destination where the predetermined filter test result is a limit that is compared to a filter test result generated by applying content filter to incoming and or outgoing content and where the predetermined filter test result defines spam and non spam content a storage limit parameter associated with quarantined spam content for example storage limit parameter may indicate a number of days to keep quarantined content before automatically deleting the content and or may indicate a maximum amount of memory to be utilized to store quarantined content a reporting parameter which defines what information to log corresponding to any detected spam when to forward the log for analysis to whom to forward the log and or whom to allow access to the log and a configuration identification ID such as one or more of a name a version etc. that identifies the given set of parameters associated with the given configuration.

Anti spam engine may be operable based upon at least one of several spam detection mechanisms referred to herein as content filter . In some aspects content filter comprises a software mechanism for classifying content as either spam or not spam. In some aspects content may be run through content filter to produce a filter test result which is calculated based upon a predetermined set of rules i.e. the filter mechanism.

There are many techniques for classifying content as spam or as not spam. These techniques are represented by content filter and include but are not limited to host based filtering rule based filtering Bayesian statistical analysis noise filters and Sender Policy Framework SPF or Sender Identification ID filters. Host based and rule based filters for example examine content for spam markers such as common spam subjects known spammer addresses known mail forwarding machines or simply common spam phrases. In one aspect such as in cases when the content comprises a message the header and or the body of the message may be examined for these markers. Another method is to classify as spam all content from unknown addresses.

Bayesian filtering compares content that others have received to find common spam content and accomplishes this by tokenizing a large corpus of spam and a large corpus of non spam. The theory behind Bayesian filtering is that certain tokens will be common in spam content and uncommon in non spam content and certain other tokens will be common in non spam content and uncommon in spam content. When content is to be classified it is tokenized to see whether the tokens are more like those of spam content or those of non spam content.

Noise filters are a form of Bayesian filters that target spam containing numerous random words rarely used in sales promotions. Spammers hope to thwart Bayesian filters by minimizing promotion language and by making the spam appear to be personal correspondence. There are three primary steps employed by Bayesian noise reduction filters. The first step is pattern learning where patterns are created and their disposition learned by the filter. The second step may use the patterns learned and performs dubbing or elimination of tokens whose disposition is inconsistent with the pattern of text they belong to. The third step may perform concurrent elimination of data from the sample up to a stop marker. Once a stop marker has been reached certain checks may be performed on the length of the concurrent elimination to determine if the elimination should be made permanent.

Sender Policy Framework SPF or Sender Identification ID filters protects against return path address forgery and makes it easier to identify spoofs. SPF operates by having domain owners identify sending mail servers in domain name servers DNS . SMTP receivers verify the envelope sender address against this information and can distinguish authentic content from forgeries before any content data is transmitted.

Furthermore because large files may have an adverse affect on the wireless device such as by using memory or processing capability or on the network such as by using bandwidth content may be identified as spam based upon the size of the content transmitted to from the wireless device .

Any one or any combination of the filtering mechanisms disclosed herein may be incorporated within filter module to detect unwanted content. Furthermore any filter within filter module may be associated with a specific content destination thereby enabling the anti spam engine to select specific filters within filter module to apply against a particular content based upon the intended destination.

For example control logic is operable to parse the parameters from content filter configuration file and in conjunction with the statistic collector reporter which may include any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions is operable to monitor and analyze all content received by and or generated for transmission from wireless device . In yet other embodiments only content having a given content destination may be intercepted for processing by the anti spam engine . Further in some embodiments the same content filter may be applied to all content .

In other embodiments different spam filters may be applied to different content based on for example at least one of a network service provider associated with the wireless device a hardware characteristic associated with the wireless device a predetermined characteristic associated with the content destination and a hardware requirement associated with the content as discussed in detail above.

Regardless of the source and destination of monitored content anti spam engine applies a specific content filter to each content generates calculated filter test result compares result with the corresponding predetermined filter test result and classifies the given content as spam content or as authorized content. If classified as spam content anti spam engine may then store the content in quarantine folder and or may automatically delete the content depending upon storage limit . If not classified as spam then anti spam engine initiates the delivery of content to the intended content destination .

Further for spam content statistic collector reporter is operable to collect and save user defined and or content filter configuration defined information based on reporting parameter . For instance statistic collector reporter may log device configuration information such as one or a combination of anti spam engine ID and or content filter configuration for example to identify how content was filtered and wireless device information such as hardware and software information for example information identifying the model of the device the resident hardware the resident software the state of selected hardware and or software components etc. and generally any information that may be useful in troubleshooting or determining a diagnostic status of wireless device all or a selected portion of the given content and or information associated with the content including but not limited to the calculated filter test result the content destination and source information identifying the originator of the content and including for example a URL a telephone number a MAC address an E mail address of the spam generator and a an identification of the generating client application on the wireless device. The collected calculated information may be saved in memory as part of spam log where the size of the spam log may be in one aspect configurable as well.

Furthermore for content classified as spam content and stored in a separate quarantine folder anti spam engine may alert a user of wireless device of their presence in order to initiate review of these content. Further anti spam engine may track a storage space used and or a time in storage and automatically delete spam content based on storage limit parameter . The actions of reviewing and or deleting spam content may be recorded in spam log is dictated by reporting parameter .

Through use of UI the user may have access to all configurable parameters with the additional capability of marking specific content as unauthorized i.e. placing the content into the quarantine folder retrieving content previously designated as unauthorized content from quarantine folder and controlling what spam elements to log and when to upload log . For example a user may update content filter upon reviewing unauthorized content and providing an input that identifies the given content as authorized content. For instance the user may identify the source of the given content as a non spammer and or an authorized source of content and content filter may be updated accordingly.

Reporting parameter may configure statistic collector reporter to selectively transmit log file to user manager across wireless network . The timing of log transmission is non limiting and may be transmitted at a predetermined time a predetermined interval and on an occurrence of a predetermined event such as upon detection of at least one unauthorized content or upon request by an authorized remote device such as user manager or operator workstation . Further reporting parameter may determine to whom to allow local access to log thereby allowing a remote device such as the user manager access to memory .

In one non limiting aspect spam log may be transmitted over an open communication connection between the wireless device and the wireless network . For example anti spam engine may piggyback spam log onto an ongoing voice or data call across an open connection. Alternatively in a cellular network configuration anti spam engine may transmit spam log to user manager through short message service SMS . Furthermore as noted above user manager may pull log from the wireless device across the network on a scheduled or ad hoc basis.

Non limiting anti spam engine module may also include a local wireless device control module . Under control of control logic local wireless device control module may execute a locally or remotely generated control command on the wireless device . The local device control module may request authorization of a control command before its execution.

For example control command may be any operation executable on wireless device including but not limited to receiving and activating a content filter configuration file downloaded from the network and uploading log file to the network .

Further anti spam engine module may include a limited service configuration operable to establish a limited access communications channel across the wireless network generally not available to the user of wireless device . For example the limited access communications channel may be used for transmitting log file receiving a content filter configuration file as well as for receiving generating control command .

The identification and set up of the limited access communications channel may be based on a limited service setting . Limited service setting may identify the type of communications that are allowed and may identify the associated communication channels that can be utilized. Limited service configuration may be received over the wireless network may be locally transferred to wireless device such as through a serial connection or may be preloaded on the wireless device .

Referring to user manager may be a server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device operable to analyze and take proactive measures to block spam from the network . In some aspects user manager may operate in conjunction with operator workstation to perform these functions. The user manager may comprise user manager anti spam module which may include at least one of any type of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to generate content filter configuration file and analyze spam log from wireless device .

Furthermore there may be separate servers or computer devices associated with user manager working in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless device and user manager anti spam module . User manager may send software agents or applications to wireless device across wireless network such that the wireless device returns information from its resident applications and subsystems .

Referring to user manager anti spam module may include a configuration generator module that comprises hardware content software and or any other associated logic allowing configuration generator module to generate content filter configuration file . In one aspect configuration generator module may be operable to assemble the various components of a given content filter configuration file based on selections from a number of configurable parameters.

For example configuration logic may provide an authorized user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of content filters i.e. host based filtering rule based filtering Bayesian statistical analysis noise filters and Sender Policy Framework SPF or Sender ID filters.

In addition configuration logic may provide an authorized user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of content destinations including but not limited to resident client applications on wireless device and network devices on network in order to generate content filter configuration file .

Similarly configuration logic may provide an authorized user with the ability to select from a menu of at least one of a plurality of reporting parameters a plurality of control command parameters and a plurality of predetermined filter score result values . Alternatively rather than selecting the various configuration parameters individually configuration logic may provide an authorized user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of predetermined content filter configurations which may include predetermined groupings of the above noted parameters that comprise content filter configuration .

Furthermore what may be considered as spam by one network carrier may not be considered spam by another network carrier. Accordingly configuration logic may provide an authorized user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of predetermined network providers to thereby associate a given configuration with a given network service provider. As such different filtering configurations may be generated for different network providers and a device roaming from one provider to the next may resultingly receive a new filtering configuration and filter out different content depending on the network provider.

In addition identification of spam may be dependent upon the specific wireless device in operation. For example since spam may be based on the size of the content the use of more than a predetermined portion of memory may cause content to be classified as spam. In this case since different wireless devices have different memory sizes such a spam definition may be device specific. Other examples may be based on the processing ability the graphics ability etc. of the given wireless device. Accordingly configuration logic may provide an authorized user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of predetermined wireless device types .

Once the specific parameters of a given content filter configuration are determined then configuration logic may assign unique configuration ID to the given configuration and may store this configuration in a library for later recall such as among plurality of predetermined anti spam content filter configurations . Further configuration logic and or another component of user manager anti spam module may be operable to transmit configuration to one or more wireless devices . In some embodiments a command may be transmitted to activate the transmitted configuration or the anti spam engine on the wireless device itself may be configured to activate the newly transmitted configuration upon download.

User manager anti spam module may include information repository for storing one or more spam logs from one or more wireless devices . Information repository may include any type of memory or storage device compatible with user manager anti spam module .

In addition user manager anti spam module may comprise analyzer and report generator . Analyzer may include hardware and analysis logic such as decision making routines statistical programs and combinations thereof for analyzing and interpreting logs and generating report . Furthermore user manager anti spam module may be operable to make report available for viewing by an authorized user as well as to generate and transmit an E mail message including at least portions of report to a networked device such as to operator workstation . For example report may group unauthorized content based on predetermined parameters such as the originator sender the destination wireless device and or client application some portion of the content such as a word name or file etc.

Referring to the user manager anti spam module may further comprise a remote device control module operable by execution of control logic to receive generate control command to from operator workstation and or wireless device . For example control command may comprise operator identification ID and a control activity . Operator ID may be some manner of identifying the originator of control command . For example operator ID may be a name a number a digital signature a hash or any other type of data or value that may be associated with an authorized user. Further operator ID may not be explicitly contained in the control command but rather derived from the origin of control command .

Control activity may be the operation to be performed on wireless device by anti spam engine module through executing control command . As mentioned above the operation may include downloading configuration and uploading log . Before executing or forwarding the control command remote device control module may execute permission logic to verify the authenticity or authority of the party issuing control command .

For instance certain operators may be restricted to certain control activities or restricted to controlling certain wireless devices. The authorization of a control command may simply be a prompt to operator workstation to confirm whether operator workstation actually wishes to execute control activity on wireless device . Alternatively permission logic may parse operator ID and control activity from control command and correlate these parameters with a database of a plurality of operator IDs a plurality of control permissions and a plurality of wireless device identifications IDs in order to generate a permission decision .

It should be noted however that the plurality of operator IDs the plurality of control permissions and the plurality of wireless device identifications IDs may be correlated in any manner. For example control command may contain an operator ID and a control activity of update content filter configuration file for a particular one of the plurality of wireless device identifications . Permission logic may search the database of control permissions and operator IDs to determine if the operator was permitted to push a new configuration on the given wireless device .

Referring now to operator workstation may be operable to enable an authorized user to review report communicate with a user of wireless device download the anti spam engine and or content filter configuration file to wireless device and upload the spam log from the wireless device . Furthermore the operator though the operation of the operator workstation may be operable to request that the message center block specific spam from accessing the network .

Operator workstation may comprise an input mechanism and an output mechanism interconnected to a computer platform . The input mechanism and the output mechanism may be similar to their respective counterparts and on wireless device .

The operator workstation may further comprise a memory for storing applications and data files a processing engine and a communications module operable to transmit and receive content between the operator workstation the user manager wireless device as well as any network component on wireless network . Furthermore the communications module may be operable to transmit voice over the network thereby allowing an operator to engage in voice communications with any wireless device user or other authorized personnel.

Memory may comprise an operator control module made executable by processing engine . As the number of operator workstations and the number of operators are non limiting an operator ID parameter previously discussed in reference to may be entered into memory to log in to the network and identify that operator to network components.

The operator control module may itself comprise operator anti spam logic operable in conjunction with Graphic User Interface GUI logic input mechanism and output mechanism to guide the operator through any spam analysis and command activity selection and transmission. The GUI logic may control for example browser communications E mail communication text messaging voice communication report presentation as well providing a menu for selecting and transmitting any control command to the user manager and wireless device .

The operator control module may further comprise a remote device control module similar to the remote device control module of the user manager module . Similar to the remote device control module the operator based remote device control module may generate a control command operable on the wireless device to perform a variety of activities including but not limited to uploading log downloading anti spam engine and or configuration .

Although the user of operator workstation may normally be a person the workstation may be a computing device comprising hardware software content and combinations thereof for analyzing and responding to report or to an external communication such as from the user of the wireless device . Such software may include algorithms decision making routines statistical programs etc. for analyzing and interpreting report . Further as with the user manager anti spam module the operator workstation may reside on any network device of wireless network such as on user manager another server connected to the network or even on a wireless device .

Referring to wireless network may include any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between wireless device and any other device connected to wireless network . Further wireless network may include all network components and all connected devices that form the network. For example wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring back to message center may include a processor a memory and a middleware program disposed in the memory the middleware program operable to handle content sent for use by other programs using a messaging application program interface API . A messaging center can usually queue and prioritize content as needed and saves each of the client programs from having to perform these services.

According to system user manager may communicate over the wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with data repository for storing spam information such as spam log gathered from the wireless device . Further a data management server may be in communication with user manager to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. User manager data repository and data management server may be present along with any other network components needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. It is through the user manager the data repository and the data management server that spam detected by the wireless device may result in the carrier network eventually blocking the detected spam from wireless devices and or network .

User manager and or data management server may communicate with the carrier network through data links and such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network may control the transmission of content generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information.

MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts content wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless device by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to a flowchart illustrating a method of spam detection on a wireless device may include obtaining anti spam engine at step . For example the anti spam engine module may be embodied within the hardware and or content of the wireless device during the manufacture of the device . Alternatively the anti spam engine may be pushed by user manager anti spam module to the wireless device or pulled from a user manager anti sparn module by the wireless device across a wireless network .

At step content filter configuration may be obtained by the wireless device in a similar manner as anti spam engine and may comprise parameters defining at least one content filter and reporting parameter .

At step the method includes intercepting content on the wireless device prior to delivery to a content destination. For example content may be intended for at least one client application resident on wireless device i.e. browser client IM client SMS client MMS client and E mail client is intercepted prior to delivery to the intended client application. In other embodiments content may be generated on the wireless device and is intercepted prior to being transmitted by communications module to another device on network .

At step at least one filter may be applied to the content . For example the filter may be any spam filtering mechanism such as a host based filter rule based filter i.e. filtering out content having a size greater than a user determined size where the filter may be specific to a given network carrier Bayesian statistical filter noise filter and Sender Policy Framework SPF or Sender Identification ID filter. At step content filter test result is determined based upon the application of the at least one filter to the content . The calculated filter test result may be a value that when compared to predetermined filter test result at step is operable to determine whether the content is spam.

If the content classification indicates that the content is not spam the content may at step be forwarded to the respective content destination which may be a wireless device resident client application or another network device. Alternatively if the content classification indicates that the content is likely spam the content is not forwarded to the intended client application. Furthermore the content may at step be stored in quarantine folder as spam content until such time or other predefined condition when the spam content may be deleted at step . The predefined condition such as storage limit may be obtained from the content filter configuration . Furthermore storing and deleting the quarantined content may be accomplished under control of a control command as part of the local device control module .

In addition upon determination of content as spam at step a record may be entered into spam log at step comprising at least a portion of content for example content destination and the source of the content and the calculated filter test result . The spam log may then at step be provided to a remote device such as the user manager and the operator position for further analysis.

At step a message may be received by the wireless device in response to the transmitted spam log . For example the message may comprise a control command instructing the wireless device to receive and upload an update to content filter configuration .

The method further includes at step generating a content filter configuration to the wireless device. For example the user manager may generate content filter configuration . The user manager may generate the filter configuration upon request from at least one of the wireless device the operator or the user manager anti spam logic . The filter configuration may be generated by the configuration generator module based upon the parameters and logic shown in . At step the content filter configuration may be provided to the wireless device . In one example user manager may transmit configuration to wireless device over network .

At step the method includes receiving a spam log from the wireless device based on the content filter configuration. In one example the user manager may receive at least one spam log generated by at least one wireless device by applying content filter configuration to content and transmitted over wireless network . The spam log may be stored in information repository where it may be further analyzed by analyzer which may include hardware and analysis logic such as decision making routines statistical programs and combinations thereof for analyzing and interpreting logs .

Based upon a result of the spam log analysis the user manager may at step generate a report and make this report available to an operator . The report may be made viewable on the user manager by an authorized user such as operator or the user manager may transmit at least portions of the report over network to the operator as an E mail.

Based upon an analysis of the spam log either by an operator or by the analyzer the user manager may at step either generate or receive a revised content filter configuration . Prior to accepting the content filter configuration transmitted by the operator position the remote device control module of the user manager is operable to verify the authorization of the operator to update the configuration of the wireless device .

The revised content filter configuration may be made available to the wireless device and or the message center at step . All or some portion of the filter configuration may be transmitted to the wireless device and or the message center over the wireless network . In some cases the wireless device may request authorization confirmation prior to accepting the revisions and the confirmation may be provided by control command generated by the remote device control module .

Referring to some embodiments of a method of spam detection on a wireless device may include receiving at step at least a portion of an anti spam engine onto wireless device . For example the anti spam engine module may be embodied within the hardware and or content of the wireless device during the manufacture of the device . Alternatively the anti spam engine may be pushed by user manager anti spam module to the wireless device or pulled from a user manager anti spam module by the wireless device across a wireless network depending for example on whether or not the wireless device has the latest version of the anti spam engine module for the respective wireless device . The pushing or pulling of the anti spam engine to the wireless device may be configurable in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event.

When activated in some embodiments anti spam engine may have a rudimentary content filter configuration . In some embodiments a user may further configure the anti spam engine by means of input mechanism and UI at step . Alternatively a new and or updated content filter configuration may be pushed by a user manager anti spam module to the wireless device or may be pulled from a user manager anti spam module by the wireless device across wireless network at step . The loading and activation of configuration may be initiated in any manner for example by ad hoc request by the user by a predetermined event such as activation power up and a predetermined schedule.

After configuration the anti spam engine may at step operate on wireless device as a background process processing at least a portion of an incoming content received by communications module and stored in memory. The content may be received at step from a spam generator . Although the statistic collector reporter may apply a common filter to all content types in some embodiments the statistic collector reporter may determine a client identification associated with each content and apply the corresponding filter to each content based on the given content filter configuration . Configurable client identifications may include but are not limited to browser SSM MMS IM and E mail clients. Based upon a result of applying rules comprising the applied filter that is a filter result some content may be forwarded to their intended client while other content may be classified as spam and stored in quarantine folder .

In some aspects the filter result may result in a calculated value that when compared to a predetermined filter test value is operable to determine whether the content is authorized or is to be classified as spam.

Depending upon the at least one spam filter and the parameters of the content filter configuration file the anti spam engine may be operable to detect received spam quarantine the spam in quarantine folder and create a log entry in log . The log entry configurable and non limiting may comprise the spam content and or additional information such sender information filter result derived by applying content filter to the received content etc.

Furthermore unauthorized content stored in the quarantine folder may be removed based on the storage limit parameter .

Based upon reporting parameters log may at step be uploaded to user manager anti spam module . Such a mechanism may include a standard HTTP an FTP or other data transfer protocol. In other embodiments the collected log file may be uploaded using any communication means the wireless device may access.

At step user manager anti spam module may store spam log in information repository analyze the contents of the spam log and generate a report based upon that analysis.

At step the user manager anti spam module may transmit the report to an operator workstation for further analysis and action. Report may include any form of output that represents analysis of log and other information contained in the information repository as well as any other associated information such as reports of spam new filtering techniques etc.

Although user manager anti spam module may generate report the user manager and its corresponding components may be operable to present a view of spam related information collected from the wireless device in any form such as tables maps graphics views plain text interactive programs or web pages or any other display or presentation of the data. For example user manager anti spam module may present content authorization related information on a monitor or display device and or may transmit this information such as via electronic mail to another computer device for further analysis or review through such mechanisms as through a standard HTTP an FTP or some other data transfer protocol.

At step an authorized user of operator workstation may analyze report and decide for example to contact message center . In one aspect the operator workstation may transmit at step an appropriately composed message to the user manager to be forwarded at step to the message center . In an alternate embodiment the operator workstation may send a message directly to the message center . Such a message may be in any format suitable to both the sender and receiver including but not limited to E mail SMS text messaging and telephonic communication.

Based upon the received message from the operator the message center may update its own filters and at step block future content from spam generator .

The wireless device may require a download of the anti spam module or may simply require an update to the content filter configuration file . At step the operator workstation is operable to transmit a message to the user manager requesting the user manager module to push at step anti spam module and or a content filter configuration file to the wireless device .

Further at step a control command may be generated by the operator workstation and be forwarded to the wireless device . The control command may operate to verify the authenticity and authorization of the operator user manager to command the wireless device to perform a specific action. In one non limiting aspect remote device control module may execute permission logic to make permission decision as to whether or not to relay an operator generated control command to a specific wireless device .

Whether or not the operator workstation had initiated a download of the anti spam engine and or the content filter configuration file new unauthorized or junk content received by the wireless device at step may at step be filtered and prevented from reaching their targeted client. In addition the filtered content are logged in log file which based upon reporting parameters may be uploaded to user manger for analysis at step . Similar to the message sequence of a report may be generated by the user manager at step and forwarded to the operator workstation at step .

Steps and of operating similarly to steps and of enable the user of operator workstation to analyze spam report and take the appropriate steps to have the message center block similar spam attacks from clogging network .

In another aspect not shown upon a user complaint the operator workstation may simply send a request to the wireless device to upload the current log and or upload the currently active configuration without updating the content filter configuration file in order to determine the current level of spam protection on the wireless device .

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

