---

title: Colorless single-crystal CVD diamond at rapid growth rate
abstract: The present invention relates to a method for producing colorless, single-crystal diamonds at a rapid growth rate. The method for diamond production includes controlling temperature of a growth surface of the diamond such that all temperature gradients across the growth surface of the diamond are less than about 20° C., and growing single-crystal diamond by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition on the growth surface of a diamond at a growth temperature in a deposition chamber having an atmosphere, wherein the atmosphere comprises from about 8% to about 20% CHper unit of Hand from about 5 to about 25% Oper unit of CH. The method of the invention can produce diamonds larger than 10 carats. Growth rates using the method of the invention can be greater than 50 μm/hour.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07883684&OS=07883684&RS=07883684
owner: Carnegie Institution of Washington
number: 07883684
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060523
---
This application claims priority of copending provisional Application No. 60 684 168 filed on May 25 2005.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. EAR 0421020 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a method of producing a diamond. More particularly the present invention relates to a method of producing a colorless single crystal diamond at a rapid growth rate using Microwave Plasma Chemical Vapor Deposition MPCVD within a deposition chamber.

Large scale production of synthetic diamond has long been an objective of both research and industry. Diamond in addition to its gem properties is the hardest known material has the highest known thermal conductivity and is transparent to a wide variety of electromagnetic radiation. Therefore it is valuable because of its wide range of applications in a number of industries in addition to its value as a gemstone.

For at least the last twenty years a process of producing small quantities of diamond by chemical vapor deposition CVD has been available. As reported by B. V. Spitsyn et al. in Vapor Growth of Diamond on Diamond and Other Surfaces Journal of Crystal Growth vol. 52 pp. 219 226 the process involves CVD of diamond on a substrate by using a combination of methane or another simple hydrocarbon gas and hydrogen gas at reduced pressures and temperatures of 800 1200 C. The inclusion of hydrogen gas prevents the formation of graphite as the diamond nucleates and grows. Growth rates of up to 1 m hour have been reported with this technique.

Subsequent work for example that of Kamo et al. as reported in Diamond Synthesis from Gas Phase in Microwave Plasma Journal of Crystal Growth vol. 62 pp. 642 644 demonstrated the use of Microwave Plasma Chemical Vapor Deposition MPCVD to produce diamond at pressures of 1 8 kPa at temperatures of 800 1000 C. with microwave power of 300 700 W at a frequency of 2.45 GHz. A concentration of 1 3 methane gas was used in the process of Kamo et al. Maximum growth rates of 3 m hour have been reported using this MPCVD process. In the above described processes and in a number of other reported processes the growth rates are limited to only a few micrometers per hour.

Until recently known higher growth rate processes have only produced polycrystalline forms of diamond. However new methods of improving the growth rates of single crystal chemical vapor deposition SC CVD diamonds have recently been reported and these methods have opened new opportunities for the application of diamond for gems optics and electronics 1 2 . Several other groups have started to grow SC CVD diamonds 3 4 5 . SC CVD diamonds reported so far however are relatively small are discolored and or are flawed. Large e.g. over three carats as commercially available high pressure high temperature HPHT synthetic Ib yellow diamond colorless flawless synthetic diamonds remain a challenge due to slow growth and other technical difficulties 7 8 9 . The color of SC CVD diamonds in the absence of HPHT annealing can range from light brown to dark brown thus limiting their applicability as gems in optics in scientific research and in diamond based electronics 6 7 8 . SC CVD diamonds have been characterized as type IIa i.e. possessing less than 10 ppm nitrogen and have coloration and other optical properties arising from various defects and or impurities.

Single crystal brown SC CVD diamonds with 4.5 mm in thickness can be produced at high growth rates of about 100 micrometers hour with nitrogen added and deposited on cut off SC CVD seed instead of natural or HPHT synthetic substrates 1 2 . A diamond crystal of 10 carats is approximately five times that of commercially available HPHT diamond and the SC CVD diamond reported in References 7 8 9 10 . Single crystal diamonds with larger mass greater than 100 carats are needed as anvils for high pressure research and crystals with large lateral dimensions greater than 2.5 cm are required for applications such as laser windows and substrates for diamond based electronic devices. High optical quality UV visible IR transmission and chemical purity are required for all of the above applications. The large SC CVD diamonds produced so far present problems because of the brownish color.

Attempts have been made to add oxygen in the growth of polycrystalline CVD diamond. These effects include extending the region of diamond formation 12 reducing silicon and hydrogen impurity levels 13 preferentially etching the non diamond carbon 11 14 and attempting to prevent diamond cracks due to an absence of impurities 13 . These attempts were directed to etching and the synthesis of polycrystalline diamonds but not to the production of SC CVD diamond.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 858 078 to Hemley et al. is directed to an apparatus and method for diamond production. The disclosed apparatus and method although pioneering as a means of rapidly producing single crystal CVD diamonds can lead to the production of diamonds with a light brown color.

Thus there remains a need to produce large high quality single crystal diamonds at a rapid growth rate and to produce them colorless i.e. high UV visible IR transmission .

Accordingly the present invention is directed to a method for producing diamond that substantially obviates one or more of the problems due to the limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

An object of the invention relates to a method for producing a diamond in a microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition system at a rapid growth rate.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and will be apparent in part from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The objectives and other advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the present invention as embodied and broadly described an embodiment of the invention includes controlling temperature of a growth surface of the diamond such that all temperature gradients across the growth surface of the diamond are less than about 20 C. and growing single crystal diamond by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition on the growth surface of a diamond at a growth temperature in a deposition chamber having an atmosphere wherein the atmosphere comprises from about 8 to about 20 CHper unit of Hand from about 5 to about 25 Oper unit of CH.

In another embodiment the method for diamond production includes controlling temperature of a growth surface of the diamond and growing single crystal diamond by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition on the growth surface of a diamond at a growth temperature in a deposition chamber having an atmosphere with a pressure of about 100 to about 300 torr wherein the atmosphere comprises from about 8 to about 20 CHper unit of Hand from about 5 to about 25 Oper unit of CH.

In another embodiment of the invention the method for diamond production includes controlling temperature of a growth surface of the diamond and growing single crystal diamond by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition on the growth surface of a diamond at a growth temperature from about 700 C. to about 1100 C. in a deposition chamber wherein the atmosphere comprises from about 8 to about 20 CHper unit of Hand from about 5 to about 25 Oper unit of CH.

In another embodiment of the invention the method for diamond production includes controlling temperature of a growth surface of the diamond and growing single crystal diamond by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition on the growth surface of a diamond at a growth temperature in a deposition chamber wherein the atmosphere comprises from about 8 to about 20 CHper unit of Hand from about 5 to about 25 Oper unit of CH and wherein the growth rate is greater than about 50 m hour.

In another embodiment of the invention the method for diamond production includes controlling temperature of a growth surface of the diamond and growing single crystal diamond by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition on the growth surface of a diamond at a growth temperature in a deposition chamber wherein the atmosphere comprises from about 8 to about 20 CHper unit of Hand from about 5 to about 25 Oper unit of CH and wherein the diamond grows to be over 10 carats.

In another embodiment of the invention the method for diamond production includes controlling temperature of a growth surface of the diamond and growing single crystal diamond by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition on the growth surface of a diamond at a growth temperature in a deposition chamber wherein the atmosphere comprises from about 8 to about 20 CHper unit of Hand from about 5 to about 25 Oper unit of CH and wherein the diamond produced is substantially colorless and has a UV VIS absorption spectrum substantially similar to that of a man made HPHT type IIa diamond.

In another embodiment of the invention the method for diamond production includes A method for diamond production comprising controlling temperature of a growth surface of the diamond such that the temperature of the growing diamond crystals is in the range of 900 1400 C. and the diamond is mounted in a heat sink holder made of a material that has a high melting point and high thermal conductivity to minimize temperature gradients across the growth surface of the diamond and growing single crystal diamond by microwave plasma chemical vapor deposition on the growth surface of a diamond in a deposition chamber having an atmosphere wherein the atmosphere comprises from about 8 to about 20 CHper unit of Hand from about 5 to about 25 Oper unit of CH.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. is a diagram of a diamond production system according to an embodiment of the present invention in which a deposition apparatus is depicted in cross section. The diamond production system includes a Microwave Plasma Chemical Vapor Deposition MPCVD system that contains a deposition apparatus as well as reactant and plasma controls . For example the MPCVD system can be a SEKI AX6550 made by Seki Technotron Corp. Tokyo Japan. This system is capable of producing 6 kilowatts of power output at a frequency of 2.45 GHz. As another example the MPCVD system can be a SEKI AX5250 made by Seki Technotron Corp. This system is capable of producing 5 kilowatts of power output at a frequency of 2.45 GHz. As another example the MPCVD system can be a WAVEMAT MPDR 330 313 EHP made by Wavemat Inc. Such a MPCVD system is capable of producing a 6 kilowatt power output at a frequency of 2.45 GHz and has a chamber volume of approximately 5 000 cubic centimeters. However the MPCVD system specifications can vary with the scale of a deposition process in terms of size of the deposition area and or rate of deposition.

The MPCVD system includes a chamber within the deposition apparatus that is at least in part defined by a bell jar which is used in sealing the chamber. Prior to MPCVD operations the air within the chamber is withdrawn. For example a first mechanical type of vacuum pump is used to draw down the chamber and then a second high vacuum type of vacuum pump such as a turbopump or cryopump further draws out the air inside the chamber. Plasma is generated within the chamber by a set of plasma electrodes spaced apart within the chamber. Neither the pumps nor the plasma electrodes are illustrated in .

The deposition apparatus also includes a specimen holder assembly installed within the chamber of the MPCVD system . Typically a specimen holder assembly is positioned in the center of the deposition chamber floor of the deposition apparatus as shown in . The specimen holder assembly shown in is illustrated in cross section. The specimen holder assembly can include a stage installed in the floor of the deposition apparatus .

As shown in the stage can be attached to the deposition chamber floor using bolts and . The stage can be molybdenum or any other type of material having a high thermal conductivity. In addition the stage can be cooled during the process of growing diamond by a coolant passing through a coolant pipe within the stage . The coolant can be water a refrigerant or other types of fluid with sufficient heat carrying capacity to cool the stage. Although the coolant pipe is shown as having a U shaped path through the stage in the coolant pipe can have a helically shaped path or other types of paths within the stage to more efficiently cool the stage .

Positioned on the stage of the specimen holder assembly as shown in is a set ring having set screws such as screws and for tightening collets and around a sheath that holds diamond . The sheath is a holder which makes a thermal contact with a side surface of the diamond adjacent to an edge of a top surface of the diamond . Because collets and are tightened onto the sheath by screws the sheath holds the diamond in a stationary position and acts as a heat sink to prevent the formation of twins or polycrystalline diamond along the edges of the growth surface of the diamond .

The diamond can include a diamond seed portion and a grown diamond portion . The diamond seed portion can be a manufactured diamond or a natural diamond. In one embodiment the seed is a member of a group consisting of a natural colorless Ia diamond a colorless IIa diamond an HPHT synthetic yellow Ib diamond and an SC CVD diamond. In another embodiment the seed is an SC CVD diamond. In another embodiment the seed is an SC CVD diamond that has 100 faces. In another embodiment the seed is an SC CVD diamond that has six 100 faces. In another embodiment all top 100 surfaces of the seed have areas from about 1 to about 100 mm.

As shown in the top surface or growth surface of the diamond is positioned within a region of the plasma having a resonant power at a height H above the deposition chamber floor . The resonant power can be the maximum resonant power within the plasma or a degree thereof. The top surface or growth surface of the diamond is initially the diamond seed portion and is then the grown diamond portion as the diamond grows.

As shown in the top edge of the sheath is at a distance D just below the top surface or top edges of the diamond . The distance D should be sufficiently large enough to expose the edges of the growth surface of the diamond to the plasma . However the distance D can not be so large as to prevent the heat sinking effect of the sheath that prevents the formation of twins or polycrystalline diamond along the edges of the growth surface of the diamond . Thus D should be within a specified distance range such as 0 1.5 mm. The distance D and the height H as shown in are manually set using the screws of the set ring by positioning the diamond in the sheath positioning the sheath in the collets and and then tightening the screws .

As shown in a rectangular sheath which can either be a short length of rectangular tubing or a sheet folded into a rectangle is positioned in the collets and with a diamond therein. The sheath can be molybdenum or any other type of material having a high thermal conductivity. The screws are tightened on the collets such that the sheath is tightened onto the diamond such that the sheath acts as a heat sink on the four side surfaces of the diamond . As shown in the sheath also makes thermal contact to the stage . The collets make thermal contact with the stage and serve as thermal masses for transferring heat from the sheath into the stage . The tightening of the sheath onto the diamond increases the quality of the thermal contact between the diamond and the sheath. As shown in the sheath can also make thermal contact to the stage . Although a rectangular shape is shown in for both the sheath and the diamond the sheath and the diamond can have any geometric shape such as elliptical circular or polygonal. The shape of the sheath or holder should be substantially the same as the diamond.

In the exemplary embodiment of the invention shown in the stage can have a diameter of approximately 10.1 cm. and the sheath can be approximately 2.5 cm wide. Regardless of the dimensions selected for the stage and the sheath the thermal mass of the stage molybdenum sheath and collets can be adjusted to provide an optimal heat sink for the diamond . Additionally the path and extent of the coolant pipes can be modified for greater cooling effect especially if a particularly large diamond is to be produced. Further a refrigerant or other low temperature fluids can be used as a coolant.

Molybdenum is only one potential material used in the stage set ring collets sheath and other components. Molybdenum is suitable for these components because it has a high melting point which is 2617 C. and a high thermal conductivity. In addition a large graphite build up does not tend to form on molybdenum. Other materials such as molybdenum tungsten alloys or engineered ceramics having high melting points above the process temperature and a thermal conductivity comparable to that of molybdenum can alternatively be used instead of molybdenum.

Returning to another component of the diamond production system is an noncontact measurement device such as an infrared pyrometer which is used to monitor the temperature of the diamond seed and later the grown diamond during the growth process without contacting the diamond . The infrared pyrometer can be for example a MMRON M77 78 two color infrared pyrometer from Mikron Instruments Inc. of Oakland N.J. The infrared pyrometer is focused on the diamond seed or later on the grown diamond with a target area measure of 2 mm. By using the infrared pyrometer the temperature of the growth surface of the diamond is measured to within 1 C.

The diamond production system of also includes an MPCVD process controller . The MPCVD process controller is typically provided as a component of the MPCVD system . As is well known in the art the MPCVD process controller exercises feedback control over a number of MPCVD parameters including but not limited to the process temperature gas mass flow plasma parameters and reactant flow rates by using the reactant and plasma controls . The MPCVD process controller operates in cooperation with a main process controller . The main process controller takes input from the MPCVD controller the infrared pyrometer and from other measuring devices of other components in the diamond production system and carries out executive level control over the process. For example the main process controller can measure and control coolant temperatures and or flow rates of the coolant in the stage using a coolant controller .

The main process controller can be a general purpose computer a special purpose computing system such as an ASIC or any other known type of computing system for controlling MPCVD processes. Depending on the type of main process controller the MPCVD process controller can be integrated into the main process controller so as to consolidate the functions of the two components. For example the main process controller can be a general purpose computer equipped with the LabVIEW programming language from National Instruments Inc. of Austin Tex. and the LabVIEW program such that the general purpose computer is equipped to control record and report all of the process parameters.

The main process controller in controls the temperatures of the growth surface such that all the temperature gradients across the growth surface of the diamond are less than or equal to 20 C. Precise control over growth surface temperatures and growth surface temperature gradients prevents the formation of polycrystalline diamond or twins such that a large single crystal diamond can be grown. The ability to control all of the temperature gradients across the growth surface of the diamond is influenced by several factors including the heat sinking capability of the stage the positioning of the top surface of the diamond in the plasma the uniformity of the plasma that the growth surface of the diamond is subjected to the quality of thermal transfer from edges of the diamond via the holder or sheath to the stage the controllability of the microwave power coolant flow rate coolant temperature gas flow rates reactant flow rate and the detection capabilities of the infrared pyrometer . Based upon temperature measurements from the pyrometer the main process controller controls the temperature of the growth surface such that all temperature gradients across the growth surface are less than 20 C. by adjusting at least one of microwave power to the plasma the coolant flow rate coolant temperature gas flow rates and reactant flow rate.

The spot size of the infrared pyrometer can affect the ability to monitor temperature gradients across the top surface of the diamond and thus the growth rate of the diamond. For example if the size of the diamond is large in comparison to the spot size of the infrared pyrometer the temperature at each of the edges of the growth surface of the diamond can be outside of the field of view of the infrared pyrometer. Thus multiple infrared pyrometers should be used for a diamond with a large growing area. Each of the multiple pyrometers should be focused on different edges about the surface of the diamond and preferably near the corners if any. Thus the main process controller as shown in should be programmed to integrate overlapping fields of view from the multiple pyrometers to produce a contiguous map of the temperatures across the diamond s surface or interpolate between non overlapping fields of view to a produce an interpreted map of the temperatures across the diamond s growth surface. In the alternative the temperature gradient between a single edge or corner point with respect to the middle of the growth surface can be monitored as indicative of the maximum temperature gradient that exists across the growth surface of the diamond.

In addition to the infrared pyrometer for temperature control other process control instrumentation may be included in the diamond production system . Additional process control instrumentation can include equipment for determining the type and quality of the diamond while the growth process is underway. Examples of such equipment include visible infrared and Raman spectrometers which are optical in nature and can be focused on the same point as the infrared pyrometer to obtain data on the structure and quality of the diamond while growth is underway. If additional equipment is provided it can be connected to the main process controller such that the main process controller controls the instrumentation and presents the results of the analytical methods along with other status information. Additional process control instrumentation may be particularly useful in experimental settings in scaling up a process to produce larger diamonds and in quality control efforts for an existing diamond production system and corresponding process.

As the diamond grows both the distance D and the height H increase. As the distance D increases the heat sinking capacity of the sheath for the top edges of the growth surface of the diamond reduces. In addition characteristics of the plasma such as temperature and or consistency change as the growth surface of the diamond extends into the plasma . In the diamond production system the growth process is periodically halted so that the position of the diamond can be adjusted downward with respect to the sheath to reduce the distance D and both the diamond and the sheath can be adjusted downward with respect to the deposition chamber floor to reduce the height H. This repositioning allows the diamond growth on the growth surface of the diamond to occur within a desired region of resonant power within the plasma allows the infrared pyrometer and any additional instruments to remain focused on the growth surface of the diamond and has the effect of maintaining an efficient thermal contact for sinking heat from the edges of the growth surface of the diamond . However repeatedly halting the growth process can be inconvenient for large scale production and increases the chance of introducing contamination into the process if not carefully performed.

As shown in the diamond is mounted on a diamond actuator member within the sheath of the specimen holder assembly . The diamond is slidably mounted within the sheath on a diamond actuator member that translates along an axis substantially perpendicular to the growth surface. The diamond actuator member protrudes through a stage and is controlled from underneath the stage with a diamond control which is shown as a part of the coolant and diamond holder controls in . The diamond actuator member is for setting the height H between the growth surface of the diamond and the deposition chamber floor . Although the diamond actuator member in is shown as a threaded rod the diamond actuator member can be of any geometric shape that enables positioning of the diamond at height or position above the deposition chamber floor. Those skilled in the art will realize that components placed within the bell jar such as the diamond actuator member should be vacuum compatible so as to avoid problems in maintaining the desired atmosphere.

The actuator not shown for the diamond actuator member is a motor not shown . However the actuator can be any one of a number of known types of actuator depending on the size of diamond that is to be grown the growth rate and the level of movement precision required. For example if the diamond is small in size a piezoelectric actuator may be used. If the diamond is relatively large or can be grown relatively large a motorized computer controllable actuator is preferred. Regardless of the particular actuator employed the main process controller controls the movement of the diamond actuator member so that the diamond can be automatically moved downward as diamond growth progresses.

In addition a holder actuator member protrudes through the stage and is controlled from underneath the stage with holder control which is shown as a part of the coolant and diamond holder controls in . The holder actuator member translates along an axis substantially perpendicular to the growth surface and is for maintaining the distance D between an edge of the growth surface of the diamond and a top edge of the holder or sheath . A diamond production system can have a diamond actuator member a holder actuator member or a combination of both.

The holder actuator member in is threaded into the stage and the diamond actuator member is threaded into the holder actuator member . By this arrangement the diamond and holder controls of the coolant and diamond holder controls shown in can move the diamond the sheath or both the sheath and the diamond . Although the holder actuator member in is shown as a threaded cylinder with threading on the inside for the diamond actuator member and threads on the outside for threading into the stage the holder actuator member can be of any geometric shape that enables maintaining a specified distance range between an edge of the growth surface of the diamond and the top edge of the holder or sheath . Those skilled in the art will realize that components placed within the bell jar such as the holder actuator member or a combination of both the holder actuator member and the diamond actuator member should be vacuum compatible so as to avoid problems in maintaining the desired atmosphere.

As shown in a thermal mass is positioned within a recess of the stage . The holder or sheath is slidably positioned within thermal mass such that thermal energy is transferred from the sheath to the stage . The top surface of the thermal mass can be contoured such that heat can be transferred from the sheath while minimizing the electrical effect of the thermal mass on the plasma . Thermal masses and in respectively are examples of other contoured thermal masses with different cross sectional shapes which in the alternative can be used in lieu of the thermal mass shown in . A thermal mass can be made of molybdenum. Other materials such as molybdenum tungsten alloys or engineered ceramics having high melting points above the process temperature and a thermal conductivity comparable to that of molybdenum can be used as a thermal mass for transferring heat from a side of the diamond to a stage.

By minimizing the electrical effect of thermal mass on the plasma the region within the plasma in which the diamond is grown will be more uniform. In addition higher pressure can be used in growing diamond which will increase the growth rate of single crystal diamond. For example pressures can vary from about 100 torr to about 300 torr and single crystal growth rates can be from 50 to 150 microns per hour. Using a higher pressure such as 400 torr or higher is possible because the uniformity shape and or position of the plasma are not as readily affected by thermal mass which is contoured to remove heat from the edges of the growth surface of the diamond and minimizes the electrical effect of the thermal mass on the plasma . In addition less microwave power such as 1 2 kW is needed to maintain the plasma . Otherwise a lower pressure and or increased microwave power would have to be used to maintain the uniformity shape and or position of the plasma .

As the diamond grows both the distance D and the height H increase. As the distance D increases the heat sinking capacity of the sheath for the top edges of the growth surface of the diamond decreases. In addition characteristics of the plasma such as temperature change as the growth surface of the diamond extends into the plasma . In the diamond production system the growth process is halted when the diamond reaches a predetermined thickness since the distance D and the height H can be controlled by the main process controller via the coolant and diamond holder controls using the holder actuator member and diamond actuator member during the diamond growing process. This repositioning either manually or automatically under control of the controller allows the diamond growth on the growth surface of the diamond to occur within a desired region of resonant power within the plasma . Further repositioning allows the infrared pyrometer and any additional instruments to remain focused on the growth surface of the diamond and can maintain an efficient sinking of heat from the edges of the growth surface of the diamond .

As shown in the diamond is mounted on the diamond actuator member and within a contoured thermal mass which acts as a holder. By placing the diamond directly within the contoured thermal mass thermal efficiencies for heat sinking the diamond are increased. However the plasma may be more easily affected since the whole contoured thermal mass is moved by the holder actuator in the stage with a diamond holder control which is shown as a part of the coolant and diamond holder controls in . Thus the main process controller should take into account such a factors for appropriately controlling the plasma and or other parameters of the growth process. In the alternative the convex thermal mass shown in the slant sided thermal mass in a slant sided cylindrical apex thermal mass in or other geometric configurations can be used in lieu of the concave thermal mass in .

As referred to in step S the temperature of the growth surface of the diamond either the diamond seed or grown diamond is measured. For example the pyrometer in takes a measurement of the growth surface which is the top surface of the growing diamond portion and provides the measurement to the main process controller . The measurement is taken such that a thermal gradient across the growth surface of the diamond can be determined by the main process controller or at least the temperature of an edge of the growth surface of the diamond are inputted into the main process controller.

The main process controller such as main process controller shown in is used in controlling the temperature of the growth surface as referred to in S in . The main process controller controls the temperature by maintaining thermal gradients of less than 20 C. across the growth surface. While controlling the temperature of the growth surface a determination is made to whether the diamond should be repositioned in the holder as shown in step S of . If the main controller can not control the temperature of the growth surface of the diamond such that all temperature gradients across the growth surface are less than 20 C. by controlling the plasma gas flows and coolant flows then the growth process is suspended so that the diamond can be repositioned in the holder as shown in step S of for better heat sinking of the diamond and or better positioning of the diamond within the plasma. If the main controller can maintain all of the thermal gradients across the growth surface of the diamond to be less than 20 C. then the growing of the diamond on the growth surface occurs as shown in step S of .

Measuring the temperature of a growth surface of the diamond controlling temperature of the growth surface and growing diamond on the growth surface occurs until it is determined that the diamond should be repositioned as shown in . Although measuring controlling growing and the acts of determining are shown and described as steps they are not necessarily sequential and can be concurrent with one another. For example the step of growing diamond on the growth surface can occur while measuring the temperature of a growth surface of the diamond and controlling temperature of the growth surface are occurring.

The repositioning of the diamond as referred to in step S can be done manually or with a robotic mechanism. In addition a determination can be made of whether the diamond has reached a predetermined or desired thickness as shown in step S of . The determination can be based on an actual measurement via mechanical or optical devices. In another example the determination can be based on the length of processing time in view of known growth rates for the process. If the diamond has reached the predetermined thickness then the growing process is complete as referred to by step in . If the diamond has not reached the predetermined thickness then the growth process is started again and continues with measuring the temperature of a growth surface of the diamond controlling temperature of the growth surface and growing diamond on the growth surface until it is determined that the diamond needs to be repositioned as shown in .

As referred to in step S the temperature of the growth surface of the diamond either the diamond seed or a newly grown diamond portion on the diamond seed is measured. For example the pyrometer in takes a measurement of the growth surface which is the top surface of the growing diamond portion and provides the measurement to the main process controller . In another example the pyrometer in takes a measurement of the growth surface which is the top surface of the seed diamond portion and provides the measurement to the main process controller . The measurement is taken such that thermal gradient across the growth surface of the diamond can be determined by the main process controller or at least the temperatures of an edge and the middle of the growth surface are inputted into the main process controller.

A main process controller such as main process controller or is used in controlling the temperature of the growth surface as referred to in S in . The main process controller controls the temperature of the growth surface of the diamond such that all temperature gradients across the growth surface are less than 20 C. While controlling the temperature of the growth surface a determination is made to whether the diamond needs to be repositioned in the holder as shown in step S of . If the main controller can not maintain the temperature of the growth surface of the diamond such that all temperature gradients across the growth surface are less than 20 C. by controlling the plasma gas flows and coolant flows then the diamond is repositioned while the diamond is growing as shown in with the YES path from step S to both of steps S and S. By repositioning the diamond within the holder the heat sinking of the edges of the growth surface is improved. In addition the growth surface can be positioned within an optimal region of the plasma having a consistency for maintaining all of the thermal gradients across the growth surface of the diamond to be less than 20 C. If the main controller can maintain all of the thermal gradients across the growth surface of the diamond to be less than 20 C. then the growing of the diamond on the growth surface occurs without repositioning as shown in the NO path from step S to step S of .

Measuring the temperature of a growth surface of the diamond controlling temperature of the growth surface growing diamond on the growth surface and repositioning the diamond in the holder occurs until it is determined that the diamond has reached a predetermined thickness. As referred to in step S of a determination is made of whether the diamond has reached a predetermined or desired thickness. The determination can be based on an actual measurement via mechanical or optical devices. For example a tracking program which records the depth or the amount in terms of distance that the diamond had to be repositioned during the growth process. In another example the determination can be based on the length of processing time in view of known growth rates for the growth process. If the diamond has reached the predetermined thickness then the growing process is complete as referred to by step in . If the diamond has not reached the predetermined thickness then the growth process continues with measuring the temperature of a growth surface of the diamond controlling temperature of the growth surface growing diamond on the growth surface and repositioning the diamond in the holder until it is determined that the diamond needs to be repositioned as shown in the NO path from S to within S of .

When implementing processes and diamond growth is usually continued as long as a step growth condition can be maintained. In general the step growth condition refers to growth in which diamond is grown on the growth surface of the diamond such that the diamond is smooth in nature without isolated outcroppings or twins. The step growth condition may be verified visually. Alternatively a laser could be used to scan the growth surface of the diamond . A change in laser reflectance would indicate the formation of outcroppings or twins. Such a laser reflectance could be programmed into the main process controller as a condition for stopping the growth process. For example in addition to determining if the diamond is a predetermined thickness a determination can also be made of whether a laser reflectance is being received.

In general the methods in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention are designed to create large colorless high quality diamonds with increased 100 growth rates wherein the growth is along three dimensions. In one embodiment of the invention oxygen is used in the gas mix at a ratio of about 1 50 Oper unit of CH. In another embodiment of the invention oxygen is used in the gas mix at a ratio of about 5 25 Oper unit of CH. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the presence of oxygen in the gas mix of the deposition chamber helps to reduce the incorporation of impurities in the diamond thus rendering the diamonds substantially colorless. During the growth process the methane concentration is in the range of about 6 12 . A hydrocarbon concentration greater than about 15 may cause excessive deposition of graphite inside the MPCVD chamber.

The process temperature may be selected from a range of about 700 1500 C. depending on the particular type of single crystal diamond that is desired or if oxygen is used. Polycrystalline diamond may be produced at higher temperatures and diamond like carbon may be produced at lower temperatures. In one embodiment of the invention the process temperature may be selected from a range of about 700 1100 C. In another embodiment of the invention the process temperature may be selected from a range of about 900 1100 C. During the growth process a pressure of about 100 400 torr is used. In one embodiment a pressure of about 100 300 torr is used. In another embodiment a pressure of about 160 220 torr is used.

In one embodiment of the invention the growth rate of the single crystal diamond is greater than about 10 m hour. In another embodiment the growth rate of the single crystal diamond is greater than about 50 m hour. In another embodiment the growth rate of the single crystal diamond is greater than about 100 m hour.

In one embodiment of the invention the single crystal diamond grows to be over 1.2 cm thick. In another embodiment of the invention the single crystal diamond grows to be over 5 carats in weight. In another embodiment of the invention the single crystal diamond grows to be over 10 carats. In another embodiment of the invention the single crystal diamond grows to be over 300 carats.

In one embodiment the diamond is grown on up to six 100 faces of an SC CVD diamond seed. In another embodiment the diamond grown on up to six 100 faces of the SC CVD diamond seed is greater than about 300 carats. In another embodiment the growth of the diamond can be substantially in two dimensions to produce a crystal of large lateral dimension e.g. a plate of at least about one inch square by polishing one of the longer surfaces and then growing the diamond crystal in a second orthogonal direction on that surface. In another embodiment the growth of the diamond can be in three dimensions. In another embodiment the growth of the diamond is substantially cubic. In another embodiment the substantially cubic diamond grown along three dimensions is at least one inch in each dimension.

The gas mix can also include N. When Nis used it is added to the gas mix at a ratio of about 0.2 3 Nper unit of CH. The addition of Nto the gas mix at this concentration creates more available growth sites enhances the growth rate and promotes 100 face growth.

A diamond growth process was conducted in the above described MPCVD chamber in . First a commercial 3.5 3.5 1.6 mmhigh pressure high temperature HPHT synthetic type Ib diamond seed was positioned in the deposition chamber. The diamond seed has polished smooth surfaces that were ultrasonically cleaned with acetone. The deposition surface was within two degrees of the 100 surface of the diamond seed.

Then the deposition chamber was evacuated to a base pressure of 10 3 torr. The infrared pyrometer was focused though a quartz window at an incident angle of 65 degrees on the growth surface of the diamond and had a minimum 2 mmdiameter spot size. Diamond growth was performed at 160 torr pressure using gas concentrations of 15 O CH and 12 CH H. The process temperature was 1020 C. and gas flow rates were 500 sccm H 60 sccm CH and 1.8 sccm O. Deposition was allowed to continue for 12 hours.

The resulting diamond was 4.2 4.2 2.3 mmunpolished and represented about 0.7 mm of growth on the seed crystal that was grown at a growth rate 58 microns per hour. The growth morphology indicated that the side growth rate was faster than the corner growth rate. The growth parameter was estimated at 2.5 3.0.

The deposited diamond was characterized using optical microscopy x ray diffraction XRD Raman spectroscopy and photoluminescence PL spectroscopy. The optical microscopy and X ray diffraction study of the resulting diamond confirmed that it was a single crystal. UV visible near infrared transmission spectra of the MPCVD grown diamond separated from the seed diamond is distinct from MPCVD diamond grown in the presence of Ngas and matches pure Type IIa diamond.

A number of MPCVD diamonds were produced according to the guidelines of Example 1 while varying the described process temperature. These experiments demonstrate the process temperature ranges for producing various types of diamond in the growth process according embodiments of the present invention.

The colors of diamond formed by the methods discussed above can be changed by annealing. For example a yellow of brown diamond can be annealed into a green diamond. Additional information with regard to the diamond produced in the examples described above is in a paper by the inventors entitled Very High Growth Rate Chemical Vapor Deposition of Single Crystal Diamond Proceedings of the National Academy of the Sciences Oct. 1 2002 volume 99 no. 20. pages 12523 12525 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Diamond produced by the above methods and apparatus will be sufficiently large defect free and translucent so as to be useful as for example windows in high power laser or synchrotron applications as anvils in high pressure apparatuses as cutting instruments as wire dies as components for electronics heat sinks substrates for electronic devices or as gems.

As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof it should also be understood that the above described embodiments are not limited by any of the details of the foregoing description unless otherwise specified but rather should be construed broadly within its spirit and scope as defined in the appended claims and therefore all changes and modifications that fall within the metes and bounds of the claims or equivalence of such metes and bounds are therefore intended to be embraced by the appended claims.

