---

title: Broadband analog to digital conversion using analog spectral recording
abstract: A method and apparatus for converting an analog waveform to a series of digital values includes receiving an input analog waveform to be digitized over a particular frequency band. A phase-sensitive frequency-domain representation of the input analog waveform is recorded. The phase-sensitive frequency-domain representation is read out and digitized to produce a spectral series of digital values. An output series of digital values that represent the analog waveform digitized over the particular frequency band is determined based on the spectral series. In some embodiments, the spectral series of digital values is produced with a conventional high dynamic range, low bandwidth digitizer that has a bandwidth at least a factor of two less than a width of the particular frequency band for digitizing the target analog waveform.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07471224&OS=07471224&RS=07471224
owner: Montana State University
number: 07471224
owner_city: Bozeman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061106
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 60 734 727 filed Nov. 7 2005 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with partial Government support under Contract No. MDA972 03 1 0002 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to analog to digital conversion ADC at high bandwidths such as bandwidths in the range from about 100 MegaHertz MHz 1 MHz 10cycles per second to about 1000 GigaHertz GHz 1 GHz 10cycles per second centered at an arbitrary frequency.

Electronic analog to digital converters ADCs also called digitizers that can directly capture signals with bandwidths over 10 GHz require over 20 10samples per second SPS and are currently limited to fewer than 7 effective resolution bits. Only modest improvements in performance are anticipated with current approaches. The current approaches include some electronic and photonic techniques that leverage the ability of currently available 0.1 Giga samples per second GSPS 1 GSPS 10samples per second ADCs to achieve roughly 12 effective bits. High bandwidth electronic techniques include sample interleaved ADCs but their performance is either limited by clock jitter component non uniformity and calibration issues.

Previous approaches to photonic assisted ADC include ultra fast pulse sampling which takes advantage of stable pulse trains from mode locked lasers and time stretched waveform processing which exploits the ability of dispersive elements to temporally stretch modulated broadband chirped pulses. In time stretching a microwave waveform is intensity modulated onto a frequency chirped optical pulse which is then stretched by a highly dispersive element such as a doped optical fiber thus reducing the pulse s intensity modulation bandwidth. The resulting signal can be captured using a lower bandwidth electronic ADC. Bandwidth enhancements time stretch factors significantly greater than 10 and time bandwidth products significantly greater than 1000 are difficult to achieve with currently available devices.

Based on the foregoing there is a clear need for ADCs that are capable of directly capturing signals with high bandwidth and providing more effective resolution bits than is achieved with current approaches. In general there is a need for ADCs that do not suffer all the deficiencies of current and prior approaches.

In one set of embodiments a method includes receiving an input analog waveform to be digitized over a particular frequency band. A phase sensitive frequency domain representation of the input analog waveform is recorded. The phase sensitive frequency domain representation is readout and digitized. An output series of digital values that represent the analog waveform digitized over the particular frequency band is determined based on the spectral series.

In some of these embodiments the phase sensitive frequency domain representation is readout and digitized with a high dynamic range low bandwidth digitizer to produce a spectral series of digital values. The low bandwidth digitizer has a bandwidth at least a factor of two less than the particular frequency band.

In some of these embodiments the phase sensitive frequency domain representation is recorded in a spatial spectral holographic material.

In other embodiments an apparatus or logic encoded in a tangible medium when executed performs one or more steps of the above methods.

A method and apparatus are described for analog to digital conversion. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are descried below in the context of recording a spectrum in spectral spatial holographic SSH material with an inhomogeneously broadened transition IBT absorption spectrum reading the spectrum with a chirped waveform and digitizing with state of the art high dynamic range low bandwidth ADCs. However the invention is not limited to this context. In other embodiments other means may be used to store and readout a phase sensitive spectrum of a target signal at a rate than can be readily digitized with emerging or different ADCs.

For example in some other embodiments a target signal and a reference waveform are modulated onto an optical beam that illuminates a conventional periodic ruled grating. The grating acts to spread the spectrum of the combined signals out in space or angle . The spectrum of the combined signals is captured at a distance away from the grating with a linear array of detectors such as an array of a charged coupled device CCD . The captured analog spectrum is read out sequentially from the linear array at the clock rate of the detector which can be significantly slower than the particular bandwidth to digitize the target signal. In some other embodiments the combined signal is sent through a series of narrow band filters and the power through each filter is recorded. In some other embodiments the target signal is interfered with several sinusoidal reference beams with a range of frequencies and the signal s interference with each reference detected in phase and in quadrature to yield a phase sensitive recording of the signal s spectrum.

The input is a structure configured for receiving a target analog electromagnetic signal to be digitized over a particular frequency band. The particular frequency band can be a baseband i.e. a frequency band that includes a zero frequency component or can be a band centered at a arbitrary frequency e.g. a carrier frequency . The input can be any structure capable of carrying an analog electromagnetic signal including optical radio wave and electronic signals. As used herein an analog signal comprises a measurable phenomenon that is continuous in time compared to discrete time intervals that are reciprocal to bandwidths of interest. An analog signal may be comprised of discrete values for the measurable phenomenon. A digital signal output by the digitizer represents a series of values at discrete points in time. The sample rate of the digitizer required to capture the analog signal is roughly equal to one to two times the width of the frequency band.

The output is a structure for providing the digitized signal called herein a target digital signal output . The output can be any structure capable of carrying a digital electromagnetic signal including optical radio wave and electronic signals. As used herein a digital signal comprises a series of values that characterize the target signal at discrete points in time. Each value is represented by a series of measurable phenomena that represent individual digits of some mathematical base such as binary digits bits for base . The series of values represent the target signal over one or more frequency bands.

The spectrum recording apparatus is a structure for recording an analog phase sensitive spectrum of the target analog signal typically accomplishing the recording in a time interval equal to the duration of a time segment of the analog signal that is to be recorded. The analog phase sensitive spectrum can be retrieved from the apparatus within a readout time interval. The readout time interval is typically greater than the duration of the time segment of the analog signal that is to be recorded. The bandwidth of the readout signal is typically much less than the particular bandwidth desired for the recording of the target analog signal.

The digitizer is a commercially available high dynamic range digitizer capable of digitizing the analog phase sensitive spectrum retrieved from the apparatus . The bandwidth of the digitizer is typically lower than the particular bandwidth at which the analog signal is to be digitized. Because the spectrum can be retrieved at a slower rate than it is recorded the bandwidth of the digitizer is sufficient to sample the retrieved analog phase sensitive spectrum at a rate that enables a series that represents the target signal to be constructed within the particular frequency band of interest.

The digital signal processor uses the digitized phase sensitive spectrum to construct a digital series of values. The series of values describe the target signal at discrete points in time. The time points are typically separated by evenly spaced time intervals and thus the digital series represents the target signal as though it were sampled at a particular frequency referred to as the sample rate.

In step a target signal to be digitized over a particular frequency band is received. For example the target signal is an optical signal received on input .

In step an analog phase sensitive spectrum in the frequency domain of the target analog signal is recorded. For example an analog phase sensitive spectrum of the target analog signal received on input is recorded in apparatus with high fidelity over the particular frequency band or a wider frequency band or more than one frequency band. In the illustrated embodiment the particular frequency band is the baseband low pass band .

In step the spectrum is digitized. In the illustrated embodiment the spectrum is digitized with a low bandwidth digitizer. For example the spectrum is retrieved from the apparatus at a slower rate than recorded and digitized at digitizer . Digitizer operates at a low bandwidth compared to a width of the particular frequency band.

In step a digital series that represents the target signal in the time domain is produced based on the digitized spectrum in the frequency domain. In some embodiments the inverse Fourier transform of the digitized spectrum in the frequency domain produces the digital series in the time domain. The separation of consecutive samples in the time domain digital series corresponds to the particular bandwidth. For example the digital signal processor uses digital processing to make any corrections to the digitized spectrum and compute the inverse Fourier transform of the corrected spectrum to generate the digital series that represents the target signal in the time domain. The digital series is output on output .

According to some example embodiments an SSH material is used to record an analog phase sensitive spectrum in the frequency domain for the target analog signal.

The absorption features of ions or molecules doped into inorganic or organic materials are spectrally broadened by two main classes of mechanisms. Homogeneous broadening is the fundamental broadening experienced by all ions or molecules independently and arises from a well known quantum mechanical relationship between a transition frequency line shape and a dephasing time of an excited electron in the ion or molecule. Inhomogeneous broadening refers to a quasi continuum of overlapping individual spectra of all of the ions or molecules in the material which have microscopically different environments and therefore slightly different transition frequencies. When the inhomogeneous broadening of a material is significantly larger than the homogeneous broadening of a material the material displays useful optical absorption properties and is called an inhomogeneously broadened transition IBT material. As described below such a material can be used to form spatial spectral gratings and is therefore also called a spatial spectral S material. The spatial spectral gratings can be used to store holographic data in which the output varies with the spatial mode of observations and so the material is also called a spatial spectral holographic SSH material. The latter term is used hereinafter.

Doping of certain rare earth ions in inorganic materials in a certain way produces SSH materials that are useful in broadband signal processing applications. In various materials known in the art the absorption demonstrates optical frequency selectivity over bandwidths typically far greater than 1 GHz and with frequency resolution typically orders of magnitude less than 1 megaHertz MHz 1 MHz 10cycles per second . The frequency resolution of an SSH material is typically referred to as the homogeneous linewidth of the material. The practical limit on the maximum duration of the analog signal that can be recorded in an SSH materials is roughly the reciprocal of the material s homogeneous linewidth. For example a material with a homogeneous linewidth of 1 MHz can record signals with duration up to roughly one microsecond. The maximum bandwidth that can be recorded by an SSH materials is roughly equal to the inhomogeneous bandwidth of the SSH material. For example an SSH material with inhomogeneous linewidth of 100 GHz can record signals with bandwidths up to 100 GHz.

The frequency selectivity can be modified locally by interaction with optical signals that excite electrons in the ions which serve as absorbers from a ground state to an excited state thereby removing those electrons from the population of ground state absorbers at that location in the material. This creates a reduction in the absorption at the resonant frequency of these ions. Therefore some such materials have been used to form highly frequency selective spatial spectral gratings. After some time the electrons may return to the ground state and the grating decays with a characteristic time called the population decay time. When electrons are removed from the ground state in a particular homogeneously broadened absorption peak a hole is said to be burned in the absorption of the material at the frequency of the hole and light at the frequency of the hole is transmitted with substantially less absorption. A spectral hole is an example of the most simple burned spectral feature and combinations of spectral holes at different frequencies with varying depths are here denoted as spectral features or spectral gratings. The lifetime of the spectral features is determined by the time it takes for the absorbers in the system to return to their equilibrium state. Spectral features may be made permanent in some systems.

Some SSH materials have been used as versatile optical coherent transient OCT processing devices. An OCT device relies on a broadband spatial spectral grating in the optical range that extends over several homogeneous lines and part or all of the available inhomogeneous broadening absorption profile. All the features of an optical spatial spectral grating are typically formed substantively simultaneously by recording the spatial spectral interference of two or more optical pulses separated in time only purely spectral grating or separated in both space and time a spatial spectral grating . A spatial spectral grating has the ability to generate a broadband optical output signal that depends on an optical input probe waveform impinging on that grating and the programming waveforms that formed the grating

In optical analog signal processing the medium is used to store particular spectral features of interest such as the result of the interaction of one or more optical waveforms e.g. optical beams carrying information . See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 459 682 entitled Time domain data storage Inventor T. W. Mossberg Issued Jul. 10 1984 hereinafter Mossberg U.S. Pat. No. 4 670 854 entitled Optical cross correlation and convolution apparatus Inventors T. W. Mossberg Y. S. Bai W. R. Babbitt N. W. Carlson Issued Jun. 2 1987 hereinafter Mossberg Bai et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 239 548 entitled Optical signal processor for processing continuous signal data Inventors W. R. Babbitt and J. A. Bell Issued Aug. 24 1993 hereinafter Babbitt and Bell U.S. Pat. No. 6 680 860 entitled Optical coherent transient continuously programmed continuous processor Inventors K. D. Merkel and W. R. Babbitt Issued Jan. 20 2004 hereinafter Merkel and Babbitt and published International Patent application WO 2003 098384 entitled Techniques for processing high time bandwidth signals using a material with inhomogeneously broadened absorption spectrum Inventors K. D. Merkel Z. Cole K. M. Rupavatharam W. R. Babbitt T. Chang and K. H. Wagner 27 Nov. 2003 hereinafter Merkel the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

In some circumstances including those described by Merkel the medium is an optically absorptive medium when most of the population is in the ground state of the two electron quantum level states. This reduces the signal level of a readout beam transmitted through the medium. However when the population is evenly divided between the two states and all coherent superposition states have decayed away the medium is transparent e.g. signal levels transmitted are essentially equal to the signal levels impinging. Furthermore when most of the population is in the excited state the medium is amplifying e.g. signal levels transmitted are greater than the signal levels impinging.

In some OCT devices the approach to accessing the information in the spatial spectral grating is to probe that grating with a high bandwidth Fourier transform limited optical signal such as a coherent brief optical pulse or a series of such coherent brief optical pulses. Under certain conditions the probing of the grating can produce optical output signals that are generally referred to as stimulated photon echoes or optical coherent transients. See for example Mossberg and U.S. Pat. No. 5 369 665 Coherent time domain data storage with spread spectrum data pulse Inventors Y. S. Bai and R. Kachru Issued Nov. 29 1994. hereinafter Bai the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. A single brief coherent light pulse with a bandwidth equal to that of the spectral grating stimulates a time delayed output signal whose temporal profile represents the Fourier transform of the spectrum recorded in the grating structure.

While useful in many applications the approach of readout with a high bandwidth Fourier transform limited coherent brief optical pulse or series of optical pulses at the full bandwidth of processing can suffer at present from the limited performance in dynamic range of photo detectors and ADCs that are needed to make a measurement of any instantaneous high bandwidth optical signal. Existing high bandwidth detectors and ADCs have limited performance and higher cost as compared to lower bandwidth detectors and digitizers.

Swept frequency modulated optical signals are called chirped optical waveforms herein. The frequency sweep can be linear in time with a constant chirp rate called linear chirp or linear frequency modulation LFM or can be non linear with a time varying chirp rate. Optical LFM signals have been used as probe waveforms in pulse sequences to write spatial spectral gratings for applications of storage signal processing true time delay generation and arbitrary waveform generation and also for readout of spectral gratings. LFM probe waveforms generate a temporal output signal that represents a collective readout of all the absorbers as with the brief pulse excitation but under the condition of swept excitation. By properly choosing the rate of frequency change with time called herein the chirp rate K a temporal readout is produced that is slow enough to be digitized by low cost high performance digitizers in the frequency bands of interest. See for example Merkel.

The concept of using a chirped optical waveform as a probe signal has been called spectral to temporal mapping. Coherent interaction of resonances of the physical system with the chirped optical waveform is called a stimulated photon echo or optical coherent transient effect. Commonly this interaction results in a response signal that is a time varying change to the amplitude and or phase of the probe waveform. The frequency sweep rate or chirp rate K is defined as the frequency scan range which equals the chirp bandwidth B divided by the duration of the sweep time c as given by Expression 1a 1a 

In some cases the response waveform phase and amplitude can be directly observed. For some other cases e.g. at optical frequencies in order to obtain the full information about both the phase and the amplitude a heterodyne detection scheme is used where a reference waveform interferes with the response signal. Typically the reference waveform is close in frequency with the response signal so that a lower frequency beat output is produced that is readily observable with available photo detectors and high dynamic range digitizers. Under some conditions heterodyne detection is automatic such as when the probe waveform spatially overlaps the response signal and acts as a reference as in the case of absorption or dispersion. In other cases the output signal is distinct from the probe waveform and a reference waveform is made to interfere with the response signal before being received by a measurement apparatus such as a digitizing detector. In some embodiments the reference waveform is also a chirped optical waveform.

EM ADC includes one or more electromagnetic source electromagnetic couplers collectively referenced hereinafter as couplers electromagnetic modulators SSH material electromagnetic detector digitizer and post digitized processor . The ADC includes target analog signal input and target digital signal output as described above for . The post digitized processor represents an embodiment of digital signal processor of .

In the illustrated embodiment EM source includes an input laser . This laser provides stabilized optical carrier frequency beams in the TeraHertz range THz 1 THz 10cycles per second used to carry a target and reference signal and a chirped waveform used as a probe for readout. In some embodiments a single laser provides the carrier frequency waveform for both the target and probe waveforms. In some embodiments additional laser sources are included in EM source . In some various embodiments electric signals from a laser stabilization block not shown controls frequency amplitude or phase or some combination for laser . Propagation of EM waveforms is indicated in by thick straight lines with angled arrowheads. Electronic connections for signal processing and control are represented by thinner segmented lines with triangular arrowheads indicating direction for information flow.

The EM couplers direct EM waveforms such as optical carrier waveform between the various components and include such optical couplers as free space including vacuums and specialized and ambient atmosphere mirrors phase plates optical fibers among others well known in the art of optics and electromagnetic propagation. In the illustrated embodiment EM coupler splits carrier waveform into two carrier waveforms at the same optical frequency.

The EM modulators modulate the carrier waveforms to produce signal waveforms with rich frequency content. In the illustrated embodiment EM modulators include electro optic modulators EOMs collectively referenced hereinafter as EOMs . In some embodiments one or more EOMs are replaced with or added to other optical modulators such as one or more electro optic phase modulators EOPMs electro optic amplitude modulators electro absorption modulators and acousto optic modulators AOMs . In the illustrated embodiment EOM is connected to target analog signal input . EOM is connected to reference signal source and chirp signal source . In some embodiments one or both of reference signal source and chirp signal source include an arbitrary waveform generator AWG or other wave generators such as one or more pulse pattern generators PPGs .

In the illustrated embodiment the target analog signal input receives a radio frequency signal that is modulated onto optical carrier waveform at EOM . The modulated optical waveform is directed onto the SSH material by EM coupler . In some embodiments the target analog signal input receives an optical signal that is not modulated onto optical carrier but is instead directed as waveform onto SSH material by EM coupler and EOM is omitted. In some embodiments the optical waveform is directed by EM coupler onto SSH material in two spatial modes indicated by waveforms . A spatial mode is a particular set of locations illuminated by one waveform propagating through the SSH material in a particular direction.

In the illustrated embodiment phase sensitive spectral information is provided by causing the optical waveform with the target analog signal to interact with a delayed reference waveform also directed onto SSH material by EM coupler . The effect of this interaction is described in more detail below. In the illustrated embodiment the reference waveform is produced by modulating optical carrier waveform in EOM by a reference voltage signal produced in reference signal source . In some embodiments the reference signal source is instead connected to EOM to modify the same optical carrier that is modulated by target analog signal on input but at a different time. One method to obtain faithful reference and chirped readout waveforms as described below uses a binary pulse pattern generator PPG mixed with a microwave source to drive an electro optic phase modulator EOPM in place of EOM to modulate the waveforms onto a stable optical carrier waveform. In some embodiments the reference waveform receives an optical signal that is not modulated onto optical carrier but is instead directed as waveform onto SSH material by EM coupler and EOM is omitted. In some embodiments the two different reference waveform are directed by EM coupler onto SSH material in two different spatial modes indicated by waveforms 

The SSH material records one or more waveforms that impinge on the material with sufficient intensity and duration. When multiple waveforms interact in the material at different angles spatial spectral structures are formed in the material. When all waveforms impinge in the same direction only spectral content is recorded.

The phase sensitive spectrum recorded in SSH material is read out using a chirped optical waveform over the frequency band of interest. In some embodiments more than one chirped optical waveform is used to read out the phase sensitive spectrum. In the illustrated embodiment the chirped optical waveform is produced by modulating optical carrier waveform in EOM by a signal produced in chirp signal source . As a result of illuminating the SSH material with the chirped optical waveform also represented by arrow a primary response waveform represented by arrow is produced and directed onto EM detector digitizer by EM coupler

For heterodyne readout processes a heterodyne reference optical waveform e.g. waveform is also produced in addition to the primary response waveform e.g. . Any method of generating a heterodyne reference waveform may be used. In the illustrated embodiment the heterodyne reference optical waveform emerges from the optical material usually in a spatial mode that has not recorded the target interaction from optical waveform such as experienced by chirped optical waveform . In some embodiments the heterodyne reference signal is a chirped optical waveform not shown that has not passed through the SSH material . In some embodiments the heterodyne reference signal is a transmitted probe waveform that is naturally in the same direction as the response signal that itself is often delayed. Thus in such embodiments the signal detected at the optical detectors is naturally heterodyne. In some embodiments the heterodyne reference waveform is a response signal from the chirped optical waveform interacting with one or more spatial spectral gratings recorded in the IBT material for the purpose of generating the heterodyne reference waveform.

The EM detector digitizer includes one or more detectors such as an optical detector that detect the time varying optical intensity in a certain optical bandwidth. In some embodiments a one or two dimensional array of optical detectors is used to simultaneously detect a response waveform on multiple spatial modes. Scanned or instant images can be generated by the array of detectors. In some embodiments the EM detector detects only the response waveform . In some embodiments the EM detector detects the heterodyne combination of the response waveform and heterodyne reference waveform . For example the heterodyne combination generates beat frequency variations that are much lower in frequency and larger in amplitude than response signal intensity variations therefore the beat frequency variations are more accurately measured with current detector digitizer equipment. In some embodiments the detector outputs an analog electronic signal e.g. a continuous voltage or current signal that is converted to discrete digital values by a separate digitizer ADC included in EM detector digitizer . In some embodiments the optical detector is a digital device that outputs directly a digital signal.

The post digitized electronics in EM analyzer use electrical signals output by EM detector digitizer to construct a series of digital values that represent the target analog signal with sample spacing that corresponds to the particular bandwidth desired for the digitization. For example the post digitized processor applies any applicable filtering and corrections to generate the phase sensitive spectrum and then applies an inverse Fourier transform and extracts a series of values that represent the target analog signal. The processes performed by post digitized processor are described in more detail below with reference to .

The results of the processing by post digitized processor are presented at target digital signal output .

The use of the reference signal and processing performed in post digitized processor to provide phase information for the spectrum recorded in SSH material is described in this section based on the following theoretical considerations for purposes of explanation. However the invention is not limited by the completeness or accuracy of the following description.

The SSH material responds to a broadband optical waveform by recording a high fidelity replica of its power spectrum in the form of a modified absorption spectrum. A power spectrum as is well known is a real valued function defined by a product of a complex valued Fourier transform by its complex conjugate where a complex value includes a real part and an imaginary part that is a factor of the square root of 1. The modified absorption spectrum can be characterized by an average modified absorption coefficient spectrum e.g. trace in described below given to first order in the power spectrum by Equation 2a. 1 2a where is the unperturbed absorption coefficient of the material is the optical energy spectrum of incident modulated light waveform and is a conversion efficiency coefficient given by Equation 2b.

The operation of the illustrated SSH ADC embodiment is a two step process. First a sensitive spectral holographic recording of the complex Fourier transform of a target signal also called a signal of interest SOI is captured by the SSH material. The target signal on input V t exists on or is modulated onto an optical carrier along with a delayed reference signal V t and illuminates the SSH material. In some embodiments the reference waveform precedes the target signal waveform. shows the reference waveform and target signal waveform interacting at an angle e.g. which has the advantage of minimizing some of the non linearities that occur in the collinear case 0 but requires diffractive readout. For simplicity only the collinear case is described here. The incident optical energy spectrum is given by Equation 3a.

The second step in the operation of the illustrated SSH ADC embodiment is the readout process. The modified absorption profile results in a transmission transfer function given by T exp L which is read out with one or more chirped optical waveforms as shown in . Because the modified absorption persists for several milliseconds in the SSH material the readout time may be much longer than the duration of the target signal which is often several microseconds long. This longer duration readout of the signal in the frequency domain is the effective stretched processing that enables SSH ADCs to utilize low speed commercial ADCs to digitize broadband microwave signals as illustrated in . The frequency scan rate is chosen so as to fully capture the optical spectrum with sufficient resolution within the material population decay time.

A conventional spectroscopic approach to scanned readout says that the scan rate should be less than where is the spectral resolution of interest. For the SSH ADC embodiment should be greater than the reciprocal of the captured signal s duration according to the convention. A disadvantage of this approach is that readout of the frequency domain waveform might take longer than the material lifetime. A recently developed spectral recovery technique allows scan rates over 1000 times faster than the conventional approach making this technique a useful element of the illustrated SSH ADC embodiment. Artifacts introduced by the fast readout are corrected digitally in post digitized processing as described below with reference to . With spectral recovery a 20 GHz scan in 2 milliseconds can achieve 

After a digital absorption spectrum is acquired digital high pass filtering is applied to remove the terms V V . This works best when the target and delayed reference waveforms are temporally well separated. In the illustrated embodiment the high pass filtered signal is then multiplied by the Fourier transform of the delayed reference signal or its complex conjugate yielding a signal Sgiven by Equation 4. 4 The phase factor e is included in the factor that multiplies the high pass filtered signal in order to have the output digitized signal centered at time t 0. This is only for convenience in comparing the digitized output signal to the target output signal about t 0. If this factor is not included the digitized signal of interest is centered at time t . If the complex conjugate of the Fourier transform of the reference signal is instead used as the multiplying factor with or with a phase factor then the second product term of equation 3b becomes the term of interest. In the illustrated embodiment after performing an inverse Fourier transform on Sback into a time domain signal V t the result is given by Equation 5. V t V t V t V t V t V t V 2 t 5 where and represent the operations of convolution and correlation respectively. The first term can be isolated from the second term provided the delay e.g. the time interval between the start of the target signal and the start of the reference signal is greater than the duration of the signals. If the autocorrelation of the reference signal has a strong auto correlation peak i.e. low sidelobes then the output signal about t 0 will closely mimic the target signal. In some embodiments where the high pass filtered signal is then multiplied by the complex conjugate of the Fourier transform of the delayed reference signal a time reversal process can be employed to obtain an output signal that mimics the target signal.

In some embodiments long pseudo random codes are used as reference waveforms so that V t V t approaches a delta function which has a value at t 0 and low sidelobes at all other times. This is equivalent to a particular product in the frequency domain V V t being relatively constant over the frequency band of interest within about a factor of two. To enhance the fidelity in some embodiments further processing is performed to de convolve the auto correlation of the reference signal from V t . In some other embodiments instead of multiplying the high pass filtered signal by the Fourier transform of the reference waveform or its complex conjugate the high pass filtered signal is multiplied by a filter function that better suppresses sidelobe interference for a given reference waveform. Examples of filter functions that suppress sidelobes are inverse filters psuedoinverse filters and Wiener filters well known in the art. In some embodiments the reference analog waveform has discrete amplitudes that are easily generated with conventional electronics while the filter function is a complex continuous function that is readily computed by a digital processor.

Faithful capture of the target signal over a particular frequency band depends on the bandwidth of the reference waveform equaling or exceeding the bandwidth of the particular frequency band. A possible reference waveform one that does not produce sidelobe interference is a single brief pulse with enough energy to excite roughly 50 of the ions. But since such pulses are difficult to produce some embodiments employ a more practical approach that yields side lobe free conversion. In these embodiments a dual capture technique utilizes a pair of complementary codes. When the power spectra of two complementary codes are added the sum is flat over the bandwidth of the codes. Thus when the auto correlations of the two complementary codes are added their sidelobe structures cancel. Complementary codes are well known in the art see for example Bob Pearson Complementary Code Keying Made Simple November 2001 by INTERSIL Milpitas Calif. published on the Internet at domain cnscenter.future.co.kr in directory resource rsc center vendor wp intersil in file an 9850.pdf the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein . In this embodiment two recordings of the target signal are made one with one code of the complementary pair as the reference waveform and the other recording with the other code of the complementary pair as the reference waveform. Each recording in the dual capture technique is processed using the respective Fourier transform of the complementary code as the filter function. Adding the two resultant digitized signals greatly reduces the sidelobe interference effects that occur when using a single reference waveform and a single filter function. The effect is achieved in an apparatus with a single optical modulator for the target signal and a waveform splitter within EM coupler that directs the modulated optical signal to two laser spots along spatial modes indicated by waveforms and where they interfere with different complementary codes as reference waveforms. One complementary code of the pair is directed along spatial mode and the other along spatial mode . By adding the two resulting digitized outputs the convolved sidelobe structures are greatly reduced yielding a more faithful digital capture of the target signal. The advantage of using complementary coded waveforms is that binary complementary code pairs of arbitrary length can be generated and faithfully modulated onto optical carriers with conventional electronics and modulators at high bit rates exceeding 40 gigabits per second GBPS with current technology.

In step an analog reference signal with well known Fourier transform is received. For example the reference signal source produces an analog RF reference signal V t with a well known Fourier transform V such as one or both of a pair of complementary code signals. The reference signal is selected to have a bandwidth Bcommensurate with the target digitizing bandwidth B.

In step a target analog signal is received. For example the target analog signal input receives an analog RF target signal V t of duration D. A longer target analog signal can be broken up into multiple segments of duration Dor less.

In step the target analog signal and the reference signal separated by a delay are caused to interact in an SSH material. For example the target analog signal on input is used to modulate optical carrier waveform in EOM to produce an optical target analog waveform which is split into two optical beams in a waveform splitter in EM coupler . One or two reference waveforms generated by reference signal source is modulated on one or two optical carriers to produce optical reference waveforms . These are separately combined with the target analog waveform in EM coupler after a delay with each of the two split beams from optical target analog waveform . The one or two beams impinge on SSH material at one or two different spatial modes location and direction through SSH material indicated by beams . At each spatial mode a phase sensitive spectrum in the frequency domain is recorded.

Because the illustrated SSH ADC embodiment actually captures the optical waveform either a phase or amplitude modulator can be used in modulators during step . However the modulators are preferably not over driven which typically sets the maximum voltage of the target signal at the modulator to be significantly less than the V of the modulator. The optical waveform can be amplified after modulation to make up for the modulator s low conversion efficiency.

Referring again to after the spectrum e.g. spectrum is stored in step control passes to step . In step the spectrum is digitized with a low bandwidth digitizer. In the illustrated embodiment step includes steps .

In step a chirped optical waveform that spans the bandwidth of interest is directed onto the SSH material. For example a low amplitude chirped signal that does not significantly reconfigure the atomic states of the material and change the absorption spectrum is generated in chirp signal source and modulated onto optical carrier to form chirped optical waveform that is directed by EM coupler onto SSH material . The chirp is considered an analog waveform in this description. In some embodiments the chirp is directed onto two spatial modes through SSH material indicated by beams to read out the spectra produced in the two spatial modes by the two complementary reference waveforms that interacted with the target analog signal.

In step a readout signal from the SSH material is received. For example a primary response signal and a heterodyne reference signal are emitted by SSH material and directed by EM coupler to be received by one or more detectors in detector digitizer .

The readout signal has duration D that is equal to the chirp bandwidth Bdivided by the chirp rate . In the illustrated embodiment the chirp bandwidth Bis equal to the recorded bandwidth Band captures the entire recorded spectrum . However it is sufficient for the chirp bandwidth Bto equal the desired target digitizing bandwidth B. It is desirable that Dbe much longer than Dso that available ADCs can capture sufficient samples of the readout to provide a high bandwidth representation of the target analog signal. The chirp rate K is chosen so that Dis long enough to obtain sufficient samples from available ADCs. For example when the desired target bandwidth Bis 100 times the bandwidth of available ADCs then it is desirable for Dto be 100 times D and is chosen to provide this ratio. In embodiments using dual capture of interactions with reference signals for each code of a complementary pair the readout includes the scanned output from the second spatial mode either at a later time or on another channel from a second detector digitizer.

Referring again to in step the readout signal e.g. readout is digitized by a high dynamic range low bandwidth ADC such as is commercially available currently at low relative cost. In some embodiments the readout signal is digitized by the detector e.g. with a built in commercial ADC. In some embodiments an analog electrical signal from the detector is digitized by a separate component e.g. a separate commercial ADC.

The lower bandwidth electronic ADC used to capture the readout signal preferably has a bandwidth capable of recording frequencies greater than the maximum delay in the input sequence times the chirp rate used to read out the spectral grating. For delays of several microseconds and chirp rates of tens of gigahertz per millisecond a 100 MSPS ADC is adequate. For a 10 GHz version of the SSH ADC described in more detail below the stretch factor is about 100 and the time bandwidth product of a single captured waveform is about 10 000. Both factors are significantly greater than conventional time stretch ADC processors.

In step a digital series that represents the target signal is constructed from the digitized spectrum based on the digitized readout signal e.g. digitized series of readout . For example step is performed by post digitized processor . is a flow diagram that illustrates step of the method of according to an embodiment. According to this embodiment step includes steps .

In step a filter function corresponding to the reference signal is received. For example in various embodiments the filter function is an inverse filter for the reference signal a psuedoinverse filter for the reference signal or a Weiner filter. In some embodiments such as embodiments using a pair of complementary codes as reference signals the filter function is the Fourier Transform of the reference signal for each of the two complementary code reference signals. In some embodiments the filter function remains unchanged for each time the system captures an analog signal provided the same reference signal is used each time. In these embodiments the reference waveform and its corresponding filter are received once and used for processing all analog signals or portions thereof. For example if V t is the reference signal a digital series representing the Fourier transform of the reference signal V is received as the filter function and stored in step . In some embodiments the filter function is the complex conjugate of the Fourier transform of the reference signal. In these embodiments a digital series representing V is received and stored in step . In some embodiments the reference signal V t is received and the appropriate corresponding filter function is computed by post digitized processor .

In step the digitized readout signal is received. For example a digitized series of values representing the readout is received at post digitized processor from EM detector digitizer .

In step a digital series of values that represents the spectrum is determined from the digitized series of readout signal values. For example spurious oscillations caused by a high value of K relative to the square of the width of the smallest spectral feature are removed using the technique of Chang. The result is a series of values that represent the power spectrum of the right side of Equation 3b.

In step the cross term is separated from the digitized spectrum. This is done with a high pass filter that removes the effect of the relatively constant terms V V from the right side of Equation 3b in the series of values.

In step the remaining cross terms are multiplied by the appropriate filter function corresponding to the reference signal received during step for the series of values. This step yields a series of values that represents Sfrom Equation 4.

In step two products from step for the pair of complementary codes are added together to form S. This reduces the effects of sidelobes. In embodiments that do not use a pair of complementary codes step is omitted.

In step the inverse Fourier transform of Sis determined. Any method may be used. In some embodiments a fast Fourier Transform computation is made using a general purpose computer. In some embodiments a digital signal processor DSP performs the computation in hardware. This step yields a series of values that represents V t from Equation 5. is a graph that illustrates an example digital series of an inverse Fourier transform that includes the example broadband signal determined based on the example readout of according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis represents sample number for the series of values increasing to the right. The vertical axis represents value of the sample in arbitrary units. The sample number at position represents a time of 0 and the sample number at position represents a time of 2 . A portion of the series of values is centered at t 0 and a portion of the series of values is centered at t 2 . In some embodiments that use a pair of complementary codes step and are reversed in order where the inverse Fourier transforms of the two Sare determined and the results are added together.

In the illustrated embodiment the values at samples centered around position t 0 represent the term V t V t V t of Equation 5. Since V t V t represents the autocorrelation of the reference function with itself chosen to have a strong autocorrelation peak it has a value near 1 at time 0 and negligible elsewhere which when convolved with V t produces an output signal that closely matches V t . Thus portion represents the digitized values for the target signal the output of interest. Portion represents duration D. The values at samples centered around position t 2 represent the term V t V t V t of Equation 5 and are not of particular interest but can be processed to enhance system signal to noise. This term is significant for durations up to the longer of Dand D. The two portions and are well separated when is greater than the longer of Dand D. Thus in step described above is selected to be greater than the longer of Dand D. When the two portions are well separated the first portion is output on the target digital signal output during step .

The dynamic range of a digitizer using the above method depends on the noise in the digitized signal. There are six main sources of distortion and noise considered when analyzing the performance of the illustrated embodiment. 1 Non linear distortion can occur if the incident optical waveform coherently saturates the SSH material. This distortion is avoided by ensuring that the term is much less than unity at all frequencies. 2 One source of noise is introduced during the material s growth and is constant for all subsequent uses of the material. The number of ions per Hertz in the interaction volume has a Poisson distribution and leads to statistical fine structure on the inhomogeneous line. The uncertainty in the number of ions in any given frequency bin is however fixed for all time for any given interaction volume and thus can be measured and removed from the captured waveform in post processing. 3 During the recording process the number of photons absorbed per given frequency bin is governed by Poisson statistics. 4 The homogeneous broadening distorts the recorded waveform if the target signal and reference signals are not either pre or post compensated. This compensation comes with a price of reduced input energy and thus reduced efficiency. 5 Distortion can be introduced during readout due to both the exponential dependence of the absorption process and to dispersive effects. Techniques have been developed to correct for the dispersive effects and allow faithful and fast readout of spectral gratings. The exponential dependence is handled in the post processing. 6 The shot noise on the detected transmitted optical waveform is one of the dominant sources of noise in the illustrated embodiment and depends on the absorption and the number of photons that can be used to interrogate each frequency bin which is limited by saturation.

An SSH ADC simulator was developed that includes all of the above effects except for coherent saturation and fast readout both of which require time ordered integration of the optical fields to accurately simulate. The effects of coherent saturation were independently studied and it was found that if the maximum excitation was kept below 10 then the distortions introduced in the illustrated SSH ADC embodiment process are below the level that would effect 10 bit digitization. The maximum excitation is monitored in the simulator and kept below 10 .

For faithful capture the frequency resolution desired is approximately the reciprocal of the signal duration e.g. D . The number of detected photons per frequency bin depends on the number of photons per frequency bin in the scanned readout waveform. To avoid loss of readout sensitivity due to saturation in the measurement of differential absorptions the number of read photons per frequency bin is chosen to be less than or equal to the numbers of ions per frequency bin in the illuminated spatial volume. This relationship was used to fix the maximum readout waveform power in the simulator.

The SSH ADC simulator was used to analyze the capture of a 10 GHz analog waveform. The simulation parameters were based on a currently available SSH material and on conventional optical components. The waveform was 820 nanoseconds ns 1 ns 10seconds in duration and generated by a random number generator with uniform probability distribution between 1 and 1 and then filtered by a 10 GHz 3 deciBels dB filter. The dual capture processing technique was performed using two length 32768 bit 40 gigabits per second GBPS binary 1 or 1 complementary codes as the reference waveforms. The 40 GBPS rate was chosen to provide a sufficiently broad linear signal response of the SSH ADC device whose filter function is a sinc function raised to fourth order due to the double auto correlation with the reference waveforms multiplied by a raised cosine filter used in the readout process to isolate the main lobe of the sinc function. The 3 dB bandwidth of the SSH ADC response is 10.3 GHz. The target analog signal and complementary codes are assumed to be faithfully amplitude modulated onto optical carrier waveforms. The material simulated was 0.06 Er LiNbOwhich means that Erbium Er replaces 0.06 of the Lithium Li ions in the lithium niobate LiNbO crystal which has an absorption coefficient of 3 cmat optical wavelengths of 1.532 microns 1 micron 10meters an inhomogeneous bandwidth of 200 GHz and an ion density of 5 10ions per Hz per cubic meter. The homogeneous linewidth was taken to be 40 kiloHertz kHz 1 kHZ 1000 cycles per second . The length of the material 6 mm was chosen to give an absorption length L of 1.8. The maximum laser power was set to 1 Watt consistent with the performance of optical amplifiers near 1.5 microns. The diameter of the laser spot 250 microns was chosen to keep the maximum excitation below 10 to avoid coherent saturation. The filter functions used for processing the digitized readout signals were the Fourier transforms of the reference waveforms.

Three metrics are used to characterize the dynamic range performance of the illustrated SSH ADC embodiment. The first is the common metric used for sinusoidal waveforms which is based on the signal to noise ratio SNR the ratio of the mean square of the signal to the mean square of the error signal . The effective number of bits ENOB is given by 10 log SNR 1.76 6.02 which yielded 9.8 bits for the above example. The second metric is equivalent to the first definition for a sine wave but is a more appropriate metric for analog signals. The effective number of bits is computed as log 1 2 square root over 3 times the ratio of the peak to peak signal amplitude to the root mean square of the error signal. For the analog signal above the SSH ADC demonstrated 10.3 bit performance. To verify this metric a third metric was computed that compared the performance of the SSH ADC to an idealized ADC. The filtered target signal was quantized with 2levels to find the root mean square rms error as a function of N. The equivalent bit performance of the SSH ADC is then extrapolated from this function to be 10.3 bits in good agreement with the second metric

Analysis of the 10 GHz bandwidth SSH ADC 2 10samples per second SPS predicts the device can achieve 10 bit performance with currently available components and that SSH ADC devices are scalable to bandwidths up to 100 GHz 2 10SPS .

The large diamonds indicate the performance of more recent ADCs including the TC SERIES SIGE manufactured by TELASIC of El Segundo Calif. MAXIM of Sunnyvale Calif. 51XX line manufactured by NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS of Austin Tex. and SUPERCONDUCTING ADCs manufactured by HYPRES of Elmsford N.Y. Also plotted on graph is a rectangular band that represents the performance of TDS7000 scopes from TEKTRONIX of Beaverton Oreg. Even the more modern ADCs do not perform much above the line .

The SSH ADCs of the illustrated embodiment have better performance than the prior approaches and occupy a unique regime of graph that is not occupied by the prior approaches. The simulated performance described above for an example SSH ADC is plotted as a solid circle deep in the unique regime of SSH ADCs. The processor described in Merkel using SSH and commercial ADCs detected delays in high bandwidth signals that are equivalent to sampling the original emitted and reflected waveforms with sample rates from over 10to over 2 10with SNR bits from 10 to 8 on readout. This performance is plotted as solid squares of performance for effective SSH ADCs. Graph clearly shows a superior performance regime that is currently occupied uniquely by SSH ADCs.

An interesting attribute of the SSH ADC is that there is no aliasing of frequencies that are above a cut off frequency the Nyquist frequency as there is in typical ADCs. Frequency components above the 3 dB bandwidth are still captured by the SSH ADC though attenuated and do not distort the lower frequency performance. This makes the SSH ADC an ideal device to use for direct digital conversion of signals modulated on high frequency carriers when there are spurious signals in nearby bands. Direct digital conversion can be accomplished without down mixing the target analog signal. Instead the reference waveform is up converted to the frequency band of interest. The reference signal need not be centered on the carrier frequency of the target signal in order to faithfully capture it which makes the SSH ADC also ideal for capturing frequency hopping signals and other signals of unknown central frequencies.

Reconnaissance operations benefit from the collection and digitization of broadband and diverse signals throughout the microwave spectrum including signals with frequency hopping carriers and complex modulation formats along with strong narrow band signals. is a graph that illustrates a possible signal set of interest SSOI to be digitized according to an embodiment. The horizontal axis represents microwave frequency in GHz. The vertical axis represents microwave power spectral density in decibels per Hertz dB Hz . The SSOI includes background noise a frequency hopping communication signal a wide spectrum signal used for multiple communications and a strong narrow band signal such as used in radar fire control systems and jamming devices. Interception of all the diverse signals in the 10 GHz wide SSOI requires broadband digitization with 10 GHz bandwidth. The SSH ADC of the illustrated embodiment can achieve direct digital conversion DDC of a broadband up to 20 GHz wide SSOI anywhere in the microwave spectrum up to 100 GHz without down conversion such as in the band near 35 GHz depicted in . Furthermore the ability to digitize and process broadband SSOI provides the ability to capture or null non cooperative communications radar transmissions and jammers allowing for the capture of signals with unknown and varying carrier frequencies and modulation formats such as frequency hopping sources. The SSOI is modulated onto an optical carrier along with a well characterized reference waveform. The reference waveform can be created by a digital signal modulated onto a microwave carrier centered on the frequency band of interest. The reference microwave carrier s frequency need not match the carrier frequency of any of the signals in the SSOI.

An additional promising feature of the SSH ADC is the potential for parallel processing of thousands of ultra wideband channels in a single crystal. Such parallelism facilitates the capture of continuous waveforms or the coherent monitoring of multiple signals which can allow for complex beam forming operations.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including computer instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of computer instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into signals compatible with the signals used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for presenting images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display .

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit IC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. Such signals are examples of carrier waves.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution.

Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals that are transmitted over transmission media are herein called carrier waves.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital video disk DVD or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Network link typically provides information communication through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server connected to the Internet provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as application specific integrated circuit may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software. Logic encoded in one or more tangible media encompasses both instructions and special purpose hardware.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface which carry information to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves. Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to an infra red signal a carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

