---

title: Methods and compositions for modulating hyperstabilized c-met
abstract: The invention provides methods and compositions for modulating the HGF/c-met signaling pathway, in particular by inhibiting a hyperstabilized c-met protein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07615529&OS=07615529&RS=07615529
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 07615529
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060324
---
This application is a non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b 1 claiming priority under 35 USC 119 e to provisional application No. 60 665 482 filed Mar. 25 2005 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the fields of molecular biology and growth factor regulation. More specifically the invention concerns modulators of the HGF c met signaling pathway and uses of said modulators.

HGF is a mesenchyme derived pleiotrophic factor with mitogenic motogenic and morphogenic activities on a number of different cell types. HGF effects are mediated through a specific tyrosine kinase c met and aberrant HGF and c met expression are frequently observed in a variety of tumors. See e.g. Maulik et al. Cytokine Growth Factor Reviews 2002 13 41 59 Danilkovitch Miagkova Zbar J. Clin. Invest. 2002 109 7 863 867. Regulation of the HGF c Met signaling pathway is implicated in tumor progression and metastasis. See e.g. Trusolino Comoglio Nature Rev. 2002 2 289 300 .

HGF binds the extracellular domain of the Met receptor tyrosine kinase RTK and regulates diverse biological processes such as cell scattering proliferation and survival. HGF Met signaling is essential for normal embryonic development especially in migration of muscle progenitor cells and development of the liver and nervous system Bladt et al. Nature 1995 376 768 771. Hamanoue et al. Faseb J 2000 14 399 406 Maina et al. Cell 1996 87 531 542 Schmidt et al. Nature 1995 373 699 702 Uehara et al. Nature 1995 373 702 705 . Developmental phenotypes of Met and HGF knockout mice are very similar suggesting that HGF is the cognate ligand for the Met receptor Schmidt et al. 1995 supra Uehara et al. 1995 supra . HGF Met also plays a role in liver regeneration angiogenesis and wound healing Bussolino et al. J Cell Biol 1992 119 629 641 Matsumoto and Nakamura Exs 1993 65 225 249 Nusrat et al. J Clin Invest 1994 93 2056 2065 . The precursor Met receptor undergoes proteolytic cleavage into an extracellular subunit and membrane spanning subunit linked by disulfide bonds Tempest et al. Br J Cancer 1988 58 3 7 . The subunit contains the cytoplasmic kinase domain and harbors a multi substrate docking site at the C terminus where adapter proteins bind and initiate signaling Bardelli et al. Oncogene 1997 15 3103 3111 Nguyen et al. J Biol Chem 1997 272 20811 20819 Pelicci et al. Oncogene 1995 10 1631 1638 Ponzetto et al. Cell 1994 77 261 271 Weidner et al. Nature 1996 384 173 176 . Upon HGF binding activation of Met leads to tyrosine phosphorylation and downstream signaling through Gab1 and Grb2 Sos mediated PI3 kinase and Ras MAPK activation respectively which drives cell motility and proliferation Furge et al. Oncogene 2000 19 5582 5589 Hartmann et al. J Biol Chem 1994 269 21936 21939 Ponzetto et al. J Biol Chem 1996 271 14119 14123 Royal and Park J Biol Chem 1995 276 27780 27787 .

Met was shown to be transforming in a carcinogen treated osteosarcoma cell line Cooper et al. Nature 1984 311 29 33 Park et al. Cell 1986 45 895 904 . Met overexpression or gene amplification has been observed in a variety of human cancers. For example Met protein is overexpressed at least 5 fold in colorectal cancers and reported to be gene amplified in liver metastasis Di Renzo et al. Clin Cancer Res 1995 1 147 154 Liu et al. Oncogene 1992 7 181 185 . Met protein is also reported to be overexpressed in oral squamous cell carcinoma hepatocellular carcinoma renal cell carcinoma breast carcinoma and lung carcinoma Jin et al. Cancer 1997 79 749 760 Morello et al. J Cell Physiol 2001 189 285 290 Natali et al. Int J Cancer 1996 69 212 217 Olivero et al. Br J Cancer 1996 74 1862 1868 Suzuki et al. Br J Cancer 1996 74 1862 1868 . In addition overexpression of mRNA has been observed in hepatocellular carcinoma gastric carcinoma and colorectal carcinoma Boix et al. Hepatology 1994 19 88 91 Kuniyasu et al. Int J Cancer 1993 55 72 75 Liu et al. Oncogene 1992 7 181 185 .

A number of mutations in the kinase domain of Met have been found in renal papillary carcinoma which leads to constitutive receptor activation Olivero et al. Int J Cancer 1999 82 640 643 Schmidt et al. Nat Genet 1997 16 68 73 Schmidt et al. Oncogene 1999 18 2343 2350 . These activating mutations confer constitutive Met tyrosine phosphorylation and result in MAPK activation focus formation and tumorigenesis Jeffers et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1997 94 11445 11450 . In addition these mutations enhance cell motility and invasion Giordano et al. Faseb J 2000 14 399 406 Lorenzato et al. Cancer Res 2002 62 7025 7030 . HGF dependent Met activation in transformed cells mediates increased motility scattering and migration which eventually leads to invasive tumor growth and metastasis Jeffers et al. Mol Cell Biol 1996 16 1115 1125 Meiners et al. Oncogene 1998 16 9 20 .

Met has been shown to interact with other proteins that drive receptor activation transformation and invasion. In neoplastic cells Met is reported to interact with 6 4 integrin a receptor for extracellular matrix ECM components such as laminins to promote HGF dependent invasive growth Trusolino et al. Cell 2001 107 643 654 . In addition the extracellular domain of Met has been shown to interact with a member of the semaphorin family plexin B1 and to enhance invasive growth Giordano et al. Nat Cell Biol 2002 4 720 724 . Furthermore CD44v6 which has been implicated in tumorigenesis and metastasis is also reported to form a complex with Met and HGF and result in Met receptor activation Orian Rousseau et al. Genes Dev 2002 16 3074 3086 .

Met is a member of the subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases RTKs which include Ron and Sea Maulik et al. Cytokine Growth Factor Rev 2002 13 41 59 . Prediction of the extracellular domain structure of Met suggests shared homology with the semaphorins and plexins. The N terminus of Met contains a Sema domain of approximately 500 amino acids that is conserved in all semaphorins and plexins. The semaphorins and plexins belong to a large family of secreted and membrane bound proteins first described for their role in neural development Van Vactor and Lorenz Curr Bio 1999 19 R201 204 . However more recently semaphorin overexpression has been correlated with tumor invasion and metastasis. A cysteine rich PSI domain also referred to as a Met Related Sequence domain found in plexins semaphorins and integrins lies adjacent to the Sema domain followed by four IPT repeats that are immunoglobulin like regions found in plexins and transcription factors. A recent study suggests that the Met Sema domain is sufficient for HGF and heparin binding Gherardi et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2003 100 21 12039 44 .

As noted above the Met receptor tyrosine kinase is activated by its cognate ligand HGF and receptor phosphorylation activates downstream pathways of MAPK PI 3 kinase and PLC 1 2 . Phosphorylation of Y1234 Y1235 within the kinase domain is critical for Met kinase activation while Y1349 and Y1356 in the multisubstrate docking site are important for binding of src homology 2 SH2 phosphotyrosine binding PTB and Met binding domain MBD proteins 3 5 to mediate activation of downstream signaling pathways. An additional juxtamembrane phosphorylation site Y1003 has been well characterized for its binding to the tyrosine kinase binding TKB domain of the Cbl E3 ligase 6 7 . Cbl binding is reported to drive endophilin mediated receptor endocytosis ubiquitination and subsequent receptor degradation 8 . This mechanism of receptor downregulation has been described previously in the EGFR family that also harbor a similar Cbl binding site 9 11 .

Dysregulation of Met and HGF have been reported in a variety of tumors. Ligand driven Met activation has been observed in several cancers. Elevated serum and intra tumoral HGF is observed in lung breast cancer and multiple myeloma 12 15 . Overexpression of Met and or HGF Met amplification or mutation has been reported in various cancers such as colorectal lung gastric and kidney cancer and is thought to drive ligand independent receptor activation 2 16 . Additionally inducible overexpression of Met in a liver mouse model gives rise to hepatocellular carcinoma demonstrating that receptor overexpression drives ligand independent tumorigenesis 17 . The most compelling evidence implicating Met in cancer is reported in familial and sporadic renal papillary carcinoma RPC patients. Mutations in the kinase domain of Met that lead to constitutive activation of the receptor were identified as germline and somatic mutations in RPC 18 . Introduction of these mutations in transgenic mouse models leads to tumorigenesis and metastasis. 19 .

Although the role of the Met kinase domain has been investigated in detail and it has been theorized that increased expression levels of HGF c met probably underlie development of some cancers direct evidence for a biological role for non kinase domains of c met has been lacking. Indeed despite being implicated in the etiology of a variety of oncological conditions the HGF c met pathway has been a difficult pathway to target therapeutically. Efforts in this regard have been impeded in large part by a lack of understanding regarding mechanisms of action by which dysregulation of HGF c met causes tumorigenesis. Therefore it is clear that the need for greater understanding of c met related oncogenic mechanisms of action is great. The invention provided herein meets this need and provides other benefits.

All references cited herein including patent applications and publications are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The invention is based at least in part on the novel finding that certain human tumors express a mutated c met protein that exhibits decreased rates of down regulation intracellularly yet are capable of cell signaling. These hyperstabilized c met proteins were found to have increased oncogenic activity compared to wild type c met. As shown herein these tumors can be inhibited by anti c met inhibitors. Inhibition of hyperstabilized c met activity provides numerous therapeutic advantages. For example since these c met mutants are particularly oncogenic their targeted inhibition would be expected to diminish tumorigenesis driven by these mutants. Moreover since c met is found in many cell types including normal cells the ability to specifically target tumor specific c met mutants would be particularly beneficial for example in reducing side effects of c met inhibition therapy. The invention provides methods and compositions based on the findings described herein and are useful for targeting and or treating tumors having hyperstabilized c met.

In one aspect the invention provides a substance capable of specifically binding to hyperstabilized c met. In one embodiment the substance comprises an inhibitory activity against biological activity associated with the hyperstabilized c met. In another embodiment the substance is capable of specific binding to the hyperstabilized c met. In one embodiment the substance binds to hyperstabilized c met and inhibits c met activity. In one embodiment the substance binds to hyperstabilized c met without substantially inhibiting c met activity. These substances find a variety of uses for example as molecules for targeting therapeutic agents to a cell expressing hyperstabilized c met. Therapeutic agents include any of the agents described herein e.g. toxins. Substances can be in any suitable form including in the form of antibody drug conjugations and fusion polypeptides.

In one aspect the invention provides c met antagonists that disrupt HGF c met signaling associated with a hyperstabilized c met protein. In one embodiment the invention provides an antagonist that inhibits c met signaling activity of a human hyperstabilized c met polypeptide wherein the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide comprises a deletion of at least a portion of exon 14 such that its rate of degradation in a cell is diminished compared to wild type c met and wherein the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide has c met signaling activity.

An antagonist of the invention can be of any form capable of specifically inhibiting activity of a hyperstabilized c met molecule as described herein. In one embodiment an antagonist of the invention comprises an antibody. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention specifically binds to an epitope formed by in frame splicing of exon 13 and exon 15 of c met. In one embodiment at least a portion of exon 14 is deleted as a result of said in frame splicing. In another aspect an antagonist of the invention comprises an aptamer. In one embodiment an aptamer of the invention specifically binds to an epitope formed by in frame splicing of exon 13 and exon 15 of c met. In one embodiment at least a portion of exon 14 is deleted as a result of said in frame splicing. In one aspect an antagonist of the invention comprises an inhibitory RNA that preferentially selectively inhibits expression from a nucleic acid molecule encoding a splice variant of c met wherein exon 13 is spliced to exon 15. In one embodiment the nucleic acid encodes a hyperstabilized c met in which at least a portion of exon 14 is deleted as a result of variant splicing. In one aspect the invention provides an antagonist comprising an antisense oligonucleotide that preferentially selectively inhibits a nucleic acid molecule encoding a splice variant of c met wherein exon 13 is spliced to exon 15. In one embodiment the nucleic acid molecule encodes a hyperstabilized c met in which at least a portion of exon 14 is deleted as a result of variant splicing.

Inhibition of c met activity can be effected in any of a number of ways known in the art so long as biological activity of hyperstabilized c met is diminished in a cell. For example in one embodiment inhibition of c met activity by an antagonist of the invention comprises enhancement of cellular degradation of the hyperstabilized c met protein. In another embodiment inhibition of c met activity by an antagonist of the invention comprises inhibition of phosphorylation of the hyperstabilized c met protein. In yet another embodiment inhibition of c met activity by an antagonist of the invention comprises inhibition of phosphorylation of a member of the HGF c met signaling pathway by the hyperstabilized c met. Inhibition of c met activity by an antagonist of the invention can also be effected by reduction of levels of hyperstabilized c met polypeptide in a cell. Thus for example in one embodiment inhibition of c met activity by an antagonist of the invention comprises inhibition of expression of hyperstabilized c met protein for example transcription and or translation from a polynucleotide encoding a hyperstabilized c met polypeptide. In another embodiment inhibition of c met activity by an antagonist of the invention comprises cell death associatd with a cytotoxin linked to a molecule e.g. an antibody drug conjugate that specifically binds to hyperstabilized c met in a cell.

In one embodiment an antagonist of the invention is a monoclonal antibody antibody fragment chimeric antibody humanized antibody human antibody multi specific antibody or single chain antibody. Antagonists employed in the methods of the invention may optionally be conjugated to a growth inhibitory agent or cytotoxic agent such as a toxin including for example a maytansinoid or calicheamicin an antibiotic a radioactive isotope a nucleolytic enzyme or the like. In some embodiments of methods of the invention a chemotherapeutic agent is also administered to the subject.

In general effective c met antagonists include c met inhibitors that interfere with binding of a ligand such as HGF to hyperstabilized c met. For example a c met inhibitor may bind to hyperstabilized c met such that binding of HGF to c met is inhibited. In one embodiment an antagonist antibody is a chimeric antibody for example an antibody comprising antigen binding sequences from a non human donor grafted to a heterologous non human human or humanized sequence e.g. framework and or constant domain sequences . In one embodiment the non human donor is a mouse. In one embodiment an antigen binding sequence is synthetic e.g. obtained by mutagenesis e.g. phage display screening etc. . In one embodiment a chimeric antibody of the invention has murine V regions and human C region. In one embodiment the murine light chain V region is fused to a human kappa light chain. In one embodiment the murine heavy chain V region is fused to a human IgG1 C region. In one embodiment the antigen binding sequences comprise at least one at least two or all three CDRs of a light and or heavy chain. In one embodiment the antigen binding sequences comprise a heavy chain CDR3. In one embodiment the antigen binding sequences comprise part or all of the CDR and or variable domain sequences of the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited under American Type Culture Collection Accession Number ATCC HB 11894 hybridoma 1A3.3.13 or HB 11895 hybridoma 5D5.11.6 . In one embodiment the antigen binding sequences comprise at least CDR3 of the heavy chain of the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line 1A3.3.13 or 5D5.11.6. Humanized antibodies of the invention include those that have amino acid substitutions in the FR and affinity maturation variants with changes in the grafted CDRs. The substituted amino acids in the CDR or FR are not limited to those present in the donor or recipient antibody. In other embodiments the antibodies of the invention further comprise changes in amino acid residues in the Fc region that lead to improved effector function including enhanced CDC and or ADCC function and B cell killing. Other antibodies of the invention include those having specific changes that improve stability. Antibodies of the invention also include fucose deficient variants having improved ADCC function in vivo.

In one embodiment an antibody fragment of the invention comprises an antigen binding arm comprising a heavy chain comprising at least one at least two or all three of CDR sequences selected from the group consisting of SYWLH SEQ ID NO 1 MIDPSNSDTRFNPNFKD SEQ ID NO 2 and YGSYVSPLDY SEQ ID NO 3 . In one embodiment the antigen binding arm comprises heavy chain CDR H1 having amino acid sequence SYWLH. In one embodiment the antigen binding arm comprises heavy chain CDR H2 having amino acid sequence MIDPSNSDTRFNPNFKD. In one embodiment the antigen binding arm comprises heavy chain CDR H3 having amino acid sequence YGSYVSPLDY. In one embodiment an antibody fragment of the invention comprises an antigen binding arm comprising a light chain comprising at least one at least two or all three of CDR sequences selected from the group consisting of KSSQSLLYTSSQKNYLA SEQ ID NO 4 WASTRES SEQ ID NO 5 and QQYYAYPWT SEQ ID NO 6 . In one embodiment the antigen binding arm comprises heavy chain CDR L1 having amino acid sequence KSSQSLLYTSSQKNYLA. In one embodiment the antigen binding arm comprises heavy chain CDR L2 having amino acid sequence WASTRES. In one embodiment the antigen binding arm comprises heavy chain CDR L3 having amino acid sequence QQYYAYPWT. In one embodiment an antibody fragment of the invention comprises an antigen binding arm comprising a heavy chain comprising at least one at least two or all three of CDR sequences selected from the group consisting of SYWLH SEQ ID NO 1 MIDPSNSDTRFNPNFKD SEQ ID NO 2 and YGSYVSPLDY SEQ ID NO 3 and a light chain comprising at least one at least two or all three of CDR sequences selected from the group consisting of KSSQSLLYTSSQKNYLA SEQ ID NO 4 WASTRES SEQ ID NO 5 and QQYYAYPWT SEQ ID NO 6 .

The invention provides a humanized antagonist antibody that binds human hyperstabilized c met or an antigen binding fragment thereof wherein the antibody is effective to inhibit human hyperstabilized HGF c met activity in vivo the antibody comprising in the H chain Variable region V at least a CDR3 sequence of the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited under American Type Culture Collection Accession Number ATCC HB 11894 hybridoma 1A3.3.13 or HB 11895 hybridoma 5D5.11.6 and substantially a human consensus sequence e.g. substantially the human consensus framework FR residues of human heavy chain subgroup III VIII . In one embodiment the antibody further comprises the H chain CDR1 sequence and or CDR2 sequence of the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited under American Type Culture Collection Accession Number ATCC HB 11894 hybridoma 1A3.3.13 or HB 11895 hybridoma 5D5.11.6 . In another embodiment the preceding antibody comprises the L chain CDR1 sequence CDR2 sequence and or CDR3 sequence of the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited under American Type Culture Collection Accession Number ATCC HB 11894 hybridoma 1A3.3.13 or HB 11895 hybridoma 5D5.11.6 with substantially the human consensus framework FR residues of human light chain K subgroup I V I .

In one embodiment an antibody fragment of the invention comprises an antigen binding arm comprising a heavy chain variable domain having the sequence 

In one embodiment an antibody fragment of the invention comprises an antigen binding arm comprising a light chain variable domain having the sequence 

DIMMSQSPSSLTVSVGEKVTVSCKSSQSLLYTSSQKNYLAWYQQKPGQSPKL LIYWASTRESGVPDRFTGSGSGTDFTLTITSVKADDLAVYYCQQYYAYPWTFGGGTK LEIK SEQ ID NO 8 

Yet in other instances it may be advantageous to have a c met antagonist that does not interfere with binding of a ligand such as HGF to c met. Accordingly in some embodiments an antagonist of the invention does not bind a ligand such as HGF binding site on c met. In another embodiment an antagonist of the invention does not substantially inhibit ligand e.g. HGF binding to c met. In one embodiment an antagonist of the invention does not substantially compete with a ligand e.g. HGF for binding to c met. In one example an antagonist of the invention can be used in conjunction with one or more other antagonists wherein the antagonists are targeted at different processes and or functions within the HGF c met axis. Thus in one embodiment a c met antagonist of the invention binds to an epitope on c met distinct from an epitope to which another c met antagonist such as the Fab fragment of the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited under American Type Culture Collection Accession Number ATCC HB 11894 hybridoma 1A3.3.13 or HB 11895 hybridoma 5D5.11.6 binds. In another embodiment a c met antagonist of the invention is distinct from i.e. it is not a Fab fragment of the monoclonal antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited under American Type Culture Collection Accession Number ATCC HB 11894 hybridoma 1A3.3.13 or HB 11895 hybridoma 5D5.11.6 . In one embodiment a c met antagonist of the invention does not comprise a c met binding sequence of an antibody produced by the hybridoma cell line deposited under American Type Culture Collection Accession Number ATCC HB 11894 hybridoma 1A3.3.13 or HB 11895 hybridoma 5D5.11.6 . In one embodiment an antagonist of the invention inhibits c met activity but does not bind to a wild type juxtamembrane domain of c met.

In one embodiment of a c met antagonist of the invention binding of the antagonist to c met inhibits c met activation by HGF. In one embodiment of a c met antagonist of the invention binding of the antagonist to c met in a cell inhibits proliferation scattering morphogenesis and or motility of the cell. In one embodiment a c met antagonist of the invention binds to hyperstabilized c met in a cell resulting in cell death. For example in one embodiment the antagonist is linked to a toxin as described herein.

In some embodiments a c met antagonist of the invention is or comprises a peptide e.g. an oligopeptide antibody antibody fragment aptamer oligonucleotide e.g. antisense oligonucleotide inhibitory RNA or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments a c met antagonist of the invention is obtained by a screening or identification method of the invention as described herein.

In another aspect the invention provides methods for screening for or identifying a c met antagonist. In one example said methods comprise contacting a candidate substance with a target molecule comprising at least a portion of hyperstabilized c met whereby a substance that specifically binds said target molecule is selected as a c met antagonist . In one embodiment the methods further comprises determining that a selected candidate substance specifically binds to a mutated region of hyperstabilized c met. For example if the target molecule comprises a polypeptide a selected candidate substance should specifically bind to an epitope comprising a mutated position or region of hyperstabilized c met. In another example if the target molecule comprises a nucleic acid encoding at least a portion of hyperstabilized c met a selected candidate substance should specifically inhibit expression of hyperstabilized c met protein from a nucleic acid encoding hyperstabilized c met. In some embodiments screening methods of the invention further comprise contacting a selected substance with a cell expressing hyperstabilized c met wherein inhibition of c met activity in the cell is assessed e.g. wherein extent of downstream c met signaling e.g. MAPK phosphorylation is detected or quantitated . Inhibition of c met signaling activity can be assayed in a variety of ways known in the art and based on any of a variety of criteria known in the art some of which are described in greater detail herein. For example inhibition of c met signaling activity may be indicated by a decrease in amount of c met activation which may in turn be indicated by for instance amount of c met associated cell signaling within a cell. Cell signaling can be assessed by a variety of methods and based on a variety of criteria which are known in the art some of which are described herein. For example occurrence of cell signaling in the HGF c met pathway can manifest biologically in the form of change in phosphorylation of target molecules in the signaling pathway. Thus e.g. amount of protein phosphorylation associated with one or more known phosphorylation targets in the HGF c met pathway could be measured. Examples of such phosphorylation targets include c met itself and mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK .

In one aspect the invention provides compositions comprising one or more antagonists of the invention and a carrier. In one embodiment the carrier is pharmaceutically acceptable.

In one aspect the invention provides nucleic acids encoding a c met antagonist of the invention. In one embodiment a nucleic acid of the invention encodes a c met antagonist which is or comprises a polypeptide e.g. an oligopeptide . In one embodiment a nucleic acid of the invention encodes a c met antagonist which is or comprises an antibody or fragment thereof. In one embodiment a nucleic acid of the invention is an aptamer. In one embodiment a nucleic acid of the invention is an antisense oligonucleotide. In one embodiment a nucleic acid of the invention is an inhibitory RNA e.g. small interfering RNA .

In one aspect the invention provides host cells comprising a nucleic acid or a vector of the invention. A vector can be of any type for example a recombinant vector such as an expression vector. Any of a variety of host cells can be used. In one embodiment a host cell is a prokaryotic cell for example . In one embodiment a host cell is a eukaryotic cell for example a mammalian cell such as Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cell.

In one aspect the invention provides methods for making an antagonist of the invention. For example the invention provides a method of making a c met antagonist which is or comprises an antibody or fragment thereof said method comprising expressing in a suitable host cell a recombinant vector of the invention encoding said antibody or fragment thereof and recovering said antibody. In another example the invention provides a method of making a c met antagonist which is or comprises a polypeptide such as an oligopeptide said method comprising expressing in a suitable host cell a recombinant vector of the invention encoding said polypeptide such as an oligopeptide and recovering said polypeptide such as an oligopeptide .

In one aspect the invention provides an article of manufacture comprising a container and a composition contained within the container wherein the composition comprises one or more c met antagonists of the invention. In one embodiment the composition comprises a nucleic acid of the invention. In one embodiment a composition comprising antagonist further comprises a carrier which in some embodiments is pharmaceutically acceptable. In one embodiment an article of manufacture of the invention further comprises instructions for administering the composition e.g. the antagonist to a subject.

In one aspect the invention provides a kit comprising a first container comprising a composition comprising one or more c met antagonists of the invention and a second container comprising a buffer. In one embodiment the buffer is pharmaceutically acceptable. In one embodiment a composition comprising antagonist further comprises a carrier which in some embodiments is pharmaceutically acceptable. In one embodiment a kit further comprises instructions for administering the composition e.g. the antagonist to a subject.

In one aspect the invention provides use of a c met antagonist of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of a disease such as a cancer a tumor a cell proliferative disorder an immune such as autoimmune disorder and or an angiogenesis related disorder. The c met antagonist can be of any form described herein including antibody antibody fragment polypeptide e.g. an oligopeptide nucleic acid e.g. an oligonucleotide such as an antisense oligonucleotide inhibitory RNA an aptamer or combination thereof.

In one aspect the invention provides use of a nucleic acid of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of a disease such as a cancer a tumor a cell proliferative disorder an immune such as autoimmune disorder and or an angiogenesis related disorder.

In one aspect the invention provides use of an expression vector of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of a disease such as a cancer a tumor a cell proliferative disorder an immune such as autoimmune disorder and or an angiogenesis related disorder.

In one aspect the invention provides use of a host cell of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of a disease such as a cancer a tumor a cell proliferative disorder an immune such as autoimmune disorder and or an angiogenesis related disorder.

In one aspect the invention provides use of an article of manufacture of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of a disease such as a cancer a tumor a cell proliferative disorder an immune such as autoimmune disorder and or an angiogenesis related disorder.

In one aspect the invention provides use of a kit of the invention in the preparation of a medicament for the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of a disease such as a cancer a tumor a cell proliferative disorder an immune such as autoimmune disorder and or an angiogenesis related disorder.

The invention provides methods and compositions useful for modulating disease states associated with dysregulation of the HGF c met signaling axis associated with delayed down regulation of c met. The HGF c met signaling pathway is involved in multiple biological and physiological functions including e.g. cell proliferation and angiogenesis. Thus in one aspect the invention provides a method comprising administering to a subject an antagonist that targets hyperstabilized c met whereby HGF c met signaling is modulated.

In one aspect the invention provides a method of treating a tumor in a subject said method comprising administering an antagonist of the invention to a subject whereby the tumor is treated. In one embodiment the tumor is determined to comprise hyperstabilized c met. In one embodiment the tumor is determined to comprise mutant c met comprising deletion of at least a portion of exon 14.

In one embodiment of methods of the invention a c met inhibitor of the invention is administered in conjunction with an agent that induces and or enhances receptor protein degradation.

In one aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting c met activated cell proliferation said method comprising contacting a cell or tissue with an effective amount of a c met antagonist of the invention whereby cell proliferation associated with c met activation is inhibited.

In one aspect the invention provides a method of treating a pathological condition associated with dysregulation of c met activation in a subject said method comprising administering to the subject an effective amount of a c met antagonist of the invention whereby said condition is treated.

In one aspect the invention provides a method of inhibiting the growth of a cell that expresses c met or hepatocyte growth factor or both said method comprising contacting said cell with a c met antagonist of the invention thereby causing an inhibition of growth of said cell. In one embodiment the cell is contacted by HGF expressed by a different cell e.g. through a paracrine effect .

In one aspect the invention provides a method of therapeutically treating a mammal having a cancerous tumor comprising a cell that expresses c met or hepatocyte growth factor or both said method comprising administering to said mammal an effective amount of a c met antagonist of the invention thereby effectively treating said mammal. In one embodiment the cell is contacted by HGF expressed by a different cell e.g. through a paracrine effect .

In one aspect the invention provides a method for treating or preventing a cell proliferative disorder associated with increased expression or activity of c met or hepatocyte growth or both said method comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of a c met antagonist of the invention thereby effectively treating or preventing said cell proliferative disorder. In one embodiment said proliferative disorder is cancer.

In one aspect the invention provides a method for inhibiting the growth of a cell wherein growth of said cell is at least in part dependent upon a growth potentiating effect of c met or hepatocyte growth factor or both said method comprising contacting said cell with an effective amount of a c met antagonist of the invention thereby inhibiting the growth of said cell. In one embodiment the cell is contacted by HGF expressed by a different cell e.g. through a paracrine effect .

In one aspect the invention provides a method of therapeutically treating a tumor in a mammal wherein the growth of said tumor is at least in part dependent upon a growth potentiating effect of c met or hepatocyte growth factor or both said method comprising contacting said cell with an effective amount of a c met antagonist of the invention thereby effectively treating said tumor. In one embodiment the cell is contacted by HGF expressed by a different cell e.g. through a paracrine effect .

Methods of the invention can be used to affect any suitable pathological state for example cells and or tissues associated with dysregulation of the HGF c met signaling pathway. In one embodiment a cell that is targeted in a method of the invention is a cancer cell. For example a cancer cell can be one selected from the group consisting of a breast cancer cell a colorectal cancer cell a lung cancer cell a papillary carcinoma cell e.g. of the thyroid gland a colon cancer cell a pancreatic cancer cell an ovarian cancer cell a cervical cancer cell a central nervous system cancer cell an osteogenic sarcoma cell a renal carcinoma cell a hepatocellular carcinoma cell a bladder cancer cell aprostate cancer cell a gastric carcinoma cell a head and neck squamous carcinoma cell a lymphoma cell a melanoma cell and a leukemia cell. In one embodiment a cell that is targeted in a method of the invention is a hyperproliferative and or hyperplastic cell. In one embodiment a cell that is targeted in a method of the invention is a dysplastic cell. In yet another embodiment a cell that is targeted in a method of the invention is a metastatic cell.

Methods of the invention can further comprise additional treatment steps. For example in one embodiment a method further comprises a step wherein a targeted cell and or tissue e.g. a cancer cell is exposed to radiation treatment and or a chemotherapeutic agent.

As described herein c met activation is an important biological process the dysregulation of which leads to numerous pathological conditions. Accordingly in one embodiment of methods of the invention a cell that is targeted e.g. a cancer cell is one in which activation of c met is enhanced as compared to a normal cell of the same tissue origin. In one embodiment a method of the invention causes the death of a targeted cell. For example contact with an antagonist of the invention may result in a cell s inability to signal through the c met pathway which results in cell death or inhibition of cell growth. In another example an antagonist of the invention targets a linked toxin to a cell expressing hyperstabilized c met.

Dysregulation of c met activation and thus signaling can result from a number of cellular changes including for example overexpression of HGF c met s cognate ligand and or c met itself due to delayed down regulation degradation increased expression levels etc. . Accordingly in some embodiments a method of the invention comprises targeting a cell wherein c met or hepatoctye growth factor or both is more abundantly expressed by said cell e.g. a cancer cell as compared to a normal cell of the same tissue origin. A c met expressing cell can be regulated by HGF from a variety of sources i.e. in an autocrine or paracrine manner. For example in one embodiment of methods of the invention a targeted cell is contacted bound by hepatocyte growth factor expressed in by a different cell e.g. via a paracrine effect . Said different cell can be of the same or of a different tissue origin relative to a targeted cell. In one embodiment a targeted cell is contacted bound by HGF expressed by the targeted cell itself e.g. via an autocrine effect loop . C met activation and or signaling can also occur independent of ligand. Hence in one embodiment of methods of the invention c met activation in a targeted cell occurs independent of ligand.

In one embodiment of methods of the invention the methods further comprise a step of determining whether a tumor cell comprises hyperstabilized c met e.g. by detecting a polynucleotide or polypeptide mutation as described herein .

The invention provides methods compositions kits and articles of manufacture for identifying inhibitors of the HGF c met signaling pathway in particular inhibitors of hyperstabilized c met and methods of using such inhibitors.

The practice of the present invention will employ unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of molecular biology including recombinant techniques microbiology cell biology biochemistry and immunology which are within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature such as Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual second edition Sambrook et al. 1989 Oligonucleotide Synthesis M. J. Gait ed. 1984 Animal Cell Culture R. I. Freshney ed. 1987 Methods in Enzymology Academic Press Inc. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology F. M. Ausubel et al. eds. 1987 and periodic updates PCR The Polymerase Chain Reaction Mullis et al. ed. 1994 A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning Perbal Bernard V. 1988 .

The term hyperstabilized c met and variations thereof as used herein refers to a naturally occuring mutant human c met that is degraded down regulated at a rate that is detectably slower than that of a wild type c met. Methods of comparing degration down regulation rates between wild type c met and a hyperstabilized c met would be evident to one skilled in the art including for example as described in the Examples below. In one instance delayed degradation down regulation is assessed based on quantitating receptor protein levels in a cell. In another instance delayed degradation down regulation is determined based detection of a mutation in a c met site that is associated with Cbl binding to c met. In one instance the mutation is in a c met site that is associated with c met ubiquitination e.g. in c met exon 14 and receptor protein degradation down regulation. These mutations can arise in any form that results in expression of a mutated c met protein that is degraded down regulated at a slower rate than wild type c met wherein the mutated c met protein is capable of wild type c met associated activity e.g. phosphorylating downstream molecules such as MAPK stimulating cell proliferation and or induction of tumorigenic events . For example these mutations include those that are associated with expression of a functional in frame c met splice variant lacking at least a portion of exon 14 that is associated with receptor protein degradation down regulation. Illustrative examples of mutations include those found in a splicing element as depicted in . In one embodiment presence of a hyperstabilized c met protein of the invention in a cell is associated with prolonged and or increased phosphorylation of downstream molecules in the HGF c met pathway as compared with a similar amount of wild type c met protein in a cell 

The term vector as used herein is intended to refer to a nucleic acid molecule capable of transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. One type of vector is a plasmid which refers to a circular double stranded DNA loop into which additional DNA segments may be ligated. Another type of vector is a phage vector. Another type of vector is a viral vector wherein additional DNA segments may be ligated into the viral genome. Certain vectors are capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced e.g. bacterial vectors having a bacterial origin of replication and episomal mammalian vectors . Other vectors e.g. non episomal mammalian vectors can be integrated into the genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host cell and thereby are replicated along with the host genome. Moreover certain vectors are capable of directing the expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such vectors are referred to herein as recombinant expression vectors or simply recombinant vectors . In general expression vectors of utility in recombinant DNA techniques are often in the form of plasmids. In the present specification plasmid and vector may be used interchangeably as the plasmid is the most commonly used form of vector.

 Polynucleotide or nucleic acid as used interchangeably herein refer to polymers of nucleotides of any length and include DNA and RNA. The nucleotides can be deoxyribonucleotides ribonucleotides modified nucleotides or bases and or their analogs or any substrate that can be incorporated into a polymer by DNA or RNA polymerase or by a synthetic reaction. A polynucleotide may comprise modified nucleotides such as methylated nucleotides and their analogs. If present modification to the nucleotide structure may be imparted before or after assembly of the polymer. The sequence of nucleotides may be interrupted by non nucleotide components. A polynucleotide may be further modified after synthesis such as by conjugation with a label. Other types of modifications include for example caps substitution of one or more of the naturally occurring nucleotides with an analog internucleotide modifications such as for example those with uncharged linkages e.g. methyl phosphonates phosphotriesters phosphoamidates carbamates etc. and with charged linkages e.g. phosphorothioates phosphorodithioates etc. those containing pendant moieties such as for example proteins e.g. nucleases toxins antibodies signal peptides ply L lysine etc. those with intercalators e.g. acridine psoralen etc. those containing chelators e.g. metals radioactive metals boron oxidative metals etc. those containing alkylators those with modified linkages e.g. alpha anomeric nucleic acids etc. as well as unmodified forms of the polynucleotide s . Further any of the hydroxyl groups ordinarily present in the sugars may be replaced for example by phosphonate groups phosphate groups protected by standard protecting groups or activated to prepare additional linkages to additional nucleotides or may be conjugated to solid or semi solid supports. The 5 and 3 terminal OH can be phosphorylated or substituted with amines or organic capping group moieties of from 1 to 20 carbon atoms. Other hydroxyls may also be derivatized to standard protecting groups. Polynucleotides can also contain analogous forms of ribose or deoxyribose sugars that are generally known in the art including for example 2 O methyl 2 O allyl 2 fluoro or 2 azido ribose carbocyclic sugar analogs .alpha. anomeric sugars epimeric sugars such as arabinose xyloses or lyxoses pyranose sugars furanose sugars sedoheptuloses acyclic analogs and abasic nucleoside analogs such as methyl riboside. One or more phosphodiester linkages may be replaced by alternative linking groups. These alternative linking groups include but are not limited to embodiments wherein phosphate is replaced by P O S thioate P S S dithioate O NR.sub.2 amidate P O R P O OR CO or CH.sub.2 formacetal in which each R or R is independently H or substituted or unsubstituted alkyl 1 20 C. optionally containing an ether O linkage aryl alkenyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl or araldyl. Not all linkages in a polynucleotide need be identical. The preceding description applies to all polynucleotides referred to herein including RNA and DNA.

 Oligonucleotide as used herein generally refers to short generally single stranded generally synthetic polynucleotides that are generally but not necessarily less than about 200 nucleotides in length. The terms oligonucleotide and polynucleotide are not mutually exclusive. The description above for polynucleotides is equally and fully applicable to oligonucleotides.

The term hepatocyte growth factor or HGF as used herein refers unless indicated otherwise to any native or variant whether native or synthetic HGF polypeptide that is capable of activating the HGF c met signaling pathway under conditions that permit such process to occur. The term wild type HGF generally refers to a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring HGF protein. Thet term wild type HGF sequence generally refers to an amino acid sequence found in a naturally occurring HGF. C met or Met is a known receptor for HGF through which HGF intracellular signaling is biologically effectuated. A wild type human c met protein sequence based on RefSeq NM000245 is depicted in .

The terms splice site splice junction branch point polypyrimidine tract as used herein refer to the meaning known in the art in the context of mammalian in particular human RNA splicing. See e.g. Pagani Baralle Nature Reviews Genetics 2004 5 389 396 and references cited therein. For convenient reference one embodiment of sequences for c met RNA splicing elements is illustratively set forth in .

The term host cell or recombinant host cell as used herein is intended to refer to a cell that has been genetically altered or is capable of being genetically altered by introduction of an exogenous polynucleotide such as a recombinant plasmid or vector. It should be understood that such terms are intended to refer not only to the particular subject cell but to the progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or environmental influences such progeny may not in fact be identical to the parent cell but are still included within the scope of the term host cell as used herein.

 Antibodies Abs and immunoglobulins Igs are glycoproteins having the same structural characteristics. While antibodies exhibit binding specificity to a specific antigen immunoglobulins include both antibodies and other antibody like molecules which generally lack antigen specificity. Polypeptides of the latter kind are for example produced at low levels by the lymph system and at increased levels by myelomas.

The terms antibody and immunoglobulin are used interchangeably in the broadest sense and include monoclonal antibodies e.g. full length or intact monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies monovalent multivalent antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity and may also include certain antibody fragments as described in greater detail herein . An antibody can be chimeric human humanized and or affinity matured.

 Antibody fragments comprise only a portion of an intact antibody wherein the portion preferably retains at least one preferably most or all of the functions normally associated with that portion when present in an intact antibody. In one embodiment an antibody fragment comprises an antigen binding site of the intact antibody and thus retains the ability to bind antigen. In another embodiment an antibody fragment for example one that comprises the Fc region retains at least one of the biological functions normally associated with the Fc region when present in an intact antibody such as FcRn binding antibody half life modulation ADCC function and complement binding. In one embodiment an antibody fragment is a monovalent antibody that has an in vivo half life substantially similar to an intact antibody. For example such an antibody fragment may comprise on antigen binding arm linked to an Fc sequence capable of conferring in vivo stability to the fragment.

The term hypervariable region HVR or HV when used herein refers to the regions of an antibody variable domain which are hypervariable in sequence and or form structurally defined loops. The letters HC and LC preceding the term HVR or HV refers respectively to HVR or HV of a heavy chain and light chain. Generally antibodies comprise six hypervariable regions three in the VH H1 H2 H3 and three in the VL L1 L2 L3 . A number of hypervariable region delineations are in use and are encompassed herein. The Kabat Complementarity Determining Regions CDRs are based on sequence variability and are the most commonly used Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1991 . Chothia refers instead to the location of the structural loops Chothia and Lesk 196 901 917 1987 . The AbM hypervariable regions represent a compromise between the Kabat CDRs and Chothia structural loops and are used by Oxford Molecular s AbM antibody modeling software. The contact hypervariable regions are based on an analysis of the available complex crystal structures. The residues from each of these hypervariable regions are noted below.

 Framework or FR residues are those variable domain residues other than the hypervariable region residues as herein defined.

The variable region or variable domain of an antibody refers to the amino terminal domains of heavy or light chain of the antibody. These domains are generally the most variable parts of an antibody and contain the antigen binding sites.

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific being directed against a single antigen. Furthermore in contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations that typically include different antibodies directed against different determinants epitopes each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen.

The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically include chimeric antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and or light chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass while the remainder of the chain s is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments of such antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Morrison et al. 81 6851 6855 1984 .

 Humanized forms of non human e.g. murine antibodies are chimeric antibodies that contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. For the most part humanized antibodies are human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues from a hypervariable region of the recipient are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat rabbit or non human primate having the desired specificity affinity and capacity. In some instances framework region FR residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human residues. Furthermore humanized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody. These modifications are made to further refine antibody performance. In general the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable loops correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FRs are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence. The humanized antibody optionally will also comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For further details see Jones et al. 321 522 525 1986 Riechmann et al. 332 323 329 1988 and Presta 2 593 596 1992 . See also the following review articles and references cited therein Vaswani and Hamilton 1 105 115 1998 Harris 23 1035 1038 1995 Hurle and Gross 5 428 433 1994 .

A human antibody is one which possesses an amino acid sequence which corresponds to that of an antibody produced by a human and or has been made using any of the techniques for making human antibodies as disclosed herein. This definition of a human antibody specifically excludes a humanized antibody comprising non human antigen binding residues.

An affinity matured antibody is one with one or more alterations in one or more CDRs HVRs thereof which result in an improvement in the affinity of the antibody for antigen compared to a parent antibody which does not possess those alteration s . Preferred affinity matured antibodies will have nanomolar or even picomolar affinities for the target antigen. Affinity matured antibodies are produced by procedures known in the art. Marks et al. 10 779 783 1992 describes affinity maturation by VH and VL domain shuffling. Random mutagenesis of CDR HVR and or framework residues is described by Barbas et al. 91 3809 3813 1994 Schier et al. 169 147 155 1995 Yelton et al. 155 1994 2004 1995 Jackson et al. 154 7 3310 9 1995 and Hawkins et al 226 889 896 1992 .

The term Fc region is used to define the C terminal region of an immunoglobulin heavy chain which may be generated by papain digestion of an intact antibody. The Fc region may be a native sequence Fc region or a variant Fc region. Although the boundaries of the Fc region of an immunoglobulin heavy chain might vary the human IgG heavy chain Fc region is usually defined to stretch from an amino acid residue at about position Cys226 or from about position Pro230 to the carboxyl terminus of the Fc region. The Fc region of an immunoglobulin generally comprises two constant domains a CH2 domain and a CH3 domain and optionally comprises a CH4 domain. By Fc region chain herein is meant one of the two polypeptide chains of an Fc region.

The term cytotoxic agent as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents the function of cells and or causes destruction of cells. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes e.g. At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi Pand radioactive isotopes of Lu chemotherapeutic agents and toxins such as small molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin including fragments and or variants thereof.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol dronabinol MARINOL beta lapachone lapachol colchicines betulinic acid a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan HYCAMTIN CPT 11 irinotecan CAMPTOSAR acetylcamptothecin scopolectin and 9 aminocamptothecin bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues podophyllotoxin podophyllinic acid teniposide cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarnycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gammall and calicheamicin omegall see e.g. Agnew Chem Intl. Ed. Engl. 33 183 186 1994 dynemicin including dynemicin A an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antiobiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine doxorubicin including ADRIAMYCIN morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin doxorubicin HCl liposome injection DOXIL and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate gemcitabine GEMZAR tegafur UFTORAL capecitabine XELODA an epothilone and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine ELDISINE FILDESIN dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C thiotepa taxoids e.g. paclitaxel TAXOL albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel ABRAXANE and doxetaxel TAXOTERE chloranbucil 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine VELBAN platinum etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine ONCOVIN oxaliplatin leucovovin vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluorometlhylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP an abbreviation for a combined therapy of cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisolone and FOLFOX an abbreviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin ELOXATIN combined with 5 FU and leucovovin.

Also included in this definition are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate reduce block or inhibit the effects of hormones that can promote the growth of cancer and are often in the form of systemic or whole body treatment. They may be hormones themselves. Examples include anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen raloxifene EVISTA droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and toremifene FARESTON anti progesterones estrogen receptor down regulators ERDs estrogen receptor antagonists such as fulvestrant FASLODEX agents that function to suppress or shut down the ovaries for example leutinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH agonists such as leuprolide acetate LUPRON and ELIGARD goserelin acetate buserelin acetate and tripterelin other anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide and bicalutamide and aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide megestrol acetate MEGASE exemestane AROMASIN formestanie fadrozole vorozole RIVISOR letrozole FEMARA and anastrozole ARIMIDEX . In addition such definition of chemotherapeutic agents includes bisphosphonates such as clodronate for example BONEFOS or OSTAC. etidronate DIDROCAL NE 58095 zoledronic acid zoledronate ZOMETA alendronate FOSAMAX pamidronate AREDIA tiludronate SKELID or risedronate ACTONEL as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those that inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in abherant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf H Ras and epidermal growth factor receptor EGF R vaccines such as THERATOPE vaccine and gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN vaccine LEUVECTIN vaccine and VAXID vaccine topoisomerase 1 inhibitor e.g. LURTOTECAN rmRH e.g. ABARELIX lapatinib ditosylate an ErbB 2 and EGFR dual tyrosine kinase small molecule inhibitor also known as GW572016 COX 2 inhibitors such as celecoxib CELEBREX 4 5 4 methylphenyl 3 trifluoromethyl 1H pyrazol 1 yl benzenesulfonamide and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

A blocking antibody or an antagonist antibody is one which inhibits or reduces biological activity of the antigen it binds. Such blocking can occur by any means e.g. by interfering with protein protein interaction such as ligand binding to a receptor. In on embodiment blocking antibodies or antagonist antibodies substantially or completely inhibit the biological activity of the antigen.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth proliferation. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma e.g. Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma of the lung squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney cancer liver cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma and various types of head and neck cancer.

As used herein treatment refers to clinical intervention in an attempt to alter the natural course of the individual or cell being treated and can be performed either for prophylaxis or during the course of clinical pathology. Desirable effects of treatment include preventing occurrence or recurrence of disease alleviation of symptoms diminishment of any direct or indirect pathological consequences of the disease preventing metastasis decreasing the rate of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission or improved prognosis. In some embodiments modulator molecules and methods of the invention are used to delay development of a disease or disorder.

An effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic or prophylactic result. A therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the individual and the ability of the antibody to elicit a desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the therapeutic agent are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. A prophylactically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically but not necessarily since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease the prophylactically effective amount will be less than the therapeutically effective amount.

In one embodiment the invention provides C met antagonist antibodies which may find use herein as therapeutic and or diagnostic agents. Exemplary antibodies include polyclonal monoclonal humanized bispecific and heteroconjugate antibodies. Aspects of generating identifying characterizing modifying and producing antibodies are well established in the art e.g. as described in US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2005 0042216 from paragraphs 522 through 563 604 through 608 and 617 through 688.

The C met antagonist antibodies disclosed herein can be formulated in any suitable form for delivery to a target cell tissue. For example the antibodies may be formulated as immunoliposomes. A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes. Liposomes containing the antibody are prepared by methods known in the art such as described in Epstein et al. 82 3688 1985 Hwang et al. 77 4030 1980 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 485 045 and 4 544 545 and WO97 38731 published Oct. 23 1997. Liposomes with enhanced circulation time are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 013 556.

Particularly useful liposomes can be generated by the reverse phase evaporation method with a lipid composition comprising phosphatidylcholine cholesterol and PEG derivatized phosphatidylethanolamine PEG PE . Liposomes are extruded through filters of defined pore size to yield liposomes with the desired diameter. Fab fragments of the antibody of the present invention can be conjugated to the liposomes as described in Martin et al. 257 286 288 1982 via a disulfide interchange reaction. A chemotherapeutic agent is optionally contained within the liposome. See Gabizon et al. 81 19 1484 1989 .

In one aspect a C met antagonist of the invention comprises a polypeptide. In one embodiment the antagonist polypeptide binds to and or antagonizes hyperstabilized c met protein in a cell. In one embodiment the polypeptides bind preferably specifically to hyperstabilized c met. The polypeptides may be chemically synthesized using known peptide synthesis methodology or may be prepared and purified using recombinant technology. In one embodiment a C met antagonist polypeptide is at least about 5 amino acids in length alternatively at least about 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 or 100 amino acids in length or more wherein such polypeptides are capable of inhibiting hyperstabilized c met activity. These polypeptides may be identified without undue experimentation using well known techniques. In this regard it is noted that techniques for screening oligopeptide libraries for oligopeptides that are capable of specifically binding to a polypeptide target are well known in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 556 762 5 750 373 4 708 871 4 833 092 5 223 409 5 403 484 5 571 689 5 663 143 PCT Publication Nos. WO 84 03506 and WO84 03564 Geysen et al. 81 3998 4002 1984 Geysen et al. 82 178 182 1985 Geysen et al. in 130 149 1986 Geysen et al. 102 259 274 1987 Schoofs et al. 140 611 616 1988 Cwirla S. E. et al. 1990 87 6378 Lowman H. B. et al. 1991 Biochemistry 30 10832 Clackson T. et al. 1991 352 624 Marks J. D. et al. 1991 222 581 Kang A. S. et al. 1991 88 8363 and Smith G. P. 1991 2 668 .

Bacteriophage phage display is one well known technique which allows one to screen large oligopeptide libraries to identify member s of those libraries which are capable of specifically binding to a polypeptide target. Phage display is a technique by which variant polypeptides are displayed as fusion proteins to the coat protein on the surface of bacteriophage particles Scott J. K. and Smith G. P. 1990 249 386 . The utility of phage display lies in the fact that large libraries of selectively randomized protein variants or randomly cloned cDNAs can be rapidly and efficiently sorted for those sequences that bind to a target molecule with high affinity. Display of peptide Cwirla S. E. et al. 1990 87 6378 or protein Lowman H. B. et al. 1991 30 10832 Clackson T. et al. 1991 352 624 Marks J. D. et al. 1991 222 581 Kang A. S. et al. 1991 88 8363 libraries on phage have been used for screening millions of polypeptides or oligopeptides for ones with specific binding properties Smith G. P. 1991 2 668 . Sorting phage libraries of random mutants requires a strategy for constructing and propagating a large number of variants a procedure for affinity purification using the target receptor and a means of evaluating the results of binding enrichments. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 223 409 5 403 484 5 571 689 and 5 663 143.

Although most phage display methods have used filamentous phage lambdoid phage display systems WO 95 34683 U.S. Pat. No. 5 627 024 T4 phage display systems Ren et al. 215 439 1998 Zhu et al. 58 15 3209 3214 1998 Jiang et al. 65 11 4770 4777 1997 Ren et al. 195 2 303 311 1997 Ren 5 1833 1996 Efimov et al. 10 173 1995 and T7 phage display systems Smith and Scott 217 228 257 1993 U.S. Pat. No. 5 766 905 are also known.

Many other improvements and variations of the basic phage display concept have now been developed. These improvements enhance the ability of display systems to screen peptide libraries for binding to selected target molecules and to display functional proteins with the potential of screening these proteins for desired properties.

Combinatorial reaction devices for phage display reactions have been developed WO 98 14277 and phage display libraries have been used to analyze and control bimolecular interactions WO 98 20169 WO 98 20159 and properties of constrained helical peptides WO 98 20036 . WO 97 35196 describes a method of isolating an affinity ligand in which a phage display library is contacted with one solution in which the ligand will bind to a target molecule and a second solution in which the affinity ligand will not bind to the target molecule to selectively isolate binding ligands. WO 97 46251 describes a method of biopanning a random phage display library with an affinity purified antibody and then isolating binding phage followed by a micropanning process using microplate wells to isolate high affinity binding phage. The use of protein A as an affinity tag has also been reported Li et al. 1998 Mol Biotech. 9 187 . WO 97 47314 describes the use of substrate subtraction libraries to distinguish enzyme specificities using a combinatorial library which may be a phage display library. A method for selecting enzymes suitable for use in detergents using phage display is described in WO 97 09446. Additional methods of selecting specific binding proteins are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 498 538 5 432 018 and WO 98 15833.

Methods of generating peptide libraries and screening these libraries are also disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 723 286 5 432 018 5 580 717 5 427 908 5 498 530 5 770 434 5 734 018 5 698 426 5 763 192 and 5 723 323.

Methods of generating identifying characterizing modifying and producing antagonist polypeptides are well established in the art e.g. as described in US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2005 0042216 from paragraphs 606 through 608 614 through 688.

In one embodiment polypeptides for antagonizing hyperstabilized c met activity can be designed based on hyperstabilized c met protein structure e.g. by screening based on a target antigen comprising a mutant c met juxtamembrane sequence comprising deletion of at least a portion of exon 14 as described herein. For example a target antigen can comprise a polypeptide comprising a sequence resulting from in frame splicing of exon 13 and 15 of c met.

In another aspect the invention provides immunoconjugates or antibody drug conjugates ADC comprising an antibody conjugated to a cytotoxic agent such as a chemotherapeutic agent a drug a growth inhibitory agent a toxin e.g. an enzymatically active toxin of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin or fragments thereof or a radioactive isotope i.e. a radioconjugate .

The use of antibody drug conjugates for the local delivery of cytotoxic or cytostatic agents i.e. drugs to kill or inhibit tumor cells in the treatment of cancer Syrigos and Epenetos 1999 Anticancer Research 19 605 614 Niculescu Duvaz and Springer 1997 Adv. Drg Del. Rev. 26 151 172 U.S. Pat. No. 4 975 278 allows targeted delivery of the drug moiety to tumors and intracellular accumulation therein where systemic administration of these unconjugated drug agents may result in unacceptable levels of toxicity to normal cells as well as the tumor cells sought to be eliminated Baldwin et al. 1986 Lancet pp. Mar. 15 1986 603 05 Thorpe 1985 Antibody Carriers Of Cytotoxic Agents In Cancer Therapy A Review in Monoclonal Antibodies 84 Biological And Clinical Applications A. Pinchera et al. ed.s pp. 475 506 . Maximal efficacy with minimal toxicity is sought thereby. Both polyclonal antibodies and monoclonal antibodies have been reported as useful in these strategies Rowland et al. 1986 Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 21 183 87 . Drugs used in these methods include daunomycin doxorubicin methotrexate and vindesine Rowland et al. 1986 supra . Toxins used in antibody toxin conjugates include bacterial toxins such as diphtheria toxin plant toxins such as ricin small molecule toxins such as geldanamycin Mandler et al 2000 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 92 19 1573 1581 Mandler et al 2000 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 10 1025 1028 Mandler et al 2002 Bioconjugate Chem. 13 786 791 maytansinoids EP 1391213 Liu et al. 1996 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93 8618 8623 and calicheamicin Lode et al 1998 Cancer Res. 58 2928 Hinman et al 1993 Cancer Res. 53 3336 3342 . The toxins may effect their cytotoxic and cytostatic effects by mechanisms including tubulin binding DNA binding or topoisomerase inhibition. Some cytotoxic drugs tend to be inactive or less active when conjugated to large antibodies or protein receptor ligands.

ZEVALIN ibritumomab tiuxetan Biogen Idec is an antibody radioisotope conjugate composed of a murine IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody directed against the CD20 antigen found on the surface of normal and malignant B lymphocytes and In or Y radioisotope bound by a thiourea linker chelator Wiseman et al 2000 Eur. Jour. Nucl. Med. 27 7 766 77 Wiseman et al 2002 Blood 99 12 4336 42 Witzig et al 2002 J. Clin. Oncol. 20 10 2453 63 Witzig et al 2002 J. Clin. Oncol. 20 15 3262 69 . Although ZEVALIN has activity against B cell non Hodgkin s Lymphoma NHL administration results in severe and prolonged cytopenias in most patients. MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogarnicin Wyeth Pharmaceuticals an antibody drug conjugate composed of a hu CD33 antibody linked to calicheamicin was approved in 2000 for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia by injection Drugs of the Future 2000 25 7 686 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 970 198 5 079 233 5 585 089 5 606 040 5 693 762 5 739 116 5 767 285 5 773 001 . Cantuzumab mertansine Immunogen Inc. an antibody drug conjugate composed of the huC242 antibody linked via the disulfide linker SPP to the maytansinoid drug moiety DM1 is tested for the treatment of cancers that express CanAg such as colon pancreatic gastric and others. MLN 2704 Millennium Pharm. BZL Biologics Immunogen Inc. an antibody drug conjugate composed of the anti prostate specific membrane antigen PSMA monoclonal antibody linked to the maytansinoid drug moiety DM1 is tested for the potential treatment of prostate tumors. The auristatin peptides auristatin E AE and monomethylauristatin MMAE synthetic analogs of dolastatin were conjugated to chimeric monoclonal antibodies cBR96 specific to Lewis Y on carcinomas and cAC10 specific to CD30 on hematological malignancies Doronina et al 2003 Nature Biotechnology 21 7 778 784 and are under therapeutic development.

Chemotherapeutic agents useful in the generation of immunoconjugates are described herein above . Enzymatically active toxins and fragments thereof that can be used include diphtheria A chain nonbinding active fragments of diphtheria toxin exotoxin A chain from ricin A chain abrin A chain modeccin A chain alpha sarcin Aleurites fordii proteins dianthin proteins Phytolaca americana proteins PAPI PAPII and PAP S inhibitor curcin crotin sapaonaria officinalis inhibitor gelonin mitogellin restrictocin phenomycin enomycin and the tricothecenes. See e.g. WO 93 21232 published Oct. 28 1993. A variety of radionuclides are available for the production of radioconjugated antibodies. Examples include Bi I In Y and Re. Conjugates of the antibody and cytotoxic agent are made using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such as N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithiol propionate SPDP iminothiolane IT bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters such as dimethyl adipimidate HCl active esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate aldehydes such as glutaraldehyde bis azido compounds such as bis p azidobenzoyl hexanediamine bis diazonium derivatives such as bis p diazoniumbenzoyl ethylenediamine diisocyanates such as toluene 2 6 diisocyanate and bis active fluorine compounds such as 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene . For example a ricin immunotoxin can be prepared as described in Vitetta et al. Science 238 1098 1987 . Carbon 14 labeled 1 isothiocyanatobenzyl 3 methyldiethylene triaminepentaacetic acid MX DTPA is an exemplary chelating agent for conjugation of radionucleotide to the antibody. See WO94 11026.

Conjugates of an antibody and one or more small molecule toxins such as a calicheamicin maytansinoids dolostatins aurostatins a trichothecene and CC1065 and the derivatives of these toxins that have toxin activity are also contemplated herein.

In some embodiments the immunoconjugate comprises an antibody of the invention conjugated to one or more maytansinoid molecules.

Maytansinoids are mitototic inhibitors which act by inhibiting tubulin polymerization. Maytansine was first isolated from the east African shrub Maytenus serrata U.S. Pat. No. 3 896 111 . Subsequently it was discovered that certain microbes also produce maytansinoids such as maytansinol and C 3 maytansinol esters U.S. Pat. No. 4 151 042 . Synthetic maytansinol and derivatives and analogues thereof are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 137 230 4 248 870 4 256 746 4 260 608 4 265 814 4 294 757 4 307 016 4 308 268 4 308 269 4 309 428 4 313 946 4 315 929 4 317 821 4 322 348 4 331 598 4 361 650 4 364 866 4 424 219 4 450 254 4 362 663 and 4 371 533.

Maytansinoid drug moieties are attractive drug moieties in antibody drug conjugates because they are i relatively accessible to prepare by fermentation or chemical modification derivatization of fermentation products ii amenable to derivatization with functional groups suitable for conjugation through the non disulfide linkers to antibodies iii stable in plasma and iv effective against a variety of tumor cell lines.

Exemplary embodiments of maytansinoid drug moieities include DM1 DM3 and DM4. Immunoconjugates containing maytansinoids methods of making same and their therapeutic use are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 208 020 5 416 064 and European Patent EP 0 425 235 B1 the disclosures of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference. Liu et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93 8618 8623 1996 described immunoconjugates comprising a maytansinoid designated DM1 linked to the monoclonal antibody C242 directed against human colorectal cancer. The conjugate was found to be highly cytotoxic towards cultured colon cancer cells and showed antitumor activity in an in vivo tumor growth assay. Chari et al. Cancer Research 52 127 131 1992 describe immunoconjugates in which a maytansinoid was conjugated via a disulfide linker to the murine antibody A7 binding to an antigen on human colon cancer cell lines or to another murine monoclonal antibody TA.1 that binds the HER 2 neu oncogene. The cytotoxicity of the TA.1 maytansonoid conjugate was tested in vitro on the human breast cancer cell line SK BR 3 which expresses 3 10HER 2 surface antigens per cell. The drug conjugate achieved a degree of cytotoxicity similar to the free maytansinoid drug which could be increased by increasing the number of maytansinoid molecules per antibody molecule. The A7 maytansinoid conjugate showed low systemic cytotoxicity in mice.

Antibody maytansinoid conjugates can be prepared by chemically linking an antibody to a maytansinoid molecule without significantly diminishing the biological activity of either the antibody or the maytansinoid molecule. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 208 020 the disclosure of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference . An average of 3 4 maytansinoid molecules conjugated per antibody molecule has shown efficacy in enhancing cytotoxicity of target cells without negatively affecting the function or solubility of the antibody although even one molecule of toxin antibody would be expected to enhance cytotoxicity over the use of naked antibody. Maytansinoids are well known in the art and can be synthesized by known techniques or isolated from natural sources. Suitable maytansinoids are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 208 020 and in the other patents and nonpatent publications referred to hereinabove. Preferred maytansinoids are maytansinol and maytansinol analogues modified in the aromatic ring or at other positions of the maytansinol molecule such as various maytansinol esters.

There are many linking groups known in the art for making antibody maytansinoid conjugates including for example those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 208 020 or EP Patent 0 425 235 B1 Chari et al. Cancer Research 52 127 131 1992 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 960 602 filed Oct. 8 2004 the disclosures of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference. Antibody maytansinoid conjugates comprising the linker component SMCC may be prepared as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 960 602 filed Oct. 8 2004. The linking groups include disulfide groups thioether groups acid labile groups photolabile groups peptidase labile groups or esterase labile groups as disclosed in the above identified patents disulfide and thioether groups being preferred. Additional linking groups are described and exemplified herein.

Conjugates of the antibody and maytansinoid may be made using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such as N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC iminothiolane IT bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters such as dimethyl adipimidate HCl active esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate aldehydes such as glutaraldehyde bis azido compounds such as bis p azidobenzoyl hexanediamine bis diazonium derivatives such as bis p diazoniumbenzoyl ethylenediamine diisocyanates such as toluene 2 6 diisocyanate and bis active fluorine compounds such as 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene . Particularly preferred coupling agents include N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP Carlsson et al. Biochem. J. 173 723 737 1978 and N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridylthio pentanoate SPP to provide for a disulfide linkage.

The linker may be attached to the maytansinoid molecule at various positions depending on the type of the link. For example an ester linkage may be formed by reaction with a hydroxyl group using conventional coupling techniques. The reaction may occur at the C 3 position having a hydroxyl group the C 14 position modified with hydroxymethyl the C 15 position modified with a hydroxyl group and the C 20 position having a hydroxyl group. In a preferred embodiment the linkage is formed at the C 3 position of maytansinol or a maytansinol analogue.

In some embodiments the immunoconjugate comprises an antibody of the invention conjugated to dolastatins or dolostatin peptidic analogs and derivatives the auristatins U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 635 483 5 780 588 . Dolastatins and auristatins have been shown to interfere with microtubule dynamics GTP hydrolysis and nuclear and cellular division Woyke et al 2001 Antimicrob. Agents and Chemother. 45 12 3580 3584 and have anticancer U.S. Pat. No. 5 663 149 and antifungal activity Pettit et al 1998 Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 42 2961 2965 . The dolastatin or auristatin drug moiety may be attached to the antibody through the N amino terminus or the C carboxyl terminus of the peptidic drug moiety WO 02 088172 .

Exemplary auristatin embodiments include the N terminus linked monomethylauristatin drug moieties DE and DF disclosed in Monomethylvaline Compounds Capable of Conjugation to Ligands U.S. Ser. No. 10 983 340 filed Nov. 5 2004 the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety.

An exemplary auristatin embodiments are MMAE and MMAF. Additional exemplary embodiments comprising MMAE or MMAF and various linker components described further herein Ab MC vc PAB MMAF Ab MC vc PAB MMAE Ab MC MMAE and Ab MC MMAF.

Typically peptide based drug moieties can be prepared by forming a peptide bond between two or more amino acids and or peptide fragments. Such peptide bonds can be prepared for example according to the liquid phase synthesis method see E. Schroder and K. L bke The Peptides volume 1 pp 76 136 1965 Academic Press that is well known in the field of peptide chemistry. The auristatin dolastatin drug moieties may be prepared according to the methods of U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 635 483 5 780 588 Pettit et al 1989 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 111 5463 5465 Pettit et al 1998 Anti Cancer Drug Design 13 243 277 Pettit G. R. et al. Synthesis 1996 719 725 and Pettit et al 1996 J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. 15 859 863. See also Doronina 2003 Nat Biotechnol 21 7 778 784 Monomethylvaline Compounds Capable of Conjugation to Ligands U.S. Ser. No. 10 983 340 filed Nov. 5 2004 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety disclosing e.g. linkers and methods of preparing monomethylvaline compounds such as MMAE and MMAF conjugated to linkers .

In other embodiments the immunoconjugate comprises an antibody of the invention conjugated to one or more calicheamicin molecules. The calicheamicin family of antibiotics are capable of producing double stranded DNA breaks at sub picomolar concentrations. For the preparation of conjugates of the calicheamicin family see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 712 374 5 714 586 5 739 116 5 767 285 5 770 701 5 770 710 5 773 001 5 877 296 all to American Cyanamid Company . Structural analogues of calicheamicin which may be used include but are not limited to N acetyl PSAG and Hinman et al. Cancer Research 53 3336 3342 1993 Lode et al. Cancer Research 58 2925 2928 1998 and the aforementioned U.S. patents to American Cyanamid . Another anti tumor drug that the antibody can be conjugated is QFA which is an antifolate. Both calicheamicin and QFA have intracellular sites of action and do not readily cross the plasma membrane. Therefore cellular uptake of these agents through antibody mediated internalization greatly enhances their cytotoxic effects.

Other antitumor agents that can be conjugated to the antibodies of the invention include BCNU streptozoicin vincristine and 5 fluorouracil the family of agents known collectively LL E33288 complex described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 053 394 5 770 710 as well as esperamicins U.S. Pat. No. 5 877 296 .

Enzymatically active toxins and fragments thereof which can be used include diphtheria A chain nonbinding active fragments of diphtheria toxin exotoxin A chain from ricin A chain abrin A chain modeccin A chain alpha sarcin Aleurites fordii proteins dianthin proteins Phytolaca americana proteins PAPI PAPII and PAP S inhibitor curcin crotin sapaonaria officinalis inhibitor gelonin mitogellin restrictocin phenomycin enomycin and the tricothecenes. See for example WO 93 21232 published Oct. 28 1993.

The present invention further contemplates an immunoconjugate formed between an antibody and a compound with nucleolytic activity e.g. a ribonuclease or a DNA endonuclease such as a deoxyribonuclease DNase .

For selective destruction of the tumor the antibody may comprise a highly radioactive atom. A variety of radioactive isotopes are available for the production of radioconjugated antibodies. Examples include At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi P Pband radioactive isotopes of Lu. When the conjugate is used for detection it may comprise a radioactive atom for scintigraphic studies for example tcor I or a spin label for nuclear magnetic resonance NMR imaging also known as magnetic resonance imaging mri such as iodine 123 again iodine 131 indium 111 fluorine 19 carbon 13 nitrogen 15 oxygen 17 gadolinium manganese or iron.

The radio or other labels may be incorporated in the conjugate in known ways. For example the peptide may be biosynthesized or may be synthesized by chemical amino acid synthesis using suitable amino acid precursors involving for example fluorine 19 in place of hydrogen. Labels such as tcor I Re Reand Incan be attached via a cysteine residue in the peptide. Yttrium 90 can be attached via a lysine residue. The IODOGEN method Fraker et al 1978 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 80 49 57 can be used to incorporate iodine 123. Monoclonal Antibodies in Immunoscintigraphy Chatal CRC Press 1989 describes other methods in detail.

Conjugates of the antibody and cytotoxic agent may be made using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such as N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithio propionate SPDP succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC iminothiolane IT bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters such as dimethyl adipimidate HCl active esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate aldehydes such as glutaraldehyde bis azido compounds such as bis p azidobenzoyl hexanediamine bis diazonium derivatives such as bis p diazoniumbenzoyl ethylenediamine diisocyanates such as toluene 2 6 diisocyanate and bis active fluorine compounds such as 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene . For example a ricin immunotoxin can be prepared as described in Vitetta et al. Science 238 1098 1987 . Carbon 14 labeled 1 isothiocyanatobenzyl 3 methyldiethylene triaminepentaacetic acid MX DTPA is an exemplary chelating agent for conjugation of radionucleotide to the antibody. See WO94 11026. The linker may be a cleavable linker facilitating release of the cytotoxic drug in the cell. For example an acid labile linker peptidase sensitive linker photolabile linker dimethyl linker or disulfide containing linker Chari et al. Cancer Research 52 127 131 1992 U.S. Pat. No. 5 208 020 may be used.

The compounds of the invention expressly contemplate but are not limited to ADC prepared with cross linker reagents BMPS EMCS GMBS HBVS LC SMCC MBS MPBH SBAP SIA SIAB SMCC SMPB SMPH sulfo EMCS sulfo GMBS sulfo KMUS sulfo MBS sulfo SIAB sulfo SMCC and sulfo SMPB and SVSB succinimidyl 4 vinylsulfone benzoate which are commercially available e.g. from Pierce Biotechnology Inc. Rockford Ill. U.S.A . See pages 467 498 2003 2004 Applications Handbook and Catalog.

In the antibody drug conjugates ADC of the invention an antibody Ab is conjugated to one or more drug moieties D e.g. about 1 to about 20 drug moieties per antibody through a linker L . The ADC of Formula I may be prepared by several routes employing organic chemistry reactions conditions and reagents known to those skilled in the art including 1 reaction of a nucleophilic group of an antibody with a bivalent linker reagent to form Ab L via a covalent bond followed by reaction with a drug moiety D and 2 reaction of a nucleophilic group of a drug moiety with a bivalent linker reagent to form D L via a covalent bond followed by reaction with the nucleophilic group of an antibody. Additional methods for preparing ADC are described herein. Ab L D I

The linker may be composed of one or more linker components. Exemplary linker components include 6 maleimidocaproyl MC maleimidopropanoyl MP valine citrulline val cit alanine phenylalanine ala phe p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl PAB N Succinimidyl 4 2 pyridylthio pentanoate SPP N Succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC and N Succinimidyl 4 iodo acetyl aminobenzoate SIAB . Additional linker components are known in the art and some are described herein. See also Monomethylvaline Compounds Capable of Conjugation to Ligands U.S. Ser. No. 10 983 340 filed Nov. 5 2004 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the linker may comprise amino acid residues. Exemplary amino acid linker components include a dipeptide a tripeptide a tetrapeptide or a pentapeptide. Exemplary dipeptides include valine citrulline vc or val cit alanine phenylalanine af or ala phe . Exemplary tripeptides include glycine valine citrulline gly val cit and glycine glycine glycine gly gly gly . Amino acid residues which comprise an amino acid linker component include those occurring naturally as well as minor amino acids and non naturally occurring amino acid analogs such as citrulline. Amino acid linker components can be designed and optimized in their selectivity for enzymatic cleavage by a particular enzymes for example a tumor associated protease cathepsin B C and D or a plasmin protease.

Exemplary linker component structures are shown below wherein the wavy line indicates sites of covalent attachment to other components of the ADC 

Additional exemplary linker components and abbreviations include wherein the antibody Ab and linker are depicted and p is 1 to about 8 

Nucleophilic groups on antibodies include but are not limited to i N terminal amine groups ii side chain amine groups e.g. lysine iii side chain thiol groups e.g. cysteine and iv sugar hydroxyl or amino groups where the antibody is glycosylated. Amine thiol and hydroxyl groups are nucleophilic and capable of reacting to form covalent bonds with electrophilic groups on linker moieties and linker reagents including i active esters such as NHS esters HOBt esters haloformates and acid halides ii alkyl and benzyl halides such as haloacetamides iii aldehydes ketones carboxyl and maleimide groups. Certain antibodies have reducible interchain disulfides i.e. cysteine bridges. Antibodies may be made reactive for conjugation with linker reagents by treatment with a reducing agent such as DTT dithiothreitol . Each cysteine bridge will thus form theoretically two reactive thiol nucleophiles. Additional nucleophilic groups can be introduced into antibodies through the reaction of lysines with 2 iminothiolane Traut s reagent resulting in conversion of an amine into a thiol. Reactive thiol groups may be introduced into the antibody or fragment thereof by introducing one two three four or more cysteine residues e.g. preparing mutant antibodies comprising one or more non native cysteine amino acid residues .

Antibody drug conjugates of the invention may also be produced by modification of the antibody to introduce electrophilic moieties which can react with nucleophilic subsituents on the linker reagent or drug. The sugars of glycosylated antibodies may be oxidized e.g. with periodate oxidizing reagents to form aldehyde or ketone groups which may react with the amine group of linker reagents or drug moieties. The resulting imine Schiff base groups may form a stable linkage or may be reduced e.g. by borohydride reagents to form stable amine linkages. In one embodiment reaction of the carbohydrate portion of a glycosylated antibody with either glactose oxidase or sodium meta periodate may yield carbonyl aldehyde and ketone groups in the protein that can react with appropriate groups on the drug Hermanson Bioconjugate Techniques . In another embodiment proteins containing N terminal serine or threonine residues can react with sodium meta periodate resulting in production of an aldehyde in place of the first amino acid Geoghegan Stroh 1992 Bioconjugate Chem. 3 138 146 U.S. Pat. No. 5 362 852 . Such aldehyde can be reacted with a drug moiety or linker nucleophile.

Likewise nucleophilic groups on a drug moiety include but are not limited to amine thiol hydroxyl hydrazide oxime hydrazine thiosemicarbazone hydrazine carboxylate and arylhydrazide groups capable of reacting to form covalent bonds with electrophilic groups on linker moieties and linker reagents including i active esters such as NHS esters HOBt esters haloformates and acid halides ii alkyl and benzyl halides such as haloacetamides iii aldehydes ketones carboxyl and maleimide groups.

Alternatively a fusion protein comprising the antibody and cytotoxic agent may be made e.g. by recombinant techniques or peptide synthesis. The length of DNA may comprise respective regions encoding the two portions of the conjugate either adjacent one another or separated by a region encoding a linker peptide which does not destroy the desired properties of the conjugate.

In yet another embodiment the antibody may be conjugated to a receptor such streptavidin for utilization in tumor pre targeting wherein the antibody receptor conjugate is administered to the patient followed by removal of unbound conjugate from the circulation using a clearing agent and then administration of a ligand e.g. avidin which is conjugated to a cytotoxic agent e.g. a radionucleotide .

Antibody Ab MC MMAE may be prepared by conjugation of any of the antibodies provided herein with MC MMAE as follows. Antibody dissolved in 500 mM sodium borate and 500 mM sodium chloride at pH 8.0 is treated with an excess of 100 mM dithiothreitol DTT . After incubation at 37 C. for about 30 minutes the buffer is exchanged by elution over Sephadex G25 resin and eluted with PBS with 1 mM DTPA. The thiol Ab value is checked by determining the reduced antibody concentration from the absorbance at 280 nm of the solution and the thiol concentration by reaction with DTNB Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. and determination of the absorbance at 412 nm. The reduced antibody dissolved in PBS is chilled on ice. The drug linker reagent maleimidocaproyl monomethyl auristatin E MMAE i.e. MC MMAE dissolved in DMSO is diluted in acetonitrile and water at known concentration and added to the chilled reduced antibody 2H9 in PBS. After about one hour an excess of maleimide is added to quench the reaction and cap any unreacted antibody thiol groups. The reaction mixture is concentrated by centrifugal ultrafiltration and 2H9 MC MMAE is purified and desalted by elution through G25 resin in PBS filtered through 0.2 m filters under sterile conditions and frozen for storage.

Antibody MC MMAF may be prepared by conjugation of any of the antibodies provided herein with MC MMAF following the protocol provided for preparation of Ab MC MMAE.

Antibody MC val cit PAB MMAE is prepared by conjugation of any of the antibodies provided herein with MC val cit PAB MMAE following the protocol provided for preparation of Ab MC MMAE.

Antibody MC val cit PAB MMAF is prepared by conjugation of any of the antibodies provided herein with MC val cit PAB MMAF following the protocol provided for preparation of Ab MC MMAE.

Antibody SMCC DM1 is prepared by conjugation of any of the antibodies provided herein with SMCC DM1 as follows. Purified antibody is derivatized with Succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate SMCC Pierce Biotechnology Inc to introduce the SMCC linker. Specifically antibody is treated at 20 mg mL in 50 mM potassium phosphate 50 mM sodium chloride 2 mM EDTA pH 6.5 with 7.5 molar equivalents of SMCC 20 mM in DMSO 6.7 mg mL . After stirring for 2 hours under argon at ambient temperature the reaction mixture is filtered through a Sephadex G25 column equilibrated with 50 mM potassium phosphate 50 mM sodium chloride 2 mM EDTA pH 6.5. Antibody containing fractions are pooled and assayed.

Antibody SMCC prepared thus is diluted with 50 mM potassium phosphate 50 mM sodium chloride 2 mM EDTA pH 6.5 to a final concentration of about 10 mg ml and reacted with a 10 mM solution of DM1 in dimethylacetamide. The reaction is stirred at ambient temperature under argon 16.5 hours. The conjugation reaction mixture is filtered through a Sephadex G25 gel filtration column 1.5 4.9 cm with 1 PBS at pH 6.5. The DM1 drug to antibody ratio p may be about 2 to 5 as measured by the absorbance at 252 nm and at 280 nm.

Ab SPP DM1 is prepared by conjugation of any of the antibodies provided herein with SPP DM1 as follows. Purified antibody is derivatized with N succinimidyl 4 2 pyridylthio pentanoate to introduce dithiopyridyl groups. Antibody 376.0 mg 8 mg mL in 44.7 mL of 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.5 containing NaCl 50 mM and EDTA 1 mM is treated with SPP 5.3 molar equivalents in 2.3 mL ethanol . After incubation for 90 minutes under argon at ambient temperature the reaction mixture is gel filtered through a ephadex G25 column equilibrated with 35 mM sodium citrate 154 mM NaCl 2 mM EDTA. Antibody containing fractions were pooled and assayed. The degree of modification of the antibody is determined as described above.

Antibody SPP Py about 10 moles of releasable 2 thiopyridine groups is diluted with the above 35 mM sodium citrate buffer pH 6.5 to a final concentration of about 2.5 mg mL. DM1 1.7 equivalents 17 moles in 3.0 mM dimethylacetamide DMA 3 v v in the final reaction mixture is then added to the antibody solution. The reaction proceeds at ambient temperature under argon for about 20 hours. The reaction is loaded on a Sephacryl S300 gel filtration column 5.0 cm 90.0 cm 1.77 L equilibrated with 35 mM sodium citrate 154 mM NaCl pH 6.5. The flow rate may be about 5.0 mL min and 65 fractions 20.0 mL each are collected. The number of DM1 drug molecules linked per antibody molecule p is determined by measuring the absorbance at 252 nm and 280 nm and may be about 2 to 4 DM1 drug moities per 2H9 antibody.

Antibody BMPEO DM1 is prepared by conjugation of any of the antibodies provided herein with BMPEO DM1 as follows. The antibody is modified by the bis maleimido reagent BM PEO 4 Pierce Chemical leaving an unreacted maleimido group on the surface of the antibody. This may be accomplished by dissolving BM PEO 4 in a 50 ethanol water mixture to a concentration of 10 mM and adding a tenfold molar excess to a solution containing antibody in phosphate buffered saline at a concentration of approximately 1.6 mg ml 10 micromolar and allowing it to react for 1 hour to form antibody linker intermediate 2H9 BMPEO. Excess BM PEO 4 is removed by gel filtration HiTrap column Pharmacia in 30 mM citrate pH 6 with 150 mM NaCl buffer. An approximate 10 fold molar excess DM1 is dissolved in dimethyl acetamide DMA and added to the 2H9 BMPEO intermediate. Dimethyl formamide DMF may also be employed to dissolve the drug moiety reagent. The reaction mixture is allowed to react overnight before gel filtration or dialysis into PBS to remove unreacted DM1. Gel filtration on S200 columns in PBS was used to remove high molecular weight aggregates and furnish purified 2H9 BMPEO DM1.

In one aspect a C met antagonist of the invention comprises a nucleic acid molecule. For example the nucleic acid molecule may comprise an antisense oligonucleotide an inhibitory interfering RNA e.g. a small inhibitory interfering RNA siRNA or an aptamer. Methods for screening for identifying and making these nucleic acid modulators are known in the art.

For example siRNAs have proven capable of modulating gene expression where traditional antagonists such as small molecules or antibodies have failed. Shi Y. 19 1 9 12 2003 . In vitro synthesized double stranded RNAs that are fewer than 30 nucleotides in length e.g. about 15 to 25 17 to 20 18 to 20 19 to 20 or 21 to 23 nucleotides can act as interfering RNAs iRNAs and can specifically inhibit gene expression see e.g. Fire A. Trends in Genetics 1999 391 806 810 U.S. Pat. appln. Ser. Nos. 09 821 832 09 215 257 U.S. Pat. No. 6 506 559 PCT US01 10188 European Appln. Ser. No. 00126325 . These iRNAs are believed to act at least in part by mediating degradation of their target RNAs. However since they are under 30 nuclotides in length they do not trigger a cell antiviral defense mechanism. Such mechanisms include interferon production and a general shutdown of host cell protein synthesis. Practically siRNAs can be synthesized and then cloned into DNA vectors. Such vectors can be transfected and made to express the siRNA at high levels. The high level of siRNA expression is used to knockdown or significantly reduce the amount of protein produced in a cell and thus it is useful in cellular settings where overexpression of a protein is believed to be linked to a pathological disorder.

Aptamers are nucleic acid molecules that are capable of binding to a target molecule such as a hyperstabilized c met protein. The generation and therapeutic use of aptamers are well established in the art. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 475 096 and the therapeutic efficacy of Macugen Eyetech New York for treating age related macular degeneration.

Anti sense technology is well established in the art. Further details regarding this technology are provided hereinbelow.

Therapeutic formulations of the C met antagonists used in accordance with the invention are prepared for storage by mixing the C met antagonist having the desired degree of purity with optional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 in the form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as acetate Tris phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA tonicifiers such as trehalose and sodium chloride sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol surfactant such as polysorbate salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG .

The formulations herein may also contain more than one active compound as necessary for the particular indication being treated preferably those with complementary activities that do not adversely affect each other. For example in addition to a C met antagonist it may be desirable to include in the one formulation an additional modulator e.g. a second antibody which binds a different epitope on the hyperstabilized c met protein or an antibody to some other target. Alternatively or additionally the composition may further comprise a chemotherapeutic agent cytotoxic agent cytokine growth inhibitory agent anti hormonal agent and or cardioprotectant. Such molecules are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended.

The active ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semi permeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the antibody which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

C met antagonists of the invention have various non therapeutic applications. The antagonists can be useful for staging or detecting hyperstabilized c met expressing diseases e.g. in radioimaging . The antibodies oligopeptides and aptamers can also be useful for purification or immunoprecipitation of hyperstabilized c met from cells for detection and quantitation of hyperstabilized c met in vitro e.g. in an ELISA or a Western blot and to modulate cellular events in a population of cells.

Currently depending on the stage of the cancer cancer treatment involves one or a combination of the following therapies surgery to remove the cancerous tissue radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Therapy comprising C met antagonists may be especially desirable in elderly patients who do not tolerate the toxicity and side effects of chemotherapy well and in metastatic disease where radiation therapy has limited usefulness. For therapeutic applications the C met antagonists can be used alone or in combination therapy with e.g. hormones antiangiogens or radiolabelled compounds or with surgery cryotherapy and or radiotherapy. The C met antagonists can be administered in conjunction with other forms of conventional therapy either consecutively with pre or post conventional therapy. Chemotherapeutic drugs such as TAXOTERE docetaxel TAXOL palictaxel estramustine and mitoxantrone are used in treating cancer in particular in good risk patients. The C met antagonists would generally be administered with a therapeutically effective dose of the chemotherapeutic agent. In another embodiment a C met antagonist is administered in conjunction with chemotherapy to reduce side effects reslting from the chemotherapeutic agent e.g. paclitaxel. The Physicians Desk Reference PDR discloses dosages of these agents that have been used in treatment of various cancers. The dosing regimen and dosages of these aforementioned chemotherapeutic drugs that are therapeutically effective will depend on the particular cancer being treated the extent of the disease and other factors familiar to the physician of skill in the art and can be determined by the physician.

The C met antagonists are administered to a human patient in accordance with known methods such as intravenous administration e.g. as a bolus or by continuous infusion over a period of time by intramuscular intraperitoneal intracerobrospinal subcutaneous intra articular intrasynovial intrathecal oral topical or inhalation routes. Intravenous or subcutaneous administration of the antibody oligopeptide or organic small molecule is preferred in one embodiment of the invention.

Other therapeutic regimens may be combined with the administration of the C met antagonist. The combined administration includes co administration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities. Preferably such combined therapy results in a synergistic therapeutic effect and or reduction of unwanted side effects.

It may also be desirable to combine administration of the C met antagonist with administration of a therapeutic agent directed against another antigen associated with the particular pathological condition.

In another embodiment the therapeutic treatment methods of the present invention involves the combined administration of a C met antagonist molecule and one or more chemotherapeutic agents or growth inhibitory agents including co administration of cocktails of different chemotherapeutic agents. Chemotherapeutic agents include estramustine phosphate prednimustine cisplatin 5 fluorouracil melphalan cyclophosphamide hydroxyurea and hydroxyureataxanes such as paclitaxel and doxetaxel and or anthracycline antibiotics. Preparation and dosing schedules for such chemotherapeutic agents may be used according to manufacturers instructions or as determined empirically by the skilled practitioner. Preparation and dosing schedules for such chemotherapy are also described in Chemotherapy Service Ed. M. C. Perry Williams Wilkins Baltimore Md. 1992 .

The C met antagonist may be combined with an anti hormonal compound e.g. an anti estrogen compound such as tamoxifen an anti progesterone such as onapristone see EP 616 812 or an anti androgen such as flutamide in dosages known for such molecules. Where the cancer to be treated is androgen independent cancer the patient may previously have been subjected to anti androgen therapy and after the cancer becomes androgen independent the C met antagonist may be administered to the patient.

Sometimes it may be beneficial to also co administer a cardioprotectant to prevent or reduce myocardial dysfunction associated with the therapy or one or more cytokines to the patient. In addition to the above therapeutic regimes the patient may be subjected to surgical removal of cancer cells and or radiation therapy before simultaneously with or post C met antagonist therapy. Suitable dosages for any of the above co administered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the agent and C met antagonist.

For the prevention or treatment of disease the dosage and mode of administration will be chosen by the physician according to known criteria. The appropriate dosage of C met antagonist will depend on the type of disease to be treated as defined above the severity and course of the disease whether the C met antagonist is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes previous therapy the patient s clinical history and response to the C met antagonist and the discretion of the attending physician. The C met antagonist is suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments. In one embodiment the C met antagonist is administered by intravenous infusion or by subcutaneous injections. Depending on the type and severity of the disease about 1 g kg to about 50 mg kg body weight e.g. about 0.1 15 mg kg dose of antibody can be an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient whether for example by one or more separate administrations or by continuous infusion. A dosing regimen can comprise administering an initial loading dose of about 4 mg kg followed by a weekly maintenance dose of about 2 mg kg of the C met antagonist antibody. However other dosage regimens may be useful. A typical daily dosage might range from about 1 g kg to 100 mg kg or more depending on the factors mentioned above. For repeated administrations over several days or longer depending on the condition the treatment is sustained until a desired suppression of disease symptoms occurs. The progress of this therapy can be readily monitored by conventional methods and assays and based on criteria known to the physician or other persons of skill in the art.

Aside from administration of a polypeptide modulator e.g. polypeptide antibody etc. to the patient the invention contemplates administration of a modulator by gene therapy. Such administration of nucleic acid comprising encoding the C met antagonist is encompassed by the expression administering a therapeutically effective amount of a C met antagonist . See for example WO96 07321 published Mar. 14 1996 concerning the use of gene therapy to generate intracellular antibodies.

There are two major approaches to getting the nucleic acid optionally contained in a vector into the patient s cells in vivo and ex vivo. For in vivo delivery the nucleic acid is injected directly into the patient usually at the site where the C met antagonist is required. For ex vivo treatment the patient s cells are removed the nucleic acid is introduced into these isolated cells and the modified cells are administered to the patient either directly or for example encapsulated within porous membranes which are implanted into the patient see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 892 538 and 5 283 187 . There are a variety of techniques available for introducing nucleic acids into viable cells. The techniques vary depending upon whether the nucleic acid is transferred into cultured cells in vitro or in vivo in the cells of the intended host. Techniques suitable for the transfer of nucleic acid into mammalian cells in vitro include the use of liposomes electroporation microinjection cell fusion DEAE dextran the calcium phosphate precipitation method etc. A commonly used vector for ex vivo delivery of the gene is a retroviral vector.

In one embodiment in vivo nucleic acid transfer techniques include transfection with viral vectors such as adenovirus Herpes simplex I virus or adeno associated virus and lipid based systems useful lipids for lipid mediated transfer of the gene are DOTMA DOPE and DC Chol for example . For review of the currently known gene marking and gene therapy protocols see Anderson et al. 256 808 813 1992 . See also WO 93 25673 and the references cited therein.

C met antagonist antibodies of the invention can be in the different forms encompassed by the definition of antibody herein. Thus the antibodies include full length or intact antibody antibody fragments native sequence antibody or amino acid variants humanized chimeric or fusion antibodies and functional fragments thereof.

The invention provides a composition comprising a C met antagonist and a carrier. In a further embodiment a composition can comprise a C met antagonist in combination with other therapeutic agents such as cytotoxic or growth inhibitory agents including chemotherapeutic agents. The invention also provides formulations comprising a C met antagonist and a carrier. In one embodiment the formulation is a therapeutic formulation comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another embodiment of the invention is an article of manufacture containing materials useful for the treatment of a disorder using a C met antagonist. The article of manufacture comprises a container and a label or package insert on or associated with the container. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes etc. The containers may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container holds a composition which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a C met antagonist of the invention. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating a particular disorder. The label or package insert will further comprise instructions for administering the composition to the patient. Additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

Kits are also provided that are useful for various purposes. Kits can be provided which contain C met antagonists of the invention for detection and quantitation of hyperstabilized c met in vitro e.g. in an ELISA or a Western blot. As with the article of manufacture the kit comprises a container and a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The container holds a composition comprising at least one C met antagonist of the invention. Additional containers may be included that contain e.g. diluents and buffers control antibodies. The label or package insert may provide a description of the composition as well as instructions for the intended in vitro or detection use.

H. C met Antagonists Comprising Polypeptides Nucleic Acids and Antibodies Specific Forms and Applications

In one embodiment nucleic acids of the invention include antisense oligonucleotides polynucleotides comprising a singe stranded nucleic acid sequence either RNA or DNA capable of binding to endogenous hyperstabilized c met encoding nucleic acids. Antisense oligonucleotides according to the present invention comprise at least a fragment of the coding region of hyperstabilized c met DNA. Such a fragment generally comprises at least about 14 nucleotides preferably from about 14 to 30 nucleotides. The ability to derive an antisense oligonucleotide based upon a cDNA sequence encoding a given protein is described in for example Stein and Cohen 48 2659 1988 and van der Krol et al. 6 958 1988 .

Binding of antisense oligonucleotides to target nucleic acid sequences results in the formation of duplexes that block transcription or translation of the target sequence by one of several means including enhanced degradation of the duplexes premature termination of transcription or translation or by other means. Such methods are encompassed by the present invention. The antisense oligonucleotides thus may be used to block expression of a hyperstabilized c met protein in cells. Antisense oligonucleotides further comprise oligonucleotides having modified sugar phosphodiester backbones or other sugar linkages such as those described in WO 91 06629 and wherein such sugar linkages are resistant to endogenous nucleases. Such oligonucleotides with resistant sugar linkages are stable in vivo i.e. capable of resisting enzymatic degradation but retain sequence specificity to be able to bind to target nucleotide sequences.

Preferred intragenic sites for antisense binding include the region incorporating the translation initiation start codon 5 AUG 5 ATG or termination stop codon 5 UAA 5 UAG and 5 UGA 5 TAA 5 TAG and 5 TGA of the open reading frame ORF of the gene. These regions refer to a portion of the mRNA or gene that encompasses from about 25 to about 50 contiguous nucleotides in either direction i.e. 5 or 3 from a translation initiation or termination codon. Other exemplary regions for antisense binding include introns exons intron exon junctions the open reading frame ORF or coding region which is the region between the translation initiation codon and the translation termination codon the 5 cap of an mRNA which comprises an N7 methylated guanosine residue joined to the 5 most residue of the mRNA via a 5 5 triphosphate linkage and includes 5 cap structure itself as well as the first 50 nucleotides adjacent to the cap the 5 untranslated region 5 UTR the portion of an mRNA in the 5 direction from the translation initiation codon and thus including nucleotides between the 5 cap site and the translation initiation codon of an mRNA or corresponding nucleotides on the gene and the 3 untranslated region 3 UTR the portion of an mRNA in the 3 direction from the translation termination codon and thus including nucleotides between the translation termination codon and 3 end of an mRNA or corresponding nucleotides on the gene.

Specific examples of antisense compounds useful for inhibiting expression of hyperstabilized c met polypeptide include oligonucleotides containing modified backbones or non natural internucleoside linkages. Oligonucleotides having modified backbones include those that retain a phosphorus atom in the backbone and those that do not have a phosphorus atom in the backbone. For the purposes of this specification and as sometimes referenced in the art modified oligonucleotides that do not have a phosphorus atom in their internucleoside backbone can also be considered to be oligonucleosides. Exemplary modified oligonucleotide backbones include for example phosphorothioates chiral phosphorothioates phosphorodithioates phosphotriesters aminoalkylphosphotri esters methyl and other alkyl phosphonates including 3 alkylene phosphonates 5 alkylene phosphonates and chiral phosphonates phosphinates phosphoramidates including 3 amino phosphoramidate and aminoalkylphosphoramidates thionophosphoramidates thionoalkylphosphonates thionoalkylphosphotriesters selenophosphates and borano phosphates having normal 3 5 linkages 2 5 linked analogs of these and those having inverted polarity wherein one or more internucleotide linkages is a 3 to 3 5 to 5 or 2 to 2 linkage. Exemplary oligonucleotides having inverted polarity comprise a single 3 to 3 linkage at the 3 most internucleotide linkage i.e. a single inverted nucleoside residue which may be abasic the nucleobase is missing or has a hydroxyl group in place thereof . Various salts mixed salts and free acid forms are also included. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of phosphorus containing linkages include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 687 808 4 469 863 4 476 301 5 023 243 5 177 196 5 188 897 5 264 423 5 276 019 5 278 302 5 286 717 5 321 131 5 399 676 5 405 939 5 453 496 5 455 233 5 466 677 5 476 925 5 519 126 5 536 821 5 541 306 5 550 111 5 563 253 5 571 799 5 587 361 5 194 599 5 565 555 5 527 899 5 721 218 5 672 697 and 5 625 050 each of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Examples of modified oligonucleotide backbones that do not include a phosphorus atom therein have backbones that are formed by short chain alkyl or cycloalkyl internucleoside linkages mixed heteroatom and alkyl or cycloalkyl internucleoside linkages or one or more short chain heteroatomic or heterocyclic internucleoside linkages. These include those having morpholino linkages formed in part from the sugar portion of a nucleoside siloxane backbones sulfide sulfoxide and sulfone backbones formacetyl and thioformacetyl backbones methylene formacetyl and thioformacetyl backbones riboacetyl backbones alkene containing backbones sulfamate backbones methyleneimino and methylenehydrazino backbones sulfonate and sulfonamide backbones amide backbones and others having mixed N O S and CHcomponent parts. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of such oligonucleosides include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 034 506 5 166 315 5 185 444 5 214 134 5 216 141 5 235 033 5 264 562 5 264 564 5 405 938 5 434 257 5 466 677 5 470 967 5 489 677 5 541 307 5 561 225 5 596 086 5 602 240 5 610 289 5 602 240 5 608 046 5 610 289 5 618 704 5 623 070 5 663 312 5 633 360 5 677 437 5 792 608 5 646 269 and 5 677 439 each of which is herein incorporated by reference.

In other examples of antisense oligonucleotides both the sugar and the internucleoside linkage i.e. the backbone of the nucleotide units are replaced with novel groups. The base units are maintained for hybridization with an appropriate nucleic acid target compound. One such oligomeric compound an oligonucleotide mimetic that has been shown to have excellent hybridization properties is referred to as a peptide nucleic acid PNA . In PNA compounds the sugar backbone of an oligonucleotide is replaced with an amide containing backbone in particular an aminoethylglycine backbone. The nucleobases are retained and are bound directly or indirectly to aza nitrogen atoms of the amide portion of the backbone. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of PNA compounds include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 539 082 5 714 331 and 5 719 262 each of which is herein incorporated by reference. Further teaching of PNA compounds can be found in Nielsen et al. Science 1991 254 1497 1500.

Examples of antisense oligonucleotides incorporate phosphorothioate backbones and or heteroatom backbones and in particular CH NH O CH CH N CH O CH known as a methylene methylimino or MMI backbone CH O N CH CH CH N CH N CH CH and O N CH CH CH wherein the native phosphodiester backbone is represented as O P O CH described in the above referenced U.S. Pat. No. 5 489 677 and the amide backbones of the above referenced U.S. Pat. No. 5 602 240. Additional examples are antisense oligonucleotides having morpholino backbone structures of the above referenced U.S. Pat. No. 5 034 506.

Modified oligonucleotides may also contain one or more substituted sugar moieties. Exemplary oligonucleotides comprise one of the following at the 2 position OH F O alkyl S alkyl or N alkyl O alkenyl S alkeynyl or N alkenyl O alkynyl S alkynyl or N alkynyl or O alkyl O alkyl wherein the alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl may be substituted or unsubstituted Cto Calkyl or Cto Calkenyl and alkynyl. Particularly preferred are O CH O CH O CH OCH O CH NH O CH CH O CH ONH and O CH ON CH CH where n and m are from 1 to about 10. Other exemplary antisense oligonucleotides comprise one of the following at the 2 position Cto Clower alkyl substituted lower alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkaryl aralkyl O alkaryl or O aralkyl SH SCH OCN Cl Br CN CF OCF SOCH SOCH ONO NO N NH heterocycloalkyl heterocycloalkaryl aminoalkylamino polyalkylamino substituted silyl an RNA cleaving group a reporter group an intercalator a group for improving the pharmacokinetic properties of an oligonucleotide or a group for improving the pharmacodynamic properties of an oligonucleotide and other substituents having similar properties. One possible modification includes 2 methoxyethoxy 2 O CHCHOCH also known as 2 O 2 methoxyethyl or 2 MOE Martin et al. Helv. Chim. Acta 1995 78 486 504 i.e. an alkoxyalkoxy group. A further preferred modification includes 2 dimethylaminooxyethoxy i.e. a O CH ON CH group also known as 2 DMAOE and 2 dimethylaminoethoxyethoxy also known in the art as 2 O dimethylaminoethoxyethyl or 2 DMAEOE i.e. 2 O CH O CH N CH .

A further modification includes Locked Nucleic Acids LNAs in which the 2 hydroxyl group is linked to the 3 or 4 carbon atom of the sugar ring thereby forming a bicyclic sugar moiety. The linkage can be a methelyne CH group bridging the 2 oxygen atom and the 4 carbon atom wherein n is 1 or 2. LNAs and preparation thereof are described in WO 98 39352 and WO 99 14226.

Other modifications include 2 methoxy 2 O CH 2 aminopropoxy 2 OCHCHCHNH 2 allyl 2 CH CH CH 2 O allyl 2 O CH CH CH and 2 fluoro 2 F . The 2 modification may be in the arabino up position or ribo down position. One 2 arabino modification is 2 F. Similar modifications may also be made at other positions on the oligonucleotide particularly the 3 position of the sugar on the 3 terminal nucleotide or in 2 5 linked oligonucleotides and the 5 position of 5 terminal nucleotide. Oligonucleotides may also have sugar mimetics such as cyclobutyl moieties in place of the pentofuranosyl sugar. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of such modified sugar structures include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 981 957 5 118 800 5 319 080 5 359 044 5 393 878 5 446 137 5 466 786 5 514 785 5 519 134 5 567 811 5 576 427 5 591 722 5 597 909 5 610 300 5 627 053 5 639 873 5 646 265 5 658 873 5 670 633 5 792 747 and 5 700 920 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Oligonucleotides may also include nucleobase often referred to in the art simply as base modifications or substitutions. As used herein unmodified or natural nucleobases include the purine bases adenine A and guanine G and the pyrimidine bases thymine T cytosine C and uracil U . Modified nucleobases include other synthetic and natural nucleobases such as 5 methylcytosine 5 me C 5 hydroxymethyl cytosine xanthine hypoxanthine 2 aminoadenine 6 methyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine 2 propyl and other alkyl derivatives of adenine and guanine 2 thiouracil 2 thiothymine and 2 thiocytosine 5 halouracil and cytosine 5 propynyl C C CHor CH C CH uracil and cytosine and other alkynyl derivatives of pyrimidine bases 6 azo uracil cytosine and thymine 5 uracil pseudouracil 4 thiouracil 8 halo 8 amino 8 thiol 8 thioalkyl 8 hydroxyl and other 8 substituted adenines and guanines 5 halo particularly 5 bromo 5 trifluoromethyl and other 5 substituted uracils and cytosines 7 methylguanine and 7 methyladenine 2 F adenine 2 amino adenine 8 azaguanine and 8 azaadenine 7 deazaguanine and 7 deazaadenine and 3 deazaguanine and 3 deazaadenine. Further modified nucleobases include tricyclic pyrimidines such as phenoxazine cytidine 1H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 benzoxazin 2 3H one phenothiazine cytidine 1H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 benzothiazin 2 3H one G clamps such as a substituted phenoxazine cytidine e.g. 9 2 aminoethoxy H pyrimido 5 4 b 1 4 benzoxazin 2 3H one carbazole cytidine 2H pyrimido 4 5 b indol 2 one pyridoindole cytidine H pyrido 3 2 4 5 pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 2 one . Modified nucleobases may also include those in which the purine or pyrimidine base is replaced with other heterocycles for example 7 deaza adenine 7 deazaguanosine 2 aminopyridine and 2 pyridone. Further nucleobases include those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 687 808 those disclosed in The Concise Encyclopedia Of Polymer Science And Engineering pages 858 859 Kroschwitz J. I. ed. John Wiley Sons 1990 and those disclosed by Englisch et al. Angewandte Chemie International Edition 1991 30 613. Certain of these nucleobases are particularly useful for increasing the binding affinity of the oligomeric compounds of the invention. These include 5 substituted pyrimidines 6 azapyrimidines and N 2 N 6 and 0 6 substituted purines including 2 aminopropyladenine 5 propynyluracil and 5 propynylcytosine. 5 methylcytosine substitutions have been shown to increase nucleic acid duplex stability by 0.6 1.2.degree. C. Sanghvi et al Antisense Research and Applications CRC Press Boca Raton 1993 pp. 276 278 and are exemplary base substitutions e.g. when combined with 2 O methoxyethyl sugar modifications. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of modified nucleobases include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. No. 3 687 808 as well as U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 845 205 5 130 302 5 134 066 5 175 273 5 367 066 5 432 272 5 457 187 5 459 255 5 484 908 5 502 177 5 525 711 5 552 540 5 587 469 5 594 121 5 596 091 5 614 617 5 645 985 5 830 653 5 763 588 6 005 096 5 681 941 and 5 750 692 each of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Another modification of antisense oligonucleotides comprises chemically linking to the oligonucleotide one or more moieties or conjugates which enhance the activity cellular distribution or cellular uptake of the oligonucleotide. The compounds of the invention can include conjugate groups covalently bound to functional groups such as primary or secondary hydroxyl groups. Conjugate groups of the invention include intercalators reporter molecules polyamines polyamides polyethylene glycols polyethers groups that enhance the pharmacodynamic properties of oligomers and groups that enhance the pharmacokinetic properties of oligomers. Typical conjugates groups include cholesterols lipids cation lipids phospholipids cationic phospholipids biotin phenazine folate phenanthridine anthraquinone acridine fluoresceins rhodamines coumarins and dyes. Groups that enhance the pharmacodynamic properties in the context of this invention include groups that improve oligomer uptake enhance oligomer resistance to degradation and or strengthen sequence specific hybridization with RNA. Groups that enhance the pharmacokinetic properties in the context of this invention include groups that improve oligomer uptake distribution metabolism or excretion. Conjugate moieties include but are not limited to lipid moieties such as a cholesterol moiety Letsinger et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1989 86 6553 6556 cholic acid Manoharan et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Let. 1994 4 1053 1060 a thioether e.g. hexyl 5 tritylthiol Manoharan et al. Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 1992 660 306 309 Manoharan et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Let. 1993 3 2765 2770 a thiocholesterol Oberhauser et al. Nucl. Acids Res. 1992 20 533 538 an aliphatic chain e.g. dodecandiol or undecyl residues Saison Behmoaras et al. EMBO J. 1991 10 1111 1118 Kabanov et al. FEBS Lett. 1990 259 327 330 Svinarchuk et al. Biochimie 1993 75 49 54 a phospholipid e.g. di hexadecyl rac glycerol or triethyl ammonium 1 2 di O hexadecyl rac glycero 3 H phosphonate Manoharan et al. Tetrahedron Lett. 1995 36 3651 3654 Shea et al. Nucl. Acids Res. 1990 18 3777 3783 a polyamine or a polyethylene glycol chain Manoharan et al. Nucleosides Nucleotides 1995 14 969 973 or adamantane acetic acid Manoharan et al. Tetrahedron Lett. 1995 36 3651 3654 a palmityl moiety Mishra et al. Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1995 1264 229 237 or an octadecylamine or hexylamino carbonyl oxycholesterol moiety. Oligonucleotides of the invention may also be conjugated to active drug substances for example aspirin warfarin phenylbutazone ibuprofen suprofen fenbufen ketoprofen S pranoprofen carprofen dansylsarcosine 2 3 5 triiodobenzoic acid flufenamic acid folinic acid a benzothiadiazide chlorothiazide a diazepine indomethicin a barbiturate a cephalosporin a sulfa drug an antidiabetic an antibacterial or an antibiotic. Oligonucleotide drug conjugates and their preparation are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 334 130 filed Jun. 15 1999 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 828 979 4 948 882 5 218 105 5 525 465 5 541 313 5 545 730 5 552 538 5 578 717 5 580 731 5 580 731 5 591 584 5 109 124 5 118 802 5 138 045 5 414 077 5 486 603 5 512 439 5 578 718 5 608 046 4 587 044 4 605 735 4 667 025 4 762 779 4 789 737 4 824 941 4 835 263 4 876 335 4 904 582 4 958 013 5 082 830 5 112 963 5 214 136 5 082 830 5 112 963 5 214 136 5 245 022 5 254 469 5 258 506 5 262 536 5 272 250 5 292 873 5 317 098 5 371 241 5 391 723 5 416 203 5 451 463 5 510 475 5 512 667 5 514 785 5 565 552 5 567 810 5 574 142 5 585 481 5 587 371 5 595 726 5 597 696 5 599 923 5 599 928 and 5 688 941 each of which is herein incorporated by reference.

It is not necessary for all positions in a given compound to be uniformly modified and in fact more than one of the aforementioned modifications may be incorporated in a single compound or even at a single nucleoside within an oligonucleotide. The present invention also includes antisense compounds which are chimeric compounds. Chimeric antisense compounds or chimeras in the context of this invention are antisense compounds particularly oligonucleotides which contain two or more chemically distinct regions each made up of at least one monomer unit i.e. a nucleotide in the case of an oligonucleotide compound. These oligonucleotides typically contain at least one region wherein the oligonucleotide is modified so as to confer upon the oligonucleotide increased resistance to nuclease degradation increased cellular uptake and or increased binding affinity for the target nucleic acid. An additional region of the oligonucleotide may serve as a substrate for enzymes capable of cleaving RNA DNA or RNA RNA hybrids. By way of example RNase H is a cellular endonuclease which cleaves the RNA strand of an RNA DNA duplex. Activation of RNase H therefore results in cleavage of the RNA target thereby greatly enhancing the efficiency of oligonucleotide inhibition of gene expression. Consequently comparable results can often be obtained with shorter oligonucleotides when chimeric oligonucleotides are used compared to phosphorothioate deoxyoligonucleotides hybridizing to the same target region. Chimeric antisense compounds of the invention may be formed as composite structures of two or more oligonucleotides modified oligonucleotides oligonucleosides and or oligonucleotide mimetics as described above. Exemplary chimeric antisense oligonucleotides incorporate at least one 2 modified sugar preferably 2 O CH O CH at the 3 terminal to confer nuclease resistance and a region with at least 4 contiguous 2 H sugars to confer RNase H activity. Such compounds have also been referred to in the art as hybrids or gapmers. Exemplary gapmers have a region of 2 modified sugars preferably 2 O CH O CH at the 3 terminal and at the 5 terminal separated by at least one region having at least 4 contiguous 2 H sugars and may incorporate phosphorothioate backbone linkages. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of such hybrid structures include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 013 830 5 149 797 5 220 007 5 256 775 5 366 878 5 403 711 5 491 133 5 565 350 5 623 065 5 652 355 5 652 356 and 5 700 922 each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The antisense compounds used in accordance with this invention may be conveniently and routinely made through the well known technique of solid phase synthesis. Equipment for such synthesis is sold by several vendors including for example Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . Any other means for such synthesis known in the art may additionally or alternatively be employed. It is well known to use similar techniques to prepare oligonucleotides such as the phosphorothioates and alkylated derivatives. The compounds of the invention may also be admixed encapsulated conjugated or otherwise associated with other molecules molecule structures or mixtures of compounds as for example liposomes receptor targeted molecules oral rectal topical or other formulations for assisting in uptake distribution and or absorption. Representative United States patents that teach the preparation of such uptake distribution and or absorption assisting formulations include but are not limited to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 108 921 5 354 844 5 416 016 5 459 127 5 521 291 5 543 158 5 547 932 5 583 020 5 591 721 4 426 330 4 534 899 5 013 556 5 108 921 5 213 804 5 227 170 5 264 221 5 356 633 5 395 619 5 416 016 5 417 978 5 462 854 5 469 854 5 512 295 5 527 528 5 534 259 5 543 152 5 556 948 5 580 575 and 5 595 756 each of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Other examples of antisense oligonucleotides include those oligonucleotides which are covalently linked to organic moieties such as those described in WO 90 10048 and other moieties that increases affinity of the oligonucleotide for a target nucleic acid sequence such as poly L lysine . Further still intercalating agents such as ellipticine and alkylating agents or metal complexes may be attached to sense or antisense oligonucleotides to modify binding specificities of the antisense or sense oligonucleotide for the target nucleotide sequence.

Antisense oligonucleotides may be introduced into a cell containing the target nucleic acid sequence by any gene transfer method including for example CaPO mediated DNA transfection electroporation or by using gene transfer vectors such as Epstein Barr virus. In an exemplary procedure an antisense or sense oligonucleotide is inserted into a suitable retroviral vector. A cell containing the target nucleic acid sequence is contacted with the recombinant retroviral vector either in vivo or ex vivo. Suitable retroviral vectors include but are not limited to those derived from the murine retrovirus M MuLV N2 a retrovirus derived from M MuLV or the double copy vectors designated DCT5A DCT5B and DCT5C see WO 90 13641 .

Antisense oligonucleotides also may be introduced into a cell containing the target nucleotide sequence by formation of a conjugate with a ligand binding molecule as described in WO 91 04753. Suitable ligand binding molecules include but are not limited to cell surface receptors growth factors other cytokines or other ligands that bind to cell surface receptors. In general conjugation of the ligand binding molecule preferably does not substantially interfere with the ability of the ligand binding molecule to bind to its corresponding molecule or receptor or block entry of the sense or antisense oligonucleotide or its conjugated version into the cell.

Alternatively an antisense oligonucleotide may be introduced into a cell containing the target nucleic acid sequence by formation of an oligonucleotide lipid complex as described in WO 90 10448. The antisense oligonucleotide lipid complex is preferably dissociated within the cell by an endogenous lipase.

Antisense RNA or DNA molecules are generally at least about 5 nucleotides in length alternatively at least about 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120 125 130 135 140 145 150 155 160 165 170 175 180 185 190 195 200 210 220 230 240 250 260 270 280 290 300 310 320 330 340 350 360 370 380 390 400 410 420 430 440 450 460 470 480 490 500 510 520 530 540 550 560 570 580 590 600 610 620 630 640 650 660 670 680 690 700 710 720 730 740 750 760 770 780 790 800 810 820 830 840 850 860 870 880 890 900 910 920 930 940 950 960 970 980 990 or 1000 nucleotides in length wherein in this context the term about means the referenced nucleotide sequence length plus or minus 10 of that referenced length.

Antisense RNAs and DNAs can be used as therapeutic agents for blocking the expression of certain genes in vivo. It has already been shown that short antisense oligonucleotides can be imported into cells where they act as inhibitors despite their low intracellular concentrations caused by their restricted uptake by the cell membrane. Zamecnik et al. 83 4143 4146 1986 . The oligonucleotides can be modified to enhance their uptake e.g. by substituting their negatively charged phosphodiester groups by uncharged groups.

There are a variety of techniques available for introducing nucleic acids into viable cells. The techniques vary depending upon whether the nucleic acid is transferred into cultured cells in vitro or in vivo in the cells of the intended host. Techniques suitable for the transfer of nucleic acid into mammalian cells in vitro include the use of liposomes electroporation microinjection cell fusion DEAE dextran the calcium phosphate precipitation method etc. The currently preferred in vivo gene transfer techniques include transfection with viral typically retroviral vectors and viral coat protein liposome mediated transfection Dzau et al. 11 205 210 1993 . In some situations it is desirable to provide the nucleic acid source with an agent that targets the target cells such as an antibody specific for a cell surface membrane protein or the target cell a ligand for a receptor on the target cell etc. Where liposomes are employed proteins which bind to a cell surface membrane protein associated with endocytosis may be used for targeting and or to facilitate uptake e.g. capsid proteins or fragments thereof tropic for a particular cell type antibodies for proteins which undergo internalization in cycling proteins that target intracellular localization and enhance intracellular half life. The technique of receptor mediated endocytosis is described for example by Wu et al. 262 4429 4432 1987 and Wagner et al. 87 3410 3414 1990 . For review of gene marking and gene therapy protocols see Anderson et al. 256 808 813 1992 .

C met antagonist polypeptides and nucleic acid molecules of the invention may be used diagnostically for tissue typing wherein hyperstabilized c met polypeptides may be differentially expressed in one tissue as compared to another preferably in a diseased tissue as compared to a normal tissue of the same tissue type.

This invention encompasses methods of screening compounds to identify those that modulate hyperstabilized c met. Screening assays for antagonist drug candidates are designed to identify compounds that bind or complex with the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide or otherwise interfere with the interaction of the hyperstabilized c met polypeptides with other cellular proteins including e.g. inhibiting the expression of hyperstabilized c met polypeptide from cells.

The assays can be performed in a variety of formats including protein protein binding assays biochemical screening assays immunoassays and cell based assays which are well characterized in the art.

All assays for antagonists are common in that they call for contacting the drug candidate with a hyperstabilized c met polypeptide under conditions and for a time sufficient to allow these two components to interact.

In binding assays the interaction is binding and the complex formed can be isolated or detected in the reaction mixture. In a particular embodiment the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide or the drug candidate is immobilized on a solid phase e.g. on a microtiter plate by covalent or non covalent attachments. Non covalent attachment generally is accomplished by coating the solid surface with a solution of the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide and drying. Alternatively an immobilized antibody e.g. a monoclonal antibody specific for the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide to be immobilized can be used to anchor it to a solid surface. The assay is performed by adding the non immobilized component which may be labeled by a detectable label to the immobilized component e.g. the coated surface containing the anchored component. When the reaction is complete the non reacted components are removed e.g. by washing and complexes anchored on the solid surface are detected. When the originally non immobilized component carries a detectable label the detection of label immobilized on the surface indicates that complexing occurred. Where the originally non immobilized component does not carry a label complexing can be detected for example by using a labeled antibody specifically binding the immobilized complex.

If the candidate compound interacts with but does not bind to a hyperstabilized c met polypeptide its interaction with hyperstabilized c met can be assayed by methods well known for detecting protein protein interactions. Such assays include traditional approaches such as e.g. cross linking co immunoprecipitation and co purification through gradients or chromatographic columns. In addition protein protein interactions can be monitored by using a yeast based genetic system described by Fields and co workers Fields and Song 340 245 246 1989 Chien et al. 88 9578 9582 1991 as disclosed by Chevray and Nathans 89 5789 5793 1991 . Many transcriptional activators such as yeast GAL4 consist of two physically discrete modular domains one acting as the DNA binding domain the other one functioning as the transcription activation domain. The yeast expression system described in the foregoing publications generally referred to as the two hybrid system takes advantage of this property and employs two hybrid proteins one in which the target protein is fused to the DNA binding domain of GAL4 and another in which candidate activating proteins are fused to the activation domain. The expression of a GAL1 lacZ reporter gene under control of a GAL4 activated promoter depends on reconstitution of GAL4 activity via protein protein interaction. Colonies containing interacting polypeptides are detected with a chromogenic substrate for galactosidase. A complete kit MATCHMAKER for identifying protein protein interactions between two specific proteins using the two hybrid technique is commercially available from Clontech. This system can also be extended to map protein domains involved in specific protein interactions as well as to pinpoint amino acid residues that are crucial for these interactions.

Compounds that interfere with the interaction of hyperstabilized c met and other intra or extracellular components can be tested as follows usually a reaction mixture is prepared containing hyperstabilized c met and the intra or extracellular component under conditions and for a time allowing for the interaction and binding of the two products. To test the ability of a candidate compound to inhibit binding the reaction is run in the absence and in the presence of the test compound. In addition a placebo may be added to a third reaction mixture to serve as positive control. The binding complex formation between the test compound and the intra or extracellular component present in the mixture is monitored as described hereinabove. The formation of a complex in the control reaction s but not in the reaction mixture containing the test compound indicates that the test compound interferes with the interaction of the test compound and its reaction partner.

To assay for antagonists the compound to be screened for a particular activity may be added to a cell expressing hyperstabilized c met and the ability of the compound to inhibit the activity of interest indicates that the compound is an antagonist to the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide. The hyperstabilized c met polypeptide can be labeled such as by radioactivity such that the number of hyperstabilized c met polypeptide molecules present on the cell can be used to determine the effectiveness of the potential antagonist.

A potential hyperstabilized c met antagonist is an antisense RNA or DNA construct prepared using antisense technology where e.g. an antisense RNA or DNA molecule acts to block directly the translation of mRNA by hybridizing to targeted mRNA and preventing protein translation. Antisense technology can be used to control gene expression through triple helix formation or antisense DNA or RNA both of which methods are based on binding of a polynucleotide to DNA or RNA. For example the 5 coding portion of the polynucleotide sequence which encodes the mature hyperstabilized c met protein can be used to design an antisense RNA oligonucleotide of from about 10 to 40 base pairs in length. A DNA oligonucleotide is designed to be complementary to a region of the gene involved in transcription triple helix see Lee et al. 6 3073 1979 Cooney et al. 241 456 1988 Dervan et al. 251 1360 1991 thereby preventing transcription and the production of the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide. The antisense RNA oligonucleotide hybridizes to the mRNA in vivo and blocks translation of the mRNA molecule into the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide antisense Okano 56 560 1991 CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1988 . The oligonucleotides described above can also be delivered to cells such that the antisense RNA or DNA may be expressed in vivo to inhibit production of the hyperstabilized c met polypeptide. When antisense DNA is used oligodeoxyribonucleotides derived from the translation initiation site e.g. between about 10 and 10 positions of the target gene nucleotide sequence are preferred.

Ribozymes are enzymatic RNA molecules capable of catalyzing the specific cleavage of RNA. Ribozymes act by sequence specific hybridization to the complementary target RNA followed by endonucleolytic cleavage. Specific ribozyme cleavage sites within a potential RNA target can be identified by known techniques. For further details see e.g. Rossi 4 469 471 1994 and PCT publication No. WO 97 33551 published Sep. 18 1997 .

Nucleic acid molecules in triple helix formation used to inhibit transcription should be single stranded and composed of deoxynucleotides. The base composition of these oligonucleotides is designed such that it promotes triple helix formation via Hoogsteen base pairing rules which generally require sizeable stretches of purines or pyrimidines on one strand of a duplex. For further details see e.g. PCT publication No. WO 97 33551 supra.

These small molecules can be identified by any one or more of the screening assays discussed hereinabove and or by any other screening techniques well known for those skilled in the art.

In one embodiment internalizing antibodies are preferred. Antibodies can possess certain characteristics or modified to possess such characteristics that enhance delivery of antibodies into cells. Techniques for achieving this are known in the art. In yet another embodiment an antibody can be expressed in a target cell by introducing a nucleic acid capable of expressing the antibody into a targeted cell. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 703 019 6 329 173 and PCT Pub. No. 2003 077945. Lipofections or liposomes can also be used to deliver the antibody into cells. Where antibody fragments are used the smallest inhibitory fragment that specifically binds to the binding domain of the target protein is generally advantageous. For example based upon the variable region sequences of an antibody peptide molecules can be designed that retain the ability to bind the target protein sequence. Such peptides can be synthesized chemically and or produced by recombinant DNA technology. See e.g. Marasco et al. 90 7889 7893 1993 .

Entry of modulator polypeptides into target cells can be enhanced by methods known in the art. For example certain sequences such as those derived from HIV Tat or the Antennapedia homeodomain protein are able to direct efficient uptake of heterologous proteins across cell membranes. See e.g. Chen et al. 1999 96 4325 4329.

C met antagonist antibodies of the invention can be any antibody that is capable of interfering with c met activity. Some specific examples include an anti c met antibody comprising 

 a at least one two three four or five hypervariable region HVR sequences selected from the group consisting of 

and b at least one variant HVR wherein the variant HVR sequence comprises modification of at least one residue of the sequence depicted in SEQ ID NOs 4 5 6 20 21 or 22. In one embodiment HVR L1 of an antibody of the invention comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 4 . In one embodiment HVR L2 of an antibody of the invention comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 5 . In one embodiment HVR L3 of an antibody of the invention comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 6 . In one embodiment HVR H1 of an antibody of the invention comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 20 . In one embodiment HVR H2 of an antibody of the invention comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 21 . In one embodiment HVR H3 of an antibody of the invention comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 22 . In one embodiment HVR H3 comprises TYGSYVSPLDY SEQ ID NO 23 . In one embodiment HVR H3 comprises SYGSYVSPLDY SEQ ID NO 24 . In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprising these sequences in combination as described herein is humanized or human.

In one aspect the invention provides an antibody comprising one two three four five or six HVRs wherein each HVR comprises consists or consists essentially of a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 4 5 6 20 21 22 23 or 24 and wherein SEQ ID NO 4 corresponds to an HVR L1 SEQ ID NO 5 corresponds to an HVR L2 SEQ ID NO 6 corresponds to an HVR L3 SEQ ID NO 20 corresponds to an HVR H1 SEQ ID NO 21 corresponds to an HVR H2 and SEQ ID NOs 22 23 or 24 corresponds to an HVR H3. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises HVR L1 HVR L2 HVR L3 HVR H1 HVR H2 and HVR H3 wherein each in order comprises SEQ ID NOs 4 5 6 20 21 and 23. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises HVR L1 HVR L2 HVR L3 HVR H1 HVR H2 and HVR H3 wherein each in order comprises SEQ ID NOs 4 5 6 20 21 and 24.

Variant HVRs in an antibody of the invention can have modifications of one or more residues within the HVR. In one embodiment a HVR L2 variant comprises 1 5 1 2 3 4 or 5 substitutions in any combination of the following positions B1 M or L B2 P T G or S B3 N G R or T B4 I N or F B5 P I L or G B6 A D T or V and B7 R I M or G . In one embodiment a HVR H1 variant comprises 1 5 1 2 3 4 or 5 substitutions in any combination of the following positions D3 N P L S A I D5 I S or Y D6 G D T K R D7 F H R S T or V and D9 M or Y . In one embodiment a HVR H2 variant comprises 1 4 1 2 3 or 4 substitutions in any combination of the following positions E7 Y E9 I E10 I E14 T or Q E15 D K S T or V E16 L E17 E H N or D and E18 Y E or H . In one embodiment a HVR H3 variant comprises 1 5 1 2 3 4 or 5 substitutions in any combination of the following positions F1 T S F3 R S H T A K F4 G F6 R F M T E K A L W F7 L I T R K V F8 S A F10 Y N and F11 Q S H F . Letter s in parenthesis following each position indicates an illustrative substitution i.e. replacement amino acid as would be evident to one skilled in the art suitability of other amino acids as substitution amino acids in the context described herein can be routinely assessed using techniques known in the art and or described herein. In one embodiment a HVR L1 comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 4. In one embodiment F1 in a variant HVR H3 is T. In one embodiment F1 in a variant HVR H3 is S. In one embodiment F3 in a variant HVR H3 is R. In one embodiment F3 in a variant HVR H3 is S. In one embodiment F7 in a variant HVR H3 is T. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR H3 wherein F1 is T or S F3 is R or S and F7 is T.

F1 is T F3 is R and F7 is T. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR H3 wherein F1 is S. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR H3 wherein F1 is T and F3 is R. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR H3 wherein F1 is S F3 is R and F7 is T. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR H3 wherein F1 is T F3 is S F1 is T and F8 is S. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR H3 wherein F1 is T F3 is S F7 is T and F8 is A. In some embodiments said variant HVR H3 antibody further comprises HVR L1 HVR L2 HVR L3 HVR H1 and HVR H2 wherein each comprises in order the sequence depicted in SEQ ID NOs 4 5 6 20 and 21. In some embodiments these antibodies further comprise a human subgroup III heavy chain framework consensus sequence. In one embodiment of these antibodies the framework consensus sequence comprises substitution at position 71 73 and or 78. In some embodiments of these antibodies position 71 is A 73 is T and or 78 is A. In one embodiment of these antibodies these antibodies further comprise a human id light chain framework consensus sequence.

In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR L2 wherein B6 is V In some embodiments said variant HVR L2 antibody further comprises HVR L1 HVR L3 HVR H1 HVR H2 and HVR H3 wherein each comprises in order the sequence depicted in SEQ ID NOs 4 6 20 21 and 22. In some embodiments said variant HVR L2 antibody further comprises HVR L1 HVR L3 HVR H1 HVR H2 and HVR H3 wherein each comprises in order the sequence depicted in SEQ ID NOs 4 6 20 21 and 23. In some embodiments said variant HVR L2 antibody further comprises HVR L1 HVR L3 HVR H1 HVR H2 and HVR H3 wherein each comprises in order the sequence depicted in SEQ ID NOs 4 6 20 21 and 24. In some embodiments these antibodies further comprise a human subgroup III heavy chain framework consensus sequence. In one embodiment of these antibodies the framework consensus sequence comprises substitution at position 71 73 and or 78. In some embodiments of these antibodies position 71 is A 73 is T and or 78 is A. In one embodiment of these antibodies these antibodies further comprise a human id light chain framework consensus sequence.

In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR H2 wherein E14 is T E15 is K and E17 is E. In one embodiment an antibody of the invention comprises a variant HVR H2 wherein E17 is E. In some embodiments said variant HVR H3 antibody further comprises HVR L1 HVR L2 HVR L3 HVR H1 and HVR H3 wherein each comprises in order the sequence depicted in SEQ ID NOs 4 5 6 20 and 22. In some embodiments said variant HVR H2 antibody further comprises HVR L1 HVR L2 HVR L3 HVR H1 and HVR H3 wherein each comprises in order the sequence depicted in SEQ ID NOs 4 5 6 20 and 23. In some embodiments said variant HVR H2 antibody further comprises HVR L1 HVR L2 HVR L3 HVR H1 and HVR H3 wherein each comprises in order the sequence depicted in SEQ ID NOs 4 5 6 20 and 24. In some embodiments these antibodies further comprise a human subgroup III heavy chain framework consensus sequence. In one embodiment of these antibodies the framework consensus sequence comprises substitution at position 71 73 and or 78. In some embodiments of these antibodies position 71 is A 73 is T and or 78 is A. In one embodiment of these antibodies these antibodies further comprise a human I light chain framework consensus sequence.

The formulation herein may also contain more than one active compound as necessary for the particular indication being treated preferably those with complementary activities that do not adversely affect each other. Alternatively or in addition the composition may comprise an agent that enhances its function such as for example a cytotoxic agent cytokine chemotherapeutic agent or growth inhibitory agent. Such molecules are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended.

The following are examples of the methods and compositions of the invention. It is understood that various other embodiments may be practiced given the general description provided above. The examples are offered for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention in any way.

Cell lines were obtained from American Type Culture Collection ATCC NCI Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis tumor repository or Japanese Health Sciences Foundation. All cell lines with the exception of 293 and Rat 1A were maintained in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 FBS Sigma penicillin streptomycin GIBCO and 2 mM L glutamine. 293 and Rat 1A cells were maintained in high glucose DMEM and supplemented as described.

Full length Met WT V5 His was described previously Kong Beltran M et al. Cancer Cell 6 1 75 84 July 2004 . Met WT V5 His served as a template to produce a Y1003F point mutation using primers described previously Peschard et al 2001 via QuikChange Site Directed Mutagenesis Stratagene according to the manufacturer s instructions. Exon 14 was deleted by using two sets of primers creating new NheI restriction sites flanking Met exon 14 aa 963 1011 via QuikChange Site Directed Mutagenesis and then digesting with NheI followed by religation of the plasmid. Mutations were verified by DNA sequencing. To generate Met stable cell lines in Rat 1A cells 10 g of each pRK5TKneo Met WT V5 His Met Y1003F V5 His or Met Ex14 V5 His DNA was digested with KpnI and purified Qiagen . Rat 1A cells were transfected with 4 g of each DNA in a 6 well plate via Lipofectamine 2000 Invitrogen according to the manufacturer s instructions. The next day cells were trypsinized and seeded into 10 cm plates. Twenty four hours later 500 g ml G418 Sigma was added. Selection continued for approximately two weeks before selecting Met positive clones by FACS using 3D6 antibody see U.S. Pat. No. 6 099 841 and PE staining. One cell was dropped per well. Expanded clones were lysed and tested for Met via immunoblotting with V5 antibody Invitrogen .

For protein expression analyses in frozen tissue specimens tissue 100 mg was homogenized in 200 l of cell lysis buffer Cell Signaling containing protease inhibitor cocktail Sigma phosphatase inhibitor cocktails I and II Sigma 50 mM sodium fluoride and 2 mM sodium orthovanadate using a Polytron homogenizer Kinematica . Samples were further lysed by gentle rocking for 1 hour at 4 C. prior to preclearance with a mixture of Protein A Sepharose Fast Flow Amersham and Protein G Sepharose 4 Fast Flow Amersham . Protein concentrations were determined using Bradford reagent BioRad . Proteins 20 g were subsequently resolved by SDS PAGE transferred to nitrocellulose membrane and immunoblotted with Met DL 21 Upstate or actin I 19 Santa Cruz antibodies. Proteins were visualized by enhanced chemilluminescence ECL Plus Amersham . For coimmunoprecipitation studies involving transfected Met and Cbl 3 g of each Met construct and 3 g of Cbl flag were transfected into 293 cells using FuGENE6 Roche . The next day cells were stimulated with 100 ng ml rhuHGF for 30 minutes prior to harvest using 1 NP40 lysis buffer 50 mM Tris pH 7.45 150 mM NaCl and 1 Nonidet 40 containing Complete protease inhibitor cocktail tablet Roche and phosphatase inhibitor cocktail II. Cell debris was centrifuged and 1 mg of lysates was immunoprecipitated with either 1.5 l V5 Invitrogen or 2 g Cbl C 15 Santa Cruz antibodies at 4 C. with rotation overnight followed by incubation with Protein G or A beads for 2 hrs. 2 sample buffer Invitrogen containing 20 mM DTT Sigma was added and samples were boiled for 5 minutes. Samples were loaded into 4 12 Tris glycine gels Invitrogen and transferred to 0.45 m nitrocellulose membranes Invitrogen . The membrane was blocked with 5 non fat milk for 1 hr followed by immunoblotting with V5 flag polyclonal Sigma or P Tyr 4G10 Upstate antibodies. For binding studies containing endogenous Cbl 293 cells were transfected with 6 g of each DNA construct per 10 cm plate using FuGENE6. The next day cells were stimulated with 100 ng ml rhuHGF for 30 minutes prior to harvest. Samples were immunoprecipitated with 2 g Cbl or 1.5 g V5 antibodies followed by immunoblotting with V5 or Cbl antibodies. The V5 immunoprecipitated blot was stripped using Restore western blot stripping buffer Pierce and reprobed with P Met Y1003 Biosource P Met Y1234 Y12345 Cell Signaling P Met Y1349 Cell Signaling or P Met 1365 Biosource . For degradation studies 293 cells were transfected with 0.25 g of pRKSTKneo Met WT V5 His Met Y1003F V5 His or Met Ex14 V5 His mutant using FuGENE6 in a 6 well plate. The next day cells were treated with 10 g ml cycloheximide Sigma for the indicated times. Lysates were analyzed by SDS PAGE and the membrane was immunoblotted with V5 or actin antibodies.

293 cells were transfected with 3 g Met constructs 2 g Cbl flag 1 g HA ubiquitin and pRKSTKneo or pFlag5a empty vectors when necessary to have 6 g total DNA per sample using FuGENE6. The next day cells were treated with 25 M MG 132 Calbiochem for 4 hours before harvesting. Cells were lysed in 1 NP 40 lysis buffer containing inhibitors 25 M MG 132 and 10 mM N ethylmaleimide. Lysates 1 mg were immunoprecipitated with 1.5 g V5 antibody and immunoblotted with ubiquitin P4D1 Santa Cruz antibody and then stripped and reprobed with V5 antibody.

To examine the prolonged signaling in H226 H596 H358 or Rat 1A Met stable clones the cells were rinsed with PBS then serum starved in RPMI or DMEM media containing 0.5 BSA 2 mM glutamine and penicillin streptomycin for one hour. rhuHGF or the agonistic anti Met monoclonal antibody 3D6 Genentech was added to the serum free media for 10 minutes. The monolayer of cells was then rinsed with PBS and incubated with serum free media until their extraction at the indicated times. Cells were then rinsed once with PBS lysed with 1 SDS sample buffer containing 1 DTT Invitrogen sonicated briefly and boiled for 5 minutes. To analyze Met receptor inhibition serum starved cells had anti Met 5D5 antibody added to serum free media at indicated concentrations for 30 minutes. Cells were then stimulated for 15 for Met activation analysis or 30 minutes for Akt and MAPK analyses with 100 ng ml rhuHGF and lysed with 1 SDS sample buffer containing DTT. Boiled samples were analyzed by SDS PAGE and immunoblotted with P Met Y1230Y11234 Y1235 BioSource P Met Y1234 Y1235 Met DL 21 P MAPK E10 Cell Signaling P MAPK Cell Signaling P Akt 587F11 Cell Signaling or Akt Cell Signaling . Secondary antibodies used were anti rabbit AlexaFluor680 conjugated Molecular Probes or anti mouse IRDye800 conjugated Rockland Immunochemicals . Proteins transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes were detected by infrared scan using Odyssey LiCor according to the manufacturer s recommended western blotting instructions followed by quantification. For cell viability assays cells were plated in triplicate at 1 10cells per well in 96 well plates in RPMI containing 0.5 FBS assay medium overnight prior to stimulation with assay medium containing 50 ng ml rhuHGF. Assay medium without rhuHGF was added to unstimulated wells. After 72 hrs cell viability was measured using the Celltiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay Promega . Stimulation indices were determined by dividing the average cell viability units of HGF stimulated cultures by the average cell viability units of unstimulated cultures. Average stimulation indices were determined from a minimum of 3 separate experiments. Growth inhibition assays were carried out in a similar manner with either OA 5D5 or a control Ig added at the time of HGF stimulation.

Female athymic nude mice Charles River Hollister were inoculated subcutaneously with pools of Rat1A stable cell lines expressing Met WT Met Y1003F Met Ex14 or vector control 5 million cells mouse n 5 . 10 mg kg anti Met 3D6 agonist antibody which recognizes only human Met was administered for Met receptor stimulation intra peritoneally once weekly. Tumors were measured twice weekly using a digital caliper and tumor volumes were calculated using the following equation Tumor Volume mm3 6 A B B . A longest width B shortest width.

We sequenced all coding exons of Met from a panel of lung and colon tumor specimens representing primary tumors tumor cell lines and primary tumor xenograft models. In our sequencing effort we identified somatic heterozygous mutations in primary lung tumor specimens in the intronic regions flanking exon 14 . These mutations were tumor specific and were not identified in non neoplastic lung tissue from the same individuals data not shown . In H596 a non small cell lung cancer NSCLC cell line we identified a homozygous point mutation in the 3p splice donor site. The presence of mutations within the dinucleotidic splice site consensus and the upstream polypyrimidine tract of exon 14 combined with the observation that exon 13 and exon 15 remained in phase suggested that a potential Met transcript lacking exon 14 could still produce a functional Met protein. To address this we first performed RT PCR amplification of Met RNA from the mutant tumors and cell line. All three intronic mutations resulted in a transcript of shorter length compared to the wildtype consistent with deletion of exon 14 data now shown . We also confirmed the absence of exon 14 by sequencing the RT PCR products and our results showed an in frame deletion that removes amino acids L964 through D1010 of Met. Interestingly the mutant form of the receptor is the most predominantly expressed form despite the tumor samples being heterozygous for the exon 14 deletion data not shown indicating a preferential expression of the variant transcript. This was further confirmed by Western blotting demonstrating the predominant expression of a truncated Met protein. Specimens harboring these intronic mutations were wildtype for K ras B raf EGFR and HER2 in relevant exons sequenced data not shown . Taken together these results indicate the dominant nature of these Met intronic mutations mutations. Interestingly a splice variant of Met lacking exon14 has been previously reported in normal mouse tissue although the functional consequence with respect to tumorigenesis was unclear 20 21 . However we did not detect expression of this splice variant in any normal human lung specimens examined data not shown . The lack of this splice variant in normal human tissue has been additionally substantiated as previously discussed 21 . cDNA comprising a splice variant lacking exon 14 has been reported in a primary human NSCLC specimen however the role of somatic mutagenesis in mediating splicing defects was not assessed nor was the functional consequence if any of any mutant c met that might have been expressed 22 . Since nucleic acids comprising splice variants are not uncommon in cancer cells the functional relevance of the reported splice variant was unknown.

The 47 amino acid deletion of exon 14 within the juxtamembrane domain of Met L964 D1010 removes the Y1003 phosphorylation site necessary for Cbl binding and down regulation of the activated receptor. Previous studies show that a Y1003F mutation abolishes Cbl binding and maintains Met activation 6 . We first confirmed loss of Cbl binding of the tumor associated mutant Met by coimmunoprecipitation studies. 293 cells were transfectd with wildtype Met Met WT mutant Met Y1003F Met Y1003F and exon14 deleted Met Met Ex14 by transfection of these Met constructs with Cbl flag into 293 cells. We observed that Cbl binding to Met Ex14 is decreased compared to WT Met and confirmed loss of Cbl binding to Met Y1003F 6 . Cbl tyrosine phosphorylation by Met WT and Met mutants were equivalent indicating that the Met mutations did not alter overall Cbl phosphorylation. Our data also indicated that Met WT coimmunoprecipitates with endogenous Cbl but not with Met Ex14 which is consistent with the observed co expression of Met and Cbl. In addition we examined tyrosine phosphorylation sites necessary for Met receptor activation. Our data indicate that phosphorylation of Y1234 Y1235 Y1349 and Y1365 is maintained in both Met WT and Met Ex14 . As expected a loss of Y1003 phosphorylation in Met Ex14 was observed in contrast to Met WT . Since Cbl E3 ligase activity is reported to facilitate ubiquitin mediated degradation of the receptor 6 8 ubiquitination assays were carried out on cells transfected with Met WT Met Y1003F and Met Ex14. Both Met Ex14 and Met Y1003F show attenuated ubiquitination compared to Met WT in the presence of Cbl . We confirmed that phosphorylation of Y1234 Y1235 was maintained in all Met constructs and phospho Y1003 was lost in the mutants as before data not shown . Interestingly less processed Met WT was detected with Cbl co expression compared to the mutants or expression of Met WT alone . These observations suggest that Met WT that binds Cbl is preferentially ubiquitinated and degraded 6 24 in contrast to the Met Ex14. To determine if decreased ubiquitination of Met Ex14 leads to receptor down regulation cells were transfected with Met constructs and treated with cycloheximide to block new protein synthesis. Met Ex14 showed delayed receptor down regulation over time compared to Met WT . The Met Y1003F mutant showed similar results data not shown . Significantly primary tumors harboring the exon 14 splice variant exhibited elevated levels of Met protein relative to both the patient matched normal adjacent lung tissue and Met wild type adenocarcinomas data not shown despite expressing equivalent levels of Met at the transcript level. Furthermore immunohistochemistry analysis of Met expression in these exon 14 deleted patient tumors reveals strong membranous expression in all neoplastic cells in contrast sporadic Met expression is observed in tumors with Met WT and in normal adjacent tissues data not shown .

To determine if decreased down regulation of Met Ex14 affected downstream cell signaling upon HGF stimulation Met Akt and MAPK phosphorylation levels were examined in NSCLC tumor cell lines harboring the exon 14 deletion H596 or Met WT H226 and H358 . H596 cells showed that both phospho Met and phospho MAPK levels were maintained up to 3 hours post HGF stimulation whereas both H226 and H358 cell lines which expressed Met WT receptor exhibited a steady loss of phosphorylation over time . Interestingly phospho Akt levels were not sustained over time despite initial activation in response to HGF. Phosphorylation of Stat3 and Stat5 were also examined but did not exhibit elevated activation data not shown . Since these tumor cell lines were derived from different genetic backgrounds we generated stable cell lines in Rat1A cells with empty vector Met WT and Met Ex14 for comparison. Rat1A Met Ex14 demonstrated prolonged MAPK phosphorylation but not Akt activation compared to Met WT upon stimulation with the Met agonist 3D6 which activates the recombinant human receptor alone 25 corroborating data obtained from the NSCLC tumor cell lines.

The consequences of sustained Met and MAPK signaling was examined in HGF mediated proliferation of H596 cells which harbor exon 14 deleted Met in the context of a panel of 28 additional NSCLC cell lines . H596 cells consistently exhibited the highest proliferative potential upon HGF stimulation in this panel of NSCLC cell lines. Moreover to assess in vivo growth of the Met deletion mice were inoculated with Rat 1A Met Ex14 stable cell lines and compared with Rat 1A Met WT for the ability to form tumors. Increased cell proliferation was observed in both Met Ex14 and Met Y1003F Rat1a cells compared with Met WT data not shown . Upon stimulation with 3D6 the Rat 1A Met Ex14 cells were highly tumorigenic and developed larger tumors compared to that of Rat 1A Met WT . These results were consistent with an enhanced oncogenic role for the exon 14 deleted Met.

To determine whether Met antagonists could inhibit tumor cells harboring the Met deletion H596 cells were treated with a known anti c met inhibitor also referred to as anti Met OA 5D5 26 . Anti Met OA 5D5 is an antibody comprising 3 immunoglobulin polypeptides an intact light chain and heavy chain comprising variable domain sequences shown in and an N terminally truncated heavy chain comprising an Fc portion that dimerizes with the Fc portion of the full length heavy chain. Construction and generation of anti Met OA 5D5 is also described in PCT Pat. Appl. No. PCT US2004 042619 filed Dec. 17 2004 . Met and MAPK phosphorylation decreased with the addition of anti Met OA 5D5 in a dose dependent manner . In addition treatment of H596 cells with OA 5D5 resulted in the dose dependent inhibition of cell proliferation in a ligand dependent manner . These results support a therapeutic approach comprising targeting cancers expressing c met that is hyperstabilized such as a mutant c met that exhibits deletion of the juxtamembrane with a Met antagonist.

Despite the intrinsic nature of aberrant splicing in tumor cells it is rather unexpected that a tumor associated splice variant actually encodes a mutant receptor protein that is slower to be degraded intracellularly and that exhibits increased oncogenic activity. Our data strongly suggest that a splicing event driven for example by somatic mutagenesis is utilized by tumors to activate an oncogenic gene product. In the instant study the identification of multiple types of intronic mutations that differentially affect the assembly of the spliceosome and selectively exclude exon 14 highlights the relevance of such a mutagenic event in Met. Interestingly deletions and insertions within the juxtamembrane domain apparently play a role in the activation of certain receptor tyrosine kinases by altering receptor conformation and activation of the kinase domain Hubbard Nature Rev Mol Cell Bio. 5 464 470 June 2004 . Juxtamembrane deletion of KIT Hirota et al. Science 279 5350 577 580 Jan. 23 1998 and PDGFR Heinrich MC. et al Science 299 708 2003 has been identified in gastrointestinal stromal tumors internal tandem repeats within the juxtamembrane activate FLT3 in acute myeloid leukemia Nakao M et al Leukemia 10 1911 1996 . However our identification of ajuxtamembrane deletion herein characterizes a completely different mechanism of Met activation that delays receptor down regulation thus resulting in mutant c met proteins with significantly enhanced stability in cancer cells. These data suggest that mutations that drive receptor down regulation may lead to oncogenic activation and drive tumor development.

