---

title: Personal identification information schemas
abstract: A digital identity system includes a principal including an identity selector programmed to receive a security policy from a relying party, review a plurality of digital identities associated with the principal, and request one or more claims related to an identity of the principal from an identity provider. The principal is further programmed to receive one or more security tokens including the claims from the identity provider, and to forward the security tokens to the relying party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08117459&OS=08117459&RS=08117459
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08117459
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060728
---
This application is a continuation in part of a U.S. patent application entitled IDENTITY PROVIDERS IN DIGITAL IDENTITY SYSTEM Ser. No. 11 361 281 by inventors Cameron et al. and filed Feb. 24 2006 and is hereby incorporated by reference.

Identity is an important component enabling interactions in everyday life. For example an individual s credit card enables merchants to identify and allow the individual to purchase products and services on credit. The same is true in the digital world where digital identities enable digital interactions. For example digital identities can be used to authenticate parties to each other in the digital environment. Knowing with whom one is interacting is an important element in deciding whether or not to trust and provide information to a party.

An entity can use a digital identity to authenticate a party s identity or other personal information about the party. A digital identity can be issued by another entity such as a trusted third party and can include information about the party. Examples of such information include the party s name address social security number age telephone number etc. A party can have multiple digital identities issued by one or more other entities similar to that of an individual having a driver s license a credit card and a frequent flyer card.

In the online environment a third party such as an online service can require that a party authenticate its identity before the third party allows the party to access goods or services. In order to authenticate its identity the party can forward to the third party a digital identity in the form of a security token issued by another entity trusted by the third party. Once authentication is complete the third party can provide access to the goods or services requested by the party.

In typical systems it is necessary for the party to manually collect all of the security tokens required by the third party and then provide the information to the third party for authentication. In many cases the party has little or no ability to control the contents of a security token issued by another entity. When the party shares a security token with a third party during authentication of the party s identity the party s privacy can become a concern. For example the party can unknowingly share personal information in the security token with the third party that the party does not need to share for authentication. In addition the party can unknowingly provide personal information that the party does not want to share with the third party e.g. social security number telephone number etc. .

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One aspect relates to a digital identity system including a principal and an identity selector programmed to receive a security policy from a relying party review a plurality of digital identities associated with the principal and request one or more claims related to an identity of the principal from an identity provider. The principal is further programmed to receive one or more security tokens including the claims from the identity provider and to forward the security tokens to the relying party.

Another aspect relates to method for providing a digital identity the method including receiving a request for one or more claims related to an identity of a principal providing the claims transforming the claims and generating a security token including the claims.

Another aspect relates to a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing steps including receiving a request for one or more claims related to an identity of a principal providing the claims transforming the claims and generating a security token including the claims.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. These embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Example embodiments disclosed herein relate generally to digital identity systems including digital identities that can be exchanged between a first party and a second party to authenticate an identity and or information related to the first party. In example embodiments herein the first party can be an individual a company an organization a computer or other device a service or any other type of entity. The first party is referred to herein as the principal. In example embodiments the second party can be an individual a company an organization a computer or other device a service or any other type of entity. The second party has goods services or other information that the principal desires to access and or obtain. The second party is referred to herein as the relying party.

In example embodiments disclosed herein digital identity systems enable the exchange of digital identities between parties across different subsystems using different technologies. Generally the parties subsystems of these example digital identity systems can include one or more of the following attributes 

Referring now to an example digital identity system is shown including a principal and a relying party . Principal and relying party can communicate with each other over one or more networks such as the Internet . In example embodiments principal can request goods services or other information from relying party . Relying party can require authentication of the identity of or information about principal before or in conjunction with providing the requested goods services or information to principal .

Also shown in is an example identity provider including a claims transformer and a claims authority . The claims transformer is sometimes referred to as a security token service. In the example shown identity provider can provide one or more claims about principal . A claim is a statement or assertion made about the principal related to the principal s identity or information about the principal such as for example name address social security number age etc. As described further below identity provider can provide claims to principal and or relying party in the form of a signed security token. In example embodiments identity provider is in a trusted relationship with relying party so that relying party trusts the claims in the signed security token from identity provider .

Although claims transformer and claims authority of identity provider are shown as separate entities in in alternative embodiments claims transformer and claims authority can be the same entity or different entities.

In example embodiments disclosed herein system is implemented as an InfoCard system provided in the WINDOWS operating system developed by MICROSOFT Corporation of Redmond Wash. The InfoCard system allows principals to manage multiple digital identities from various identity providers.

The InfoCard system utilizes a web services platform such as the Windows Communication Foundation in the WINFX application programming interface. In addition the InfoCard system is built using the Web Services Security Specifications propagated at least in part by MICROSOFT Corporation of Redmond Wash. These specifications include a message security model WS Security an endpoint policy WS SecurityPolicy a metadata protocol WS MetadataExchange and a trust model WS Trust. Generally the WS Security model describes how to attach security tokens to messages. The WS SecurityPolicy model describes end point policy requirements such as required security tokens and supported encryption algorithms. Such policy requirements can be conveyed and negotiated using a metadata protocol defined by WS MetadataExchange. The WS Trust model describes a framework for trust models that enables different web services to interoperate.

Example embodiments described herein refer to the Web Services Security Specifications described above. In alternative embodiments one or more other specifications can be used to facilitate communications between the various subsystems in system .

In example embodiments principal relying party and identity provider can each utilize one or more a computer systems. Each computer system includes one or more of volatile and non volatile computer readable media. Computer readable media includes storage media as well as removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The computer system also includes communication media that typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. Communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The computer system includes an operating system such as the WINDOWS operating system from MICROSOFT Corporation and one or more programs stored on the computer readable media. The computer system also includes one or more input and output communications devices that allow the user to communicate with the computer system as well as allow the computer system to communicate with other devices. Communications between the computer systems used by principal relying party and identity provider can be implemented using wired and or wireless technologies.

Referring now to example principal and relying party are again shown. In the example shown principal sends a request to relying party for goods services or other information. For example in one embodiment principal sends a request to relying party for access to information from relying part that principal desires.

The request sent by principal can include a request for the authentication requirements of relying party using for example the mechanisms provided in WS MetadataExchange. In response to the request relying party sends principal requirements for relying party to authenticate its identity or other information about principal . The requirements of relying party for authentication are referred to herein as a security policy. The security policy defines the set of claims from a trusted identity provider that the principal must provide to relying party for relying party to authenticate principal .

In one example relying party specifies its security policy using WS SecurityPolicy including both the claim requirements and type of security token required by relying party . A basic form for a security policy in accordance with WS SecurityPolicy is illustrated in the example below.

In this example one claim regarding the given name of the principal is required by the security policy for authentication. Examples of other types of claims include without limitation the following 

The security policy can also be used to specify the type of security token required by relying party or a default type can be used as determined by the identity provider. For example the above noted policy specifies a certain type of security token that is required by relying party see the wst TokenType element .

In addition to specifying the required claims and token type the security policy can specify a specific identity provider required by the relying party see the sp Issuer element as shown below.

The policy can omit this element leaving the determination of the appropriate identity provider up to principal . Other elements can be specified in the security policy as well such as for example the freshness of the required security token.

In some embodiments principal can require that relying party identify itself to principal so that principal can decide whether or not to satisfy the security policy of relying party as described below. In one example relying party identifies itself using an X509 certificate. In other embodiments relying party can identify itself using other mechanisms such as for example a Secure Sockets Layer SSL server certificate.

For example in one embodiment endpoint verification of relying party is provided using the provisions in WS Addressing such as the wsid Identity element with an X509v3 certificate in the example shown below 

Referring now to an example computer system of principal includes one or more digital identities for principal . These digital identities sometimes referred to as InfoCards in the InfoCard system provided in the WINDOWS operating system developed by MICROSOFT Corporation of Redmond Wash. are artifacts that represent the token issuance relationship between principal and a particular identity provider such as identity provider . In the examples shown each digital identity corresponds to a particular identity provider and principal can have multiple digital identities from the same or different identity providers.

Digital identities can include among other information the identity provider s issuance policy for security tokens including the type of tokens that can be issued the claim types for which it has authority and or the credentials to use for authentication when requesting security tokens. In example embodiments digital identities are represented as XML documents that are issued by identity providers and stored by principals on a storage device such as computer system . An example format for a digital identity is provided below.

In the example above the digital identity is issued by XYZ Identity Provider and the digital identity states that XYZ Identity Provider supports the Security Assertion Markup Language SAML token type SupportedTokenTypes element provided in accordance with the SAML standard promulgated by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards OASIS . In addition the digital identity states that XYZ Identity Provider can provide two claims SupportedClaims element including givenname and surname requires the relying party s identity be included in the token request RequireAppliesTo element and requires authentication based on username password when requesting security tokens UserNamePasswordAuthenticate element .

Digital identities can be issued to principal using a variety of methods. For example in some embodiments principal can request a digital identity over a hypertext transfer protocol connection or digital identities can be emailed from identity provider to principal . In example embodiments identity provider signs each digital identity sent to principal so that principal can verify that the digital identity is from identity provider .

Computer system also includes an identity selector . Generally identity selector selects between one or more digital identities of principal on computer system to request and obtain security tokens from one or more identity providers such as identity provider . For example as described further below when a security policy from relying party is received by computer identity selector is programmed to identify one or more digital identities that satisfy one or more of the claims required by the security policy using the information in digital identities . In one embodiment identity selector presents the one or more relevant digital identities to principal and principal can decide whether or not to use digital identities .

Referring now to once principal receives the security policy from relying party principal can communicate with using for example computer one or more identity providers to gather the claims required by the policy. In the example shown principal communicates the requirements of the security policy to identity provider .

In example embodiments principal requests one or more security tokens from identity provider using the issuance mechanism described in WS Trust. In one example principal forwards the claim requirements in the policy of relying party to identity provider . The identity of relying party can but need not be specified in the request sent by principal to identity provider see the RequireAppliesTo element in the example digital identity described above . The request can include other requirements as well such as a request for a display token as described further below.

In another example below instead of requesting specific claims from identity provider principal can simply provide a reference to one of its digital identities issued by identity provider in its request.

In example embodiments identity provider has its own security policy as specified in WS SecurityPolicy and can require authentication of principal before identity provider forwards a security token to principal .

Generally claims authority of identity provider can provide one or more of the claims required by the policy from relying party . For example claims authority is programmed to generate one or more claims request by principal . Claims transformer of identity provider is programmed to transform the claims and to generate one or more signed security tokens that include the claims.

In example embodiments claims transformer is programmed to generate a security token that can be understood by relying party . As noted above principal can request a security token in a certain format see the wst TokenType element in the example request provided above in its request to identity provider based on requirements from relying party see the wst TokenType element in the example security policy provided above . Claims transformer can be programmed to generate security tokens in one of a plurality of formats including without limitation X509 Kerberos SAML versions 1.0 and 2.0 Simple extensible Identity Protocol SXIP etc.

For example in one embodiment claims authority is programmed to generate claims in a first format A and the security policy of relying party requires a security token in a second format B. Claims transformer can transform the claims from claims authority from format A into format B before sending security token to principal .

In addition claims transformer can be programmed to refine the semantics of a particular claim. In example embodiments the semantics of a particular claim are transformed to minimize the amount of information provided in a particular claim and or security token to reduce or minimize the amount of personal information that is conveyed by a given claim.

For example in one embodiment the security policy of relying party requires a claim stating that principal is over 21 years of age. When this requirement is communicated to identity provider claims authority is programmed to provide a claim of the actual age of principal e.g. Birth Date Jan. 1 1966 . When this claim is provided to claims transformer claims transformer transforms the semantics of the claim from the actual birth date of principal to a claim that principal is over 21 years of age e.g. Age 21 TRUE . In this manner when this claim is packaged into security token that is forwarded through principal to relying party less personal information about principal is shared with relying party while the requirements of relying party are still met.

Once security token is generated by claims transformer of identity provider security token can be forwarded to principal . In example embodiments claims transformer forwards the security token to principal using the response mechanisms described in WS Trust. In one embodiment claims transformer includes a security token service sometimes referred to as an STS such as that disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 436 880 filed on May 12 2003 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Referring now to an example security token is shown. In the embodiment shown security token includes a computational token and a display token . Computational token includes the claims provided by identity provider in an encrypted format. Claims transformer generates computational token in an encrypted format that can be understood i.e. decrypted by relying party .

Claims transformer also generates display token . Generally display token includes at least a summary of the claims that are included in computational token of security token . For example in some embodiments display token includes a list of all of the claims included in computational token . Display token can be generated in a format that can be reviewed by principal using for example computer system . In some examples display token is generated in a plain text format or a hypertext markup language format. One example of a display token included as part of a security token response is shown below.

In some embodiments security token including computational token is issued in accordance with the SAML standard. For example security token can be issued in accordance with SAML 1.1 or SAML 2.0 standards. Other standards can also be used such as for example and without limitation an X.509 certificate and a Kerberos ticket.

In addition security token can be cryptographically signed or endorsed by claims transformer using a known algorithm. In one embodiment for example and without limitation a 2048 bit asymmetric Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA key is used. In other embodiments other encryption algorithms can be used such as for example a base64 encoded symmetric encryption key. In one embodiment a symmetric key is used by default. In this manner in the example shown a party such as relying party can cryptographically verify that security token originated from identity provider .

In example embodiments computational token is cryptographically bound to display token using one or more known algorithms such as a digital signature over the entire response message from the claims authority containing both the computational token and the display token .

In example embodiments a display token is provided by default in each security token issued by a claims transformer. In other embodiments a display token is provided only if the principal requests the display token. An example of such a display token request included in a security token request is as follows.

The optional attribute LangId indicates a language identifier for the display token using language codes specified in RFC 3066.

In example embodiments a principal can review the display information from the display token and decide whether or not to forward the security token to a relying party. In other embodiments the principal can review the display information but does not have the option to stop the forwarding of the security token to the relying party. In other words once the security token is requested by the principal the security token is automatically forwarded to the relying party once the security token is received by the principal.

In example embodiments if a security token lacks a display token the principal is notified of the lack of the display token and the principal can decide whether or not to forward the security token to the relying party. In other embodiments if no display token is provided no display information is presented to the principal.

In example embodiments only the computational token portion of a security token is forwarded by the principal to the relying party. In other embodiments the principal forwards the entire security token including both the computational token and the display token to the relying party.

Additional details about example embodiments of security tokens including display tokens can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 312 920 filed on Dec. 19 2005 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Referring now to principal can forward security token to relying party to satisfy all or a part of the security policy of relying party . In one example principal can forward security token to relying party by binding security token to an to application message using the security binding mechanisms described in WS Security.

Once relying party receives security token relying party can cryptographically verify the origin of signed security token . Relying party can also utilize the claims in the computational token of security token to satisfy the security policy of relying party to authenticate principal . Once authentication is complete relying party can provide access to the goods services or other information requested by principal .

In exampled disclosed herein communication between principal relying party and identity provider can be conducted in a technology neutral fashion. For example the embodiments disclosed herein use the mechanisms provided in WS MetadataExchange and WS SecurityPolicy to facilitate communication between components using different technologies and communication protocol formats. In this manner the various components in digital identity system can communicate with one another.

Referring now to an example method for authenticating a principal is shown. Method is described with reference to a non limiting example in which the principal is Employee A. Employee A is an employee of a company referred to as Company A and the relying party is a travel agency referred to as Travel Agency A. Company A has partnered with Travel Agency A for making travel arrangements for employees of Company A at discounted rates.

At operation of method a principal requests information from a relying party. In the example embodiment Employee A utilizes an application program on Employee A s computer to request travel arrangements from the web site of Travel Agency A. Next at operation Employee A s computer receives the security policy from the web site of Travel Agency A. This policy requires that Employee A submit a security token with a claim establishing that Employee A is an employee of Company A before Employee A can access the discounted travel arrangements on the web site of Travel Agency A.

At operation Employee A s computer forwards a request based on the security policy to an identity provider which in the present example is a security token service or STS operated by Company A. The STS of Company A can issue a security token with a claim establishing that Employee A is an employee of Company A. For example the claim can be Is Employee of Company A True. Next at operation Employee A s computer receives a signed security token from the STS of Company A. The security token includes a computational token and a display token with the computational token including the claim establishing that Employee A is an employee of Company A.

Control is then passed to operation and Employee A s computer presents the summary of the claims from the display token to Employee A for review. In some embodiments Employee A is given the option to review the contents of the security token using the display token and then decide whether or not to forward the security token to the web site of Travel Agency A based on the information in the display token presented to Employee A. In other embodiments Employee A is not given the option regarding whether or not to forward the security token to Travel Agency A.

Next at operation the security token is forwarded to the web site of Travel Agency A. Control is then passed to operation and Employee A gains access to the requested discounted travel arrangements on the web site of Travel Agency A.

Referring now to operation of method related to forwarding of a request based on the security policy of a relying party to an identity provider is shown in greater detail. At operation the security policy from relying party is reviewed. At operation digital identities for principal are reviewed to identify identity providers that can provide the claims required in the security policy. Next at operation the relevant identity providers are identified based on the digital identities. Finally at operation a request is forwarded to the relevant identity providers for the requested claims.

For example with reference to the non limiting example provided above once Employee A s computer receives the security policy from the web site of Travel Agency A Employee A s computer reviews the digital identities on Employee A s computer to identify the identity providers that can provide the claims required in the security policy. Once the identity providers are identified Employee A s computer sends requests one or more of the identified identity providers for security tokens including the required claims.

In some embodiments relying party identifies a particular identity provider for a particular claim or set of claims see the sp Issuer element in the example security policy provided above . In this case principal can forward a request to the appropriate identity provider for the required claims. In some embodiments the process of selecting identity providers can be automated by for example computer . In other embodiments principal can be involved in the selection of identity providers.

Referring now to an example method for an identity provider to generate a requested security token is provided. Once again method is described with reference to the non limiting example provided above. At operation the identity provider for Company A receives the request for claims forwarded by Employee A. Next at operation Company A generates the requested claims.

Control is then passed to operation wherein any transformation of the claims is conducted. For example Travel Agency A can require a claim specifying that Employee A is an employee of Company A. The claims authority of Company A provides a claim stating that Employee A is employee number 9999 of Company A e.g. Employee A 9999 . The claims transformer of Company A can transform this claim into a claim that simply indicates that Employee A is an employee of Company A e.g. Is Employee of Company A True thereby minimizing the amount of personal information about Employee A contained in the security token.

Next at operation the security token including the claim is generated. As part of the formation of the security token the claims transformer of Company A can transform the security token into one of plurality of formats as required by the request or default. Finally at operation the security token is forwarded to Employee A.

Although in some of the embodiments disclosed herein the principal is an individual in alternative embodiments the principal can be a company an organization a computer or other device a service or any other type of entity. For example in one alternative embodiment the principal is a device that is part of a network. The device can request information such as a software update from another device on the network functioning as a relying party. The relying party can require authentication of the identity of the device before the relying party provides the requested update. The device can request one or more claims required by the security policy of the relying party from one or more claims transformers and the claims transformers can provide one or more security tokens including display tokens to the device. The device can be programmed to review the contents of the display tokens and decide whether or not to forward the security token to the relying party based on its contents. If the device forwards the security token to the relying party the relying party can then complete the authentication process and provide the requested update to the device.

Although example embodiments shown herein illustrate a security token that is forwarded by an identity provider to a principal and then on to a relying party in alternative embodiments the security token can be forwarded directly from the identity provider to the relying party. For example in some embodiments one security token including a computational token and possibly a display token can be forwarded to the relying party and another security token including a display token and possibly the computational token can be forwarded to the principal. Other configurations are possible.

Although the example embodiments shown herein illustrate a security policy requiring only a single claim and a single security token issued by one identity provider in other embodiments a policy can require multiple claims and one or more identity providers can issue one or more security tokens with one or more claims to satisfy the policy.

Exchanging digital identities provides a robust mechanism for identification of a principal to a relying party while limiting the information a relying party may utilize to the information allowed by the principal. Organizing digital identity into a data structure further improves data processing efficiency standardization platform independence and usability.

In one embodiment principal retrieves claims from identity provider in response to receiving a security policy from relying party . Once the claims have been obtained subsequent requests for claims can be retrieved directly from principal in the form a data structure. Identity provider need not be contacted again unless the claims expire or the security policy of relying party is changed to require additional claims.

Referring now to digital identity data structure encapsulates capability data structure connection data structure and cognitive data structure . In one embodiment in response to receiving a security policy from relying party a digital identity data structure is sent from principal to relying party . Relying party may then evaluate the claims in digital identity data structure to determine the principal s identity.

In an alternative embodiment digital identity data structure comprises the InfoCard structure as described above. In a first further embodiment capability data structure comprises the CardPolicy structure. In a second further embodiment connection data structure comprises the KeyInfo structure. In a third further embodiment cognitive data structure comprises at least one of the CardImage and CardName data elements.

Referring now to capability data structure contains a number of capability records . In another embodiment at least one capability data record is a claim. In another embodiment at least one capability record is a descriptor of the identity provider that originated at least one claim. In other embodiments capability records includes without limitation CardPolicy SupportedTokenTypes TimeIssued IssuerName and SupportedClaimTypes record types.

Referring now to connection data structure contains connection records . In one embodiment at least one connection record links at least one claim back to the identity provider fulfilling that claim. In another embodiment at least one connection record contains cryptographic data elements. In other embodiments connection records include without limitation network location connection protocol encryption key encryption methodology and authentication credential.

Referring now to cognitive data structure contains cognitive records . In one embodiment at least one cognitive record identifies digital identity data structure to a human user. In another embodiment at least one cognitive record identifies digital identity data structure to a machine executing instructions. In other embodiments cognitive records include without limitation the name a textual identifier and a graphic identifier of the data structure.

In one embodiment the textual identifier provides principal with a textual identifier of the data structure. Examples of text identifiers include without limitation ABC Bank XYZ Travel Agency and My Retirement Account. In another embodiment a graphical image provides a graphical means to identify the data structure. Examples of graphical identifiers may include corporate logos or purpose descriptive icons. Examples of purpose descriptive icons include without limitation an airplane such as to represent a travel agency or frequent flyer program an automobile such as to represent a rental car agency and a currency symbol such as to represent a bank account or other financial data.

Referring now to a method for providing a digital identity is shown. Method may be initiated by relying party which may in turn be initiated by principal s request for access to goods services or information controlled by relying party . At operation of method a request is received for one or more claims. The claims identify principal .

Next at operation of method one or more claims are received. In one embodiment identity provider is the source of the claims. In another embodiment the one or more claims are acquired such as by accessing information available to principal . Next at operation of method the claims are transformed. Next at operation of method a security token is generated which includes the claims. In another embodiment such as when the transformation of claims is not required operation is omitted. In still other embodiments such as when the encryption of the claims is not required operation is omitted.

At operation of method a computer readable medium is encoded with digital identity data structure . Digital identity data structure comprising capabilities data structure . Capabilities data structure in turn comprises the claim records. At operation the data structure is provided.

In another embodiment one or more cognitive records are generated. Digital identity data structure comprises cognitive data structure which comprises the cognitive records . In a further embodiment at least one cognitive record identifies digital identity data structure . In another further embodiment at least one cognitive record identifying digital identity data structure is determined in response to a user s input. In another embodiment at least one cognitive record identifying digital identity data structure is a graphical image. In one embodiment the user s input is text entered by a keyboard touch pad mouse selection box check box radio button directory speech to text processor or other entry or selection device.

In another embodiment one or more connection records are generated. Digital identity data structure comprises connection data structure which comprises connection records . In one embodiment at least one connection record is generated with encryption decryption token data associated with the identity provider. In further embodiments the encryption decryption data is an encryption decryption key or methodology. In another embodiment at least one connection record is generated with server connection data associated with the source of the security token.

There can be various advantages associated with digital identities systems configured as disclosed herein. For example example identity systems disclosed herein utilize various subsystems that communicate or facilitate communication using a variety of protocols and message formats. In addition such identity systems can automate the process of gathering required authentication information. Further such systems can increase user control and decrease personal information shared among subsystems of the system.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limiting. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the true spirit and scope of the disclosure or the following claims.

