---

title: Inhaler system for targeted maximum drug-aerosol delivery
abstract: A smart inhaler system comprising an inhaler device for directed aerosol delivery facilitated by an adaptive nozzle and a mechanism for inhalation waveform modulation is provided. Methods of using the smart inhaler system for delivering an active agent to a target area of a lung of a subject are further provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07900625&OS=07900625&RS=07900625
owner: North Carolina State University
number: 07900625
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060825
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 711 461 filed Aug. 26 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The presently disclosed subject matter was made with U.S. Government support under Grant Nos. BES 0201271 awarded by the National Science Foundation FA 9550 04 1 0422 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research and 1R21GM074651 01 and 8R21EB006717 02 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. As such the U.S. Government has certain rights in the present subject matter.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to inhaler systems. In particular the presently disclosed subject matter relates to inhaler systems capable of producing a controlled inhaled aerosol stream which can be directed to a desired lung target area with minimization of parasitic deposition.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease was in 1998 the fourth leading cause of death in the United States see National Center for Health Statistics Report 48 11 1998 . There has also been an astonishing increase over the last 20 years in asthma and cancer cases among children see EPA Report 240 R 00 006 December 2000 .

Inhalation of therapeutic particles such as but not limited to drug aerosols is a standard procedure for the treatment of lung airway inflammations and obstructions. This procedure is also now becoming a novel way to combat cancer diabetes AIDS and other diseases as well as for rapid pain management as inhalation of therapeutics can provide a very effective mechanism of systemic delivery. Existing drug aerosol delivery devices however including those that attempt to target specific areas in the lung exhibit poor efficiencies e.g. efficiencies ranging from about 5 to about 20 . Consequently significant portions of the often aggressive and expensive therapeutic agent used to combat diseases such as cancer diabetes and AIDS can deposit on healthy tissue.

For more than 40 years the most commonly used device for administering therapeutic agents to combat such lung diseases has been the pressurized metered dose inhaler pMDI . In a pMDI a propellant e.g. a non CFC such as HFA 134a ejects from a pressurized container via a valve a metered dose of drug in solution or colloidally suspended into a spacer where an aerosolized plume is formed and then inhaled. Despite several improvements over the past decades concerning pMDI propellants actuation mechanisms and plume modifiers see Crowder et al. 2001 and Edwards and Dunbar 2002 pMDI devices suffer from systemic disadvantages Keller 1999 for example the very low target deposition efficiencies the relatively high aerosol speed and the requirement for patients to synchronize their breathing inspiration with the actuation of the aerosol device.

Jet and ultrasonic nebulizers have also been used for administering therapeutic agents. These devices deliver therapeutic agents in the form of small droplets or a mist suitable for single or multiple dose deep lung penetration of drugs by breath actuation. Research efforts thus far have focused on the development of portable battery powered jet and ultrasonic aerosol generators. Unfortunately these devices typically provide unsatisfactory deposition efficiencies.

Use of powder aerosols either loaded by the user into a dry powder inhaler DPI or stored in the device is another approach for administering therapeutic agents. In passive DPIs the motion of the inhaled air generates powder particle entrainment and breakup whereas in active DPIs stored energy e.g. blister packs assists during inhalation in drug powder dispersion Dunbar et al. 1998 . Again like pMDIs and jet and ultrasonic nebulizers DPIs typically do not provide adequate targeted deposition efficiencies.

Thus there is a need in the art for improved aerosol delivery devices especially aerosol delivery devices that can target specific areas in the lung.

This Summary lists several embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter and in many cases lists variations and permutations of these embodiments. This Summary is merely exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments. Mention of one or more representative features of a given embodiment is likewise exemplary. Such an embodiment can typically exist with or without the feature s mentioned likewise those features can be applied to other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter whether listed in this Summary or not. To avoid excessive repetition this Summary does not list or suggest all possible combinations of such features.

In one embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter a method of delivering an active agent to a target area of a lung of a subject in need thereof is provided. In some embodiments the method comprises providing an inhaler system for directing to a subject a controlled aerosol stream comprising an active agent and regulating a release position of the controlled aerosol stream from the inhaler system to deliver the active agent to a target area of a lung of the subject. In some embodiments the active agent comprises one or more physical characteristics selected from the group consisting of a particle size of from about 1 m to about 20 m a substantially spherical shape and a low density.

In another embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter an inhaler device for targeted aerosol stream release is provided. In some embodiments the inhaler device comprises an outer tube having an inlet at one end an outlet at an opposing end and a wall joining the inlet and the outlet comprising one or more air inlet perforations which provide for passage of inhalation airflow into an interior of the outer tube an adaptive nozzle positioned within the interior of the outer tube and having a nozzle base inlet engaged with the outer tube inlet and a nozzle tip outlet proximal to the outer tube outlet wherein the nozzle tip outlet and the nozzle base inlet are in flow communication and adapted for passage of an aerosol stream therebetween and one or more actuators operationally linked to the adaptive nozzle wherein the one or more actuators can position the nozzle tip outlet and thereby target the aerosol stream release from the inhaler device.

In some embodiments the inhaler device comprises an inhalation airflow control mechanism for varying a cross section of one or more of the outer tube air inlet perforations thereby permitting control of the inhalation airflow to generate a desired inhalation waveform. Further in some embodiments the inhalation airflow control mechanism is provided in an inhaler device for generating a desired inhalation waveform in the absence of an adaptive nozzle. In some embodiments the inhalation airflow control mechanism comprises an inner tube comprising one or more air inlet perforations wherein the inner tube is positioned within the interior of the outer tube and slidingly engages an inner surface of the outer tube wall and one or more actuators operationally linked to the inner tube wherein the one or more actuators can slidingly position the inner tube to vary the alignment of the one or more inner tube air inlet perforations with the outer tube air inlet perforations thereby varying the cross section of one or more of the outer tube air inlet perforations. In some embodiments the one or more inner tube actuators comprise an active material such as for example an active material selected from the group consisting of a shape memory alloy e.g. an alloy of nickel and titanium a shape memory polymer a magnetostrictive material and a piezoceramic material.

In some embodiments the inhaler device comprises one or more micropressure sensors positioned proximal to the outer tube outlet which can detect an inhalation waveform from inhalation airflow flowing through the outer tube and transmit a signal to the inner tube actuators. The inner tube actuators can vary the position of the inner tube to change the alignment of the inner tube air inlet perforations with the outer tube air inlet perforations thereby altering the inhalation waveform in response to the signal. The signal from the micropressure sensors can be transmitted to a control logic e.g. a proportional integral derivative PID algorithm which interprets the signal and transmits an actuator control signal to the inner tube actuators. In some embodiments the control logic is in operational communication with computational fluid particle dynamics results that determine one or more of the desired inhalation waveform and the desired position of the adaptive nozzle to direct the aerosol stream to a desired target area in a lung of a subject.

In some embodiments the adaptive nozzle comprises a flexible polymer that permits flexing of the adaptive nozzle. In some embodiments the one or more adaptive nozzle actuators comprise a first set of adaptive nozzle actuators that position the nozzle tip outlet within the outer tube and a second set of adaptive nozzle actuators that flex the adaptive nozzle such that the nozzle tip outlet is axially aligned with the outer tube outlet after positioning. The one or more adaptive nozzle actuators can comprise an active material such as for example a shape memory alloy e.g. an alloy of nickel and titanium a shape memory polymer a magnetostrictive material or a piezoceramic material. In other embodiments the adaptive nozzle can be rotated in an orbit around a central long axis of the outer tube and positioned at one or more desired orbital locations on the orbit.

In another embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter an inhaler system for targeted aerosol stream release is provided. In some embodiments the inhaler system comprises an aerosol source an aerosol injection system in flow communication with the aerosol source and an inhaler device in flow communication with the aerosol injection system. The inhaler device can in some embodiments comprise an outer tube having an inlet at one end an outlet at an opposing end and a wall joining the inlet and the outlet comprising one or more air inlet perforations which provide for passage of inhalation airflow into an interior of the outer tube an adaptive nozzle positioned within the interior of the outer tube and having a nozzle base inlet engaged with the outer tube inlet and a nozzle tip outlet proximal to the outer tube outlet wherein the nozzle tip outlet and the nozzle base inlet are in flow communication and adapted for passage of an aerosol stream therebetween and one or more actuators operationally linked to the adaptive nozzle wherein the one or more actuators can position the nozzle tip outlet and thereby target aerosol stream release from the inhaler device.

In some embodiments the aerosol source comprises a source selected from the group consisting of a pressurized metered dose inhaler pMDI a jet nebulizer JN and a dry powder inhaler DPI .

In some embodiments the aerosol injection system comprises a controllable reservoir chamber having an inlet in flow communication with the aerosol source and an outlet in flow communication with the inhaler device. In some embodiments the aerosol injection system comprises a pressure sensor that measures pressure within the controllable reservoir chamber an inlet valve for controlling entry of an aerosol into the controllable reservoir chamber through the reservoir chamber inlet and an outlet valve for controlling release of the aerosol from the controllable reservoir chamber through the reservoir chamber outlet wherein the pressure sensor measures pressure within the reservoir chamber and regulates opening and closing of the inlet valve and the outlet valve in order to maintain a desired pressure within the reservoir chamber. In some embodiments the inlet and outlet valves each comprise an active material actuator such as for example a thin film actuator. In some embodiments the active material actuator comprises an active material selected from the group consisting of a shape memory alloy a shape memory polymer a magnetostrictive material and a piezoceramic material.

Accordingly it is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide an inhaler system for targeted drug aerosol delivery. This object is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated above other objects and advantages will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the following description of the presently disclosed subject matter and non limiting examples.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides a smart inhaler system which can in representative embodiments fulfill two tasks simultaneously the provision of substantially maximum drug particle deposition on desired lung target sites and the minimization of deposition of potentially very aggressive drugs on healthy lung tissue by targeted release of an aerosol stream from the inhaler system. Further by automatically modifying within the inhaler system inhalation airflow produced by a subject s inhalation the presently disclosed smart inhaler system generates a controlled inhalation waveform thereby reducing or even avoiding extra training phases. The avoidance of such extra training phases can be especially beneficial in the treatment of young children and or the elderly.

In contrast to conventional approaches which use turbulent flow already in the mouth inlet cross section i.e. the inhaler outlet opening to increase mixing of inhalation airflow and aerosols Finley 2001 Crowder 2001 and Clark 2004 computational fluid particle dynamics CFPD analysis utilized by the presently disclosed subject matter predicts a correlation between aerosol characteristics and aerosol stream release position into an inhalation airflow and the deposition location when powered by a predetermined laminar inhalation waveform. The analysis suggests that three factors should be considered for targeted delivery i.e. optimal aerosol characteristics e.g. size shape and density of active agent particles control of the particle release positions and flow control of inhalation waveform. In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter can address each of these factors including in particular the second factor and or the third factor i.e. control of the particle release positions and or flow control of the inhalation waveform utilizing a smart inhaler system of the presently disclosed subject matter for targeted delivery of an active agent in an aerosol stream.

The first factor i.e. aerosol characteristics can in some embodiments be addressed through the selection or production of an active agent alone or in combination with a carrier comprising desired physical characteristics. In some embodiments desired physical characteristics of the active agent include but are not limited to a particle size of from about 1 m to about 10 m or from about 5 m to about 20 m e.g. 7 m or 8 m a substantially spherical shape and a low density e.g. a density comparable to the surrounding carrier medium which can minimize sedimentation and impaction .

Accordingly the presently disclosed subject matter provides in some embodiments a method of delivering an active agent to a target area of a lung of a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments the method comprises providing an inhaler system e.g. a smart inhaler system for directing to a subject a controlled aerosol stream comprising an active agent and regulating a release position of the controlled aerosol stream from the inhaler system into an inhalation airflow to deliver the active agent to a target area of a lung of the subject.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides a smart inhaler system which can increase targeted deposition efficiencies over current inhalers known in the art. Current inhaler systems can at best broadly target lung regions such as the upper bronchial or lower alveolar lung. In contrast the presently disclosed inhalers provide for targeting regions in specific generations i.e. lung branches in either the left or the right lobe of the lung if desired. Together with drastically minimized parasitic wall deposition in the oral airways and on other healthy tissue the presently disclosed smart inhaler system enables safer and more efficient treatment of lung cancer and other respiratory diseases through targeted drug delivery. In addition the system also creates a platform for the oral intake of various other kinds of active agents such as insulin with desirable efficiency.

Further in some embodiments the presently disclosed smart inhaler system can automatically detect and adapt to a subject s breathing pattern thereby providing a desired inhalation waveform and reducing and or even removing the need for individual training and the associated intake uncertainties. An inhalation waveform as the term is used herein refers to a measure of air flow over time e.g. liters per minute . Normally inhalation waveforms can vary over the length of a breath having a peak somewhere toward the middle of a breath and decreasing on either end which in turn is mirrored in an inhaler outlet where an aerosol stream is injected during an actuation of an inhaler device. In addition different users e.g. healthy vs. infirm and children vs. adults produce different waveforms that can affect targeted delivery of the active agent. As such a desired ideal or optimal waveform can be calculated and the presently disclosed smart inhaler system can measure and adapt an inhalation waveform to a desired inhalation waveform. In some embodiments a desired inhalation waveform is a waveform that can facilitate uniform e.g. rectangular graphed waveform laminar flow e.g. an inhalation flow rate Q 12 Liters L minute min of the air stream produced by inhalation through the inhaler i.e. the inhalation airflow during substantially all of the time period during which the aerosol stream is being directed into the inhalation airflow. For example in some embodiments a desired inhalation waveform is one in which the flow rate is substantially constant and from about 6 L min to about 10 L min and in some embodiments about 8 L min.

The performance characteristics of the presently disclosed smart inhaler system can be realized in some embodiments through 1 a combination of sensors 2 an adaptive smart inhaler device and a reservoir chamber both of which can be actuated in some embodiments by shape memory alloy SMA actuators and 3 a control logic which can be based on experimentally validated predictions of a computer simulation model of targeted lung deposition.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed smart inhaler system implements a controlled air particle stream which directs inhaled therapeutic agents such as drug aerosols to a desired lung target area with maximum deposition efficiency independent of an individual subject s inhalation pattern. The inhaler system can work in conjunction with an aerosol source and can comprise in some embodiments two components i an aerosol injection system which regulates the pressure velocity and particle distribution of the aerosol source employed and ii an inhaler device having in some embodiments control mechanisms for a producing the desired inhalation waveform independent of a subject s breathing mode and b delivering into the inhalation waveform the embedded particle aerosol stream from an optimal release position.

To achieve a desired aerosol efficiency at targeted lung areas such as for example more than about 45 the inhaler device which also can function as a mouth piece can be attached e.g. by a clamp either directly to an existing aerosol source for example a jet nebulizer JN a pressurized metered dose inhaler pMDI or a dry powder inhaler DPI and the like or to an aerosol injection system which in turn is attached to an aerosol source. The inhaler device can be regulated for a specific aerosol type and disease and helps to guide the therapeutic agent to the desired lung target area independent of the subject s breathing pattern.

In addition to respiratory therapies an increasing number of therapeutic agents could benefit from lung delivery via the presently disclosed smart inhaler system including anti tubercular agents vaccines morphine and other therapeutic agents for pain management growth hormones insulin for diabetes therapy beta interferon and oligonucleotides for cystic fibrosis gene therapy and the like.

Accordingly in some embodiments a combination of a smart inhaler device and an aerosol injection system can be used to implement the mechanisms for the control of inhalation waveform and particle release position. This modular concept allows for the accommodation of different aerosol sources e.g. JN DPI and pMDI as well as adaptation of different subject s breathing patterns. Suitable aerosol sources known in the art include but are not limited to jet and ultrasonic nebulizers which deliver drugs in form of small droplets or a mist suitable for single or multiple dose deep lung penetration of drugs by breath actuation. Further use of powder aerosols either loaded by the user into a dry powder inhaler DPI or stored in the device is another approach. In passive DPIs the motion of the inhaled air generates powder particle entrainment and breakup whereas in active DPIs stored energy e.g. blister packs assists during inhalation in drug powder dispersion Dunbar et al. 1998 .

The presently disclosed subject matter provides in some particular embodiments a smart inhaler system comprising an aerosol source an aerosol injection system and a smart inhaler device all in flow communication. In some embodiments the aerosol injection system and inhaler device are attached to a conventional drug aerosol source such as a JN a pMDI or a DPI.

The smart inhaler device can comprise an outer tube having an inlet at one end and an open outlet that can act as a mouth piece at an opposing end. The outer tube can further comprise one or more air inlet perforations which provide for passage of inhalation airflow into an interior of the outer tube.

In some embodiments based on in situ pressure measurements the optimal computationally predetermined inhalation waveform can be generated in real time utilizing an inhalation airflow control mechanism for varying a cross section of one or more of the outer tube air inlet perforations thereby permitting control of the inhalation airflow to generate the predetermined inhalation waveform within the inhaler device and in particular at the location of aerosol stream release. In some embodiments the inhalation airflow control mechanism comprises an actuated inner tube comprising air inlet perforations which slides relative to the perforations in the outer tube to vary the cross sections of the outer tube perforations.

The targeted drug aerosol stream release from a computationally predetermined position segment of the outlet cross section of the outer tube mouthpiece which can be selected based on a desired target area of the lung of a subject can be achieved in some embodiments with an adaptive nozzle positioned within the outer tube.

In some embodiments the adaptive nozzle comprises a nozzle tip outlet which can be deflected by one or more actuators and hence optimally positioned within the outer tube. In another embodiment targeted drug aerosol stream release can be achieved utilizing an adaptive nozzle with variable exit diameters and which is positioned substantially and in some embodiments perfectly parallel to the inhaler tube wall. Determination of targeted release positions from correlated positions on orbits with critical radii allows for constructing the nozzle so as to rotate around a central long axis and arrest on the selected orbits and at orbital locations see and Example 5 for example . Changes in nozzle exit diameter and orbital positioning can be implemented via various mechanisms. Non limiting examples for orbital positioning include ball and spring loaded disk ratchet or a precision gear mechanism. Different radial settings can achieve target specific orbits.

The computationally predetermined drug aerosol stream characteristics and release positions are a function of a subject s lung morphology type of drug and deposition site. As used herein the term subject refers to both human beings and animals e.g. mammalian subjects for medical veterinary testing and or screening purposes.

The inhaler device can also be equipped with one or more micropressure sensors to detect the inhalation waveform from inhalation airflow flowing through the outer tube which can be positioned in some embodiments proximal to the outer tube outlet such as for example in the outlet cross section. Exemplary micropressure sensors suitable for use with the presently disclosed inhaler device include but are not limited to silicon micromachined piezoresistive pressure sensing chips such as those available from Silicon Microstructures Inc. Milpitas Calif. U.S.A. . Based on this information the cross section of the air inlets can be varied such as by varying the position of the perforated inner sliding tube by actuators receiving a signal from the micropressure sensors to transform the initial inhalation airflow waveform into an inhalation waveform that corresponds to uniform laminar flow necessary for optimal air particle transport. In some embodiments the actuators vary the position of the inner tube to change the alignment of the inner tube air inlet perforations with the outer tube air inlet perforations to produce the desired inhalation waveform.

In some embodiments active materials can be utilized. Active materials include for example shape memory alloys SMA shape memory polymers piezoceramic materials or magnetostrictive materials for actuation and in some embodiments for sensing as well which allows for the development of highly integrated intelligent systems.

An illustrative example of actuation by active materials is the linear actuation capability of an SMA wire actuator. This material is known to exhibit the highest work output per volume of all known actuation mechanisms see e.g. Hollerbach et al. 1992 . It can easily be stretched at low temperatures but upon thermal activation which can be effected by low voltage electric power it contracts very much like a metal muscle . Thus it not only replaces an entire apparatus of gears and other transmission components but at the same time also provides high actuation force and stroke is lightweight and can easily be embedded into structures in a highly flexible way.

Moreover a prominent SMA nickel titanium alloy NiTi is known for its high biocompatibility and these attractive features have led to a number of applications in the biomedical field which range from already well established applications like stents and orthodontal braces Duerig et al. 1999 to more advanced systems like smart endoscopes actuated by SMA wires Reynaerts et al. 1999 and micro drug dosage systems based on SMA thin film pumps Benard et al. 1998 Makino et al. 2001 Xu et al. 2001 .

Now with reference to a particular embodiment of a smart inhaler device is shown. Inhaler device comprises an outer tube having an inlet at one end and an outlet at an opposing end of inhaler device . Outer tube can comprise a plurality of air inlet perforations through the wall of outer tube . Outer tube serves as a mouth piece in that a subject places their mouth against or over outlet and inhales drawing air through air inlet perforations to create an inhalation airflow through the interior of outer tube and into the subject s lungs.

An aerosol stream comprising an active agent is delivered from an aerosol source through an adaptive nozzle and into the inhalation airflow for targeted delivery to a target area of lung of the subject. As shown in adaptive nozzle is positioned within the interior of outer tube . Adaptive nozzle has a nozzle base inlet that sealingly engages outer tube inlet and a nozzle tip outlet that is in axial alignment with outer tube outlet . That is nozzle tip outlet has a long axis that is parallel to a long axis of outer tube which is perpendicularly bisected by outer tube outlet .

Nozzle base inlet can be positioned in flow communication directly or indirectly with an aerosol source. Nozzle tip outlet is positioned in proximity to outer tube outlet so that the aerosol stream is optimally merged with the inhalation airflow.

A sealing member connects nozzle base inlet with outer tube outlet to provide an airtight seal between outlet and nozzle base inlet . Sealing member can be a flexible polymeric O ring which can provide both sealing functionality and flexibility to provide mobility to adaptive nozzle within outer tube .

As previously disclosed the smart inhaler system can increase targeted deposition efficiencies over other inhalers known in the art in part through the controlled delivery of the aerosol stream into the inhalation airflow through calculated positioning of nozzle tip outlet within outer tube . Actuators can be utilized to position adaptive nozzle and in particular nozzle tip outlet to the desired optimum release position for delivery of the aerosol into the inhalation airflow. Due to space limitations present in some embodiments of inhaler device it can be desirable in some embodiments to utilize actuators comprising active materials. Exemplary active materials that can be utilized with the presently disclosed subject matter include but are not limited to shape memory alloys shape memory polymers magnetostrictive materials and piezoceramic materials. In some embodiments when shape memory alloys are employed an alloy of nickel and titanium NiTi can be utilized. As shown in shape memory alloys SMAs can be fabricated as wires such as for example FLEXINOL wires produced by Dynalloy Inc. Costa Mesa Calif. U.S.A. and thereby act as SMA actuators. For example as shown in the particular embodiment illustrated in a plurality of SMA actuators are operationally linked to adaptive nozzle near nozzle base inlet and to the inner wall of outer tube .

In the embodiment illustrated in a set of three SMA actuators are utilized only two of which are visible in to deflect the entire adapter nozzle to a desired position within outer tube . A second set of SMA actuator wires can further be utilized as shown in to further flex adaptive nozzle in combination with repositioning the entire structure of adaptive nozzle as accomplished by SMA actuators . Actuators can be axially bonded to adaptive nozzle along at least a portion of a long axis of adaptive nozzle and can therefore bend adaptive nozzle such that nozzle tip outlet remains axially aligned with outer tube outlet to ensure aerosol stream release is parallel to laminar flow the inhalation airflow.

To prevent premature mixing wall deposition or particle coagulation in some embodiments adaptive nozzle comprises a flexible material such as a flexible polymeric material to permit flexing of adaptive nozzle by actuators . Nozzle should present a reasonable compromise between a certain flexibility to enable the necessary deformation and sufficient stiffness to maintain the required shape in the airflow. One non limiting example of a suitable elastomeric material for use in the construction of flexible nozzle includes silicon rubber. It can be desirable to provide in some embodiments inner surfaces of adaptive nozzle and in some instances outer tube as well with higher finish tolerances in order to avoid problems with wall deposition of aerosol particles and turbulence effects. Alternatively or in combination the inner surfaces can be coated with compositions that facilitate reduction of turbulence and or aerosol deposition as generally known by those of skill in the art.

With reference now to A and B smart inhaler device can comprise in some embodiments an inner tube fitted within the interior of outer tube and slidingly engaging the inner surface wall of outer tube . Inner tube further comprises air inlet perforations that can align with outer tube air inlet perforations . One or more actuators shown as SMA actuators in are linked to inner tube . When activated SMA actuators can position inner tube such that the alignment of inner tube air inlet perforations are aligned or misaligned to varying degrees with outer tube air inlet perforations . By aligning or misaligning inner tube air inlet perforations with outer tube air inlet perforations the inlet cross section for air flowing into outer tube to create the inhalation airflow can be controlled depending on the measured and computational fluid particle dynamics CFPD predicted set point inhalation waveform. Thus regardless of the breath pattern of the subject utilizing smart inhaler device a desired inhalation waveform can be attained.

In some embodiments wherein SMA actuators operate under tension an external restoring force not shown can be utilized to return inner tube to its original position once actuators are turned off. In some embodiments the external restoring force is supplied by a spring washer against which the actuators work.

In some embodiments the smart inhaler system comprises inhaler device in flow communication with an aerosol injection system which in turn is in flow communication with an aerosol source. In some embodiments and as illustrated in the aerosol injection system can comprise a controllable reservoir chamber . In some embodiments controllable reservoir chamber through a system of microsized pressure sensors such as for example similar pressure sensors as utilized to measure the inhalation waveform and valves allows for the transformation of each aerosol source s input into a unified controlled state. The aerosol suspension is then directed through adaptive nozzle at nozzle base inlet and out through nozzle tip outlet where the aerosol stream is injected into the inhalation airflow flowing through the interior of outer tube . For example in some embodiments a microvalve e.g. a microvalve available from TiNi Alloy Inc. San Liandro Calif. U.S.A. can be incorporated into controllable reservoir . In some embodiments the microvalve uses a thin film SMA actuator.

In some embodiments an inlet microvalve is placed directly at a reservoir inlet where it controls entry of the aerosol from the aerosol source into controllable reservoir chamber . A pressure sensor that measures pressure within controllable reservoir chamber is also placed within active reservoir chamber . Depending on the pressure measured by the sensor reservoir chamber can include an outlet microvalve as well that can open an outlet of active reservoir chamber which connects with nozzle base inlet to maintain the level necessary for optimal aerosol injection into the inhalation airflow.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed smart inhaler system comprises a control logic that interlinks sensor signals with the corresponding actuator outputs. In some embodiments for example as can be seen in a signal from one or more micropressure sensors is transmitted to control logic which interprets signal and transmits an actuator control signal to one or more inner tube actuators which vary the position of inner tube to change the alignment of inner tube air inlet perforations with outer tube air inlet perforations thereby altering the inhalation waveform. In some embodiments control logic responds to signals not only from the micropressure sensors measuring inhalation waveforms but also from signals originating either from strain gauges or actuators themselves measuring nozzle or inner tube positioning. For example SMA actuators due to changes in resistivity can also act as sensors and therefore these data can be used to determine adaptive nozzle and inner tube positions before and after actuator changes.

Further control logic algorithm can be in operational communication with a computer model for fluid particle flow which provides computational fluid particle dynamics results that determine one or more of the desired inhalation waveforms and the desired position of adaptive nozzle and therefore prescribes the desired actuator set points to direct the active agent to the target area of the lung of the subject. In some embodiments the control approach is based on a standard proportional integral derivative PID algorithm. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that other algorithms can be suitable for use with the presently disclosed subject matter upon a review of the same.

The presently disclosed smart inhaler system through its modular structure can be used in a number of different applications. Such applications include clinical applications wherein the presently disclosed inhaler system can be integrated into stationary systems. The presently disclosed inhaler system also can be employed for personal use such as for use in portable asthma systems for example when combined with a microprocessor. Such inhaler systems for personal use are feasible through the miniaturization enabled by the use of shape memory alloys.

The following Examples have been included to illustrate modes of the presently disclosed subject matter. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill will appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Disclosed herein are methods and systems for providing controlled air particle streams where most of the drug aerosols reach the desired lung target area e.g. 45 92 based on simulations relying on computational fluid particle dynamics CFPD techniques. The methods and systems were successfully tested for microparticle targeting on a hemispherical tumor located in the third lung generation using a validated computer simulation model including consideration of optimal particle characteristics mouth release position and air particle velocities see for example Kleinstreuer Zhang 2003 . Further testing and validation in physical models utilizing embodiments of the smart inhaler system are disclosed in the Examples following.

In brief a suitable physical replica of the upper portion of a human respiratory system is designed and built and then the smart inhaler s ability to target specific regions of the lung for particle deposition is quantitatively measured. Although there is variability in exact lung morphology from person to person based on gender age size etc. the models built can be representative of a typical lung morphology. The advantage of a tightly coupled computational experimental approach is that controlled and reproducible experiments can be used to validate the computational models. The computational models can then be used in further assessments to explore the effects of lung morphology variations on particle trajectories and deposition together with clinical testing.

The lung replica and smart inhaler components are combined to show that individual branches of the simplified lung replica can be targeted. The computer prediction model is used to determine the aerosol release position and inlet flow conditions the nozzle system is used to adjust to the predicted position and a laser detection system measures aerosol concentration in each of the individual outlets to verify the ability to target individual branches in agreement with the model predictions.

The local deposition efficiency is also validated. To this end the focus can be on one particular branch of the system in which an artificial tumor of varying size is placed. The aerosol deposition on the artificial tumor is then predicted and measured.

The results of the CFPD simulations described herein illustrate the importance of particle characteristics the location of particle release and controlled inhalation waveform. Starting with the concept of optimal particle release position it has been combined with the advantages offered by shape memory alloys SMA as disclosed herein in order to design a smart inhaler device. The particle release at a controlled position is enabled in some embodiments by a shape memory actuated flexible adaptive nozzle. A and B illustrate the concept of the design showing the nozzle which can be deflected by three SMA wires in order to move the nozzle tip to an arbitrary position in the outer tube outlet cross section. The nozzle base is connected to the outer tube by an O ring providing sealing functionality and flexibility at the same time. A second set of SMA wires is incorporated into the nozzle and aligned along its long axis. This set of wires can bend the nozzle when contracted under controlled heating by an electric current and can thus compensate for the axial misalignment error produced by the nozzle tip deflection. This combination assures an aligned particle release avoiding undesirable mixing effects in this phase of the process.

A third set of SMA wires moves the perforated inner tube with respect to the fixed outer tube in order to adjust the inlet breath air. This part of the system can be used to control the inlet air.

The design of the adaptive nozzle is facilitated by extensive simulation in order to determine suitable geometry stiffness and in particular optimal actuator placement. A very efficient SMA model has been developed which includes an energy balance for full thermo mechanical coupling and therefore is particularly suited for the description of SMA actuators. The model has been further extended to apply to other active materials actuators like piezoceramics Smith et al. 2003 and magnetostrictives Smith et al. 2003 as well. The model provides guidance for real time optimal control for SMA actuators. Mueller Achenbach 1985 Mueller Achenbach 1989 Seelecke 1999 Seelecke Papenfuss 1999 Seelecke et al. 2001 .

For the purpose of structural simulation a finite element formulation of this model has been developed and successfully implemented into the commercial finite element code ANSYS Seelecke Papenfuss 2000 Frautschi Seelecke 2003 . Although there is a relatively small number of other FE implementations of SMA models published in the art these are purely isothermal focusing on the reproduction of uncontrolled processes and thus do not allow to simulate the behavior of a structure with a SMA actuator. An overview of simulation and controls aspects of SMA actuators in smart systems is disclosed in the review article of Seelecke Mueller 2004 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

To guide the design process a series of finite element simulations can be performed. ANSYS can be used as a platform which allows for geometry import from the 3D solid modeling program used for the smart inhaler system design. The adaptive nozzle can be modeled by appropriate shell elements and for the SMA wires the FE implementation of a version of the Mueller Achenbach model can be used. This combination allows for a realistic determination of the time dependent nozzle deflection together with the necessary forces and related energy consumption.

The open loop behavior of several embodiments of the adaptive nozzle can also be investigated. Specifically the x y displacement of the nozzle tip in the plane of the outer tube outlet cross section can be measured. Non contact laser sensors and camera based methods can be utilized for this purpose. The above measurements can be performed on different embodiments of the adaptive nozzle in order to provide feedback for improvement of both simulations and prototype building.

Further the sensor capabilities of the SMA materials can be investigated at the same time. In addition to the actuator properties due to the temperature induced contraction the SMA wires also exhibit a change in electrical resistivity see . This can be used for sensing purposes making the material truly multi functional. A plot of deformation vs. resistivity reveals that the hysteresis can be eliminated yielding a unique relation between stroke and resistivity. See . This feature has received relatively little attention in the art so far except for e.g. Pitschellis 1998 but it is inherently attractive for the simple reason that there is no need for an additional sensor to determine nozzle and inner tube positions. This becomes particularly important as the non contact sensors used for initial evaluation can be too big to be incorporated in a miniature system and other types of devices introduce additional complexity.

A device was constructed to develop and verify the algorithms disclosed herein. It comprises an electrically driven SMA wire connected to an elastic cantilevered steel beam. The device can be filled with a fluid in order to achieve higher frequencies due to the improved cooling.

The experimental model of the human respiratory system utilized for laboratory testing of the smart inhaler system can include highly detailed oral airways pharynx larynx and trachea for verification of the CFPD predictions and smart inhaler. The flow from the trachea can be divided non equally into the left 40 and right 60 primary bronchi. Attached to the right primary bronchus can be a four generation planar upper bronchi section or a fully three dimensional upper bronchi section. This laboratory model permits the measurement of flow characteristics and particle depositions.

To accurately simulate various modes of breathing a sophisticated airflow delivery system can be constructed to generate a wide range of inhalation profiles permitting the investigation of profiles from rest breathing to hypernea. In the following sections the three different sections of the laboratory lung model are described in detail followed by a description of the existing airflow delivery system. A brief overview of the diagnostic tools to be employed for the measurement of velocity profiles and particle depositions is also included.

The experimental investigations can be tightly coupled with the computations and development of the smart inhaler. An objective of the experimental measurements is to confirm the ability of the smart inhaler to control the trajectory and hence the deposition location of the drug aerosols. One exemplary measurement of significance in the present Example is the particle flux through each of the sixteen bronchi exits. Particle flux measurements can be used to validate the computational code. Once the computational code is validated for various breathing modes without the smart inhaler the inhaler can be added to the geometry. Using the CFD code to guide the smart inhaler deflection particle flux measurements can be made to validate the smart inhaler s ability to control the placement of pharmaceutical agents.

Supplying the smart inhaler and hence the human upper airways is a precisely regulated and filtered airflow system. The upper bronchi models can be incased in an air tight vessel upon which a vacuum can be pulled. A calibrated mass flow meter can be used to control the airflow rate into the oral and or nasal cavity nominally 10 to 60 standard liters per minute. Between the air tight vessel and the mass flow meters the airflow can enter into a large plenum. Mounted on two sides of this plenum are large diameter solid cone loudspeakers that are driven by an amplified frequency generator. The loudspeakers act as pistons and the resulting boundary movement causes a variation in the conducting zone inlet flow rate.

Thus an average mass flux can be maintained with a prescribed oscillation superimposed upon the flow to simulate the time dependant nature of actual inhalation modes e.g. normal pathological light and heavy exercise. This oscillation has been shown to affect particle deposition in the airway Finlay and Gehmlich 2000 . A high wattage solid cone loudspeaker driven with a reasonable amplifier is sufficient to mimic the 3 5 mm Hg intrapulmonary pressure experienced in the lungs.

To better simulate human breathing a voltage time profile can be generated on a PC supplied to the loudspeakers via an analog I O board and linear amplifier. Using a PC with LABVIEW software National Instruments Corp Austin Tex. U.S.A. virtually any breathing mode can be simulated. If the loud speakers are not sufficient to generate desired a linear motor with feedback control can be utilized instead. Loud speakers are capable of developing small pressure differentials whereas a linear motor is capable of generating 100 kPa of pressure with millisecond time response.

Based on the measured geometric shape of the human oral nasal passage from actual castings of adult human airways Cheng et al. 1999 a rigid passageway can be constructed of plexiglass cross sections which mimics the actual upper conducting zone very accurately. By seeding the inlet airflow with monodispersed particles particle size dependant fluxes throughout the upper conducting zone can be measured. Constructing the Inlet to Trachea Outlet submodel of stacked cross sectional pieces allows the model to be sectionalized and permit the exit velocity profile to be measured at any location in the submodel by removing the downstream sections this can be done via Particle Image Velocimetry and used to validate the computational code . This can allow proper velocity field characterization at three or more locations the entrance to the pharynx the entrance to the larynx and the exit of the upper trachea.

By using a planar velocity measurement technique that is able to collect the entire flow field instantaneously time resolved velocity measurements can be made as a function of the temporal location within the prescribed inhalation mode. Particle flux measurements can also be made simultaneously with the velocity measurements. By assuring a uniform particle seeding density at the inlet to this submodel particle flux measurements downstream of the inlet can provide information on the particle dynamics and transport through the airways of the upper conducting zone.

If the particles inhaled are not monodisperse which is true of all real therapeutic drug aerosols then it can be desirable to understand the possible effects of particle size on transport through the mouth larynx and trachea and into the lung.

To model this effect accurately experimental validation of computational codes can be performed. This Mouth Trachea submodel can be an ideal code validation tool. Monodisperse particle densities can be determined at the same time that the velocity field is measured using particle image velocimetry PIV . However to measure the density of a polydisperse particle field particle sizing must be done. This can be accomplished with point measurements using a laser scattering interferometer. The entire field does not need to be mapped the regions of particular interest can be identified from the planar particle density measurements obtained from the PIV measurements.

Additional submodels utilized can be experimental devices that allow the measurement of particle fluxes through the bronchi. An upper bronchi model can be planar in geometry with symmetric bifurcations corresponding to the Weibel distributions. A fully three dimensional lung model that contains four generations of bifurcations after the first split between right and left primary bronchus can also be constructed. The right primary bronchus can be developed into the subsequent generations due to its larger volumetric flow rate and the fact that particle deposition is more likely in this bronchus due to its more vertical position. The left primary bronchus and the sixteen bronchi outlets can each be exposed to the sub atmospheric pressures generated in the air tight volume.

The planar symmetric model can be constructed with glass tubes allowing visualization of particle deposition. The diameter of each tube throughout the four generations can be based on the measurements of Weibel 1963 . The initial diameter representing the trachea can be 18 mm with an unsymmetrical initial bifurcation into the left and right primary bronchus. The right primary bronchus can have a diameter of 12.2 mm. All succeeding bifurcations can be symmetric with a final tube diameter of 3.5 mm.

The more realistic upper bronchi model can be fully three dimensional and asymmetric. Out of plane effects can be quantifiable by varying the degree of departure from two dimensional in the various generations.

Particle Image Velocimetry PIV is a planar velocity measurement technique that provides nearly instantaneous velocity fields. The technique employs multiple scatterings of laser light off seed particles. In one PIV technique the second harmonic radiation 532 nm from a pair of Nd YAG lasers is formed into sheets of light which are overlapped in space and offset in time by an adjustable amount. The two Nd YAG lasers are housed in a single laser head facilitating alignment. Each Nd YAG laser is capable of producing 25 millijoule mJ in the green in a 8 nanosecond ns pulse. The scattered laser light is captured on a Kodak large array 1K by 1K digital interline transfer camera specifically designed for PIV measurements. With this experimental setup the first laser pulse scatters light off seeded hollow spheres and is captured by the digital camera located normal to the sheet. The camera stores this image on the chip and then captures the second laser pulse which is delayed from a few to a few hundred microseconds depending upon the mean velocity. The image pair is then downloaded and a cross correlation technique is used to match up particle pairs which then yield velocity vectors. The advantage of PIV over other velocity measurement techniques is that it measures the entire planar velocity field nearly instantaneously. The advantage of this particular experimental setup is that there is no velocity ambiguity and stagnation flows are resolvable.

The particle flux measurements can be made by Mie scattering laser light off the particles as they exit the bronchi tube. This scattered light can be collected via a lens coupled photomultiplier tube. The intensity of the scattered light can be a quantitative measure of the number of particles passing through the laser probe volume. This is a time resolved measurement and allows the particle flux to be measured throughout the inhalation cycle. This quantitative information can provide validation of the computational code.

One goal of the CFPD analysis is to provide particle characteristics and air particle flow data sets which lead to a smart inhaler system for substantially maximum drug delivery. This can be facilitated by the accurate simulation of air particle flow in representative human airway models. With the experimentally validated computer simulation model optimal inhaler outlet conditions equal to the desired mouth inlet conditions can be determined for both the laboratory replica and representative upper airway configurations. The fluid particle dynamics inside the inhaler system including possible aerosol deposition can be more effectively visualized and measured via a segmental mass balance in the laboratory.

In order to capture the isothermal airflow pattern in realistic upper lung airways and to check for possibly transitional airflow i.e. the laminar to turbulent flow regimes the low Reynolds number LRN k model of Wilcox 1998 has been selected and adapted. It has been demonstrated that the modified LRN k model is appropriate for such internal flows Zhang Kleinstreuer 2003a . All air transport equations including the heat transfer equation as well as initial and boundary conditions are given in Zhang Kleinstreuer 2003a b and Kleinstreuer Zhang 2003 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

As part of these Examples different types of inhalation conditions especially particle size particle density particle release position and inhalation waveform can be considered. The laboratory airway replicas including oral cavity pharynx larynx and tracheobronchial airways as provided herein can be used to generate meshes for the air particle flow simulations. In addition three different airway cast models can be selected to give information to investigate inter subject variations. The boundary conditions for different surface and wall configurations e.g. roughness effects cartilageous rings mucus film etc. including constant or variable temperature conditions cf. Daviskas et al. 1990 Morris 1988 among others can be implemented. The optimal fluid particle stream and maximum aerosol deposition analyses can provide the actual inhaler air particle exit conditions and can be used in the laboratory as mouth inlet conditions.

The airway wall structure equations utilized are the standard conditions of equilibrium stress strain relations and conditions of compatibility see for example Ugural Fenster 1995 or Fung 1994 . Wall material properties and airway expansion measurements are given in Fung 1981 and Kamm 1999 . Computational fluid structure interaction simulations can be readily implemented.

See Zhang et al. J. Aerosol Science 2005 vol. 36 pp. 211 233 for governing transport equations boundary conditions and solution procedure including computer model validations.

The numerical solutions of the continuity momentum and turbulence transport equations along with scalar advection equations can be carried out with a parallelized finite volume based code CFPD code which was developed especially for laminar transitional turbulent flows in bio fluid applications. The numerical program uses a structured multiblock body fitted coordinate discretization scheme. The complex meshes are generated with GRIDPRO PDC White Plains N.Y. U.S.A. . High resolution upwinding techniques can be used to model the advective terms of the transport equations. To achieve higher order spatial accuracy interface flux reconstruction can be performed using either second order total variation diminishing TVD or third order fifth order in smooth regions weighted essentially non oscillatory WENO interpolations of the solution variables. Any inhalation waveform can be accommodated including aerosol inhaler outlet conditions.

The particle transport equations can be solved with an off line F90 code with parallelized algorithms Longest et al. 2004 .

The airway geometries can include the oral cavity pharynx larynx trachea and 13 generations of bronchi G G . Comparisons of the deposition efficiencies between the numerical simulations and experimental observations i.e. mouth to G can be made to verify the computer model. Once the validity of the numerical technique is established the numerical simulation of the conducting airway can be extended to generation G considering both symmetric Weibel configurations for ease of model validation and international data transfer as well as asymmetric configurations as tabulated by Raabe et al. 1976 Horsefield et al. 1971 and Ley et al. 2002 among others. Geometric variations can also be included for double and triple bifurcations cf. Corner et al. 2001 a b Zhang Kleinstreuer 2002 Zhang et al. 2001 .

Additional airway features to be considered include cartilaginous rings especially in the trachea shape and openings of vocal folds and movement of liquid mucus layers. The simulations of airflow and particle deposition in parallel and series with triple bifurcation unit are proposed to consider as completely as possible the geometric effects due to intra and inter subject variability particle characteristics as well as inlet conditions obtained from the exit of inhalers or the upstream airway units. Clearly particles which make it past G deposit either in the alveolar region or are being exhaled.

Appropriate particle release locations and timing suitable particle characteristics and an ideal inhalation waveform can transport drug aerosols on a case by case basis to desired lung target areas. shows the present methodology in virtual reality for normal vs. controlled micro particle releases from Generation and the mouth via a back tracking method disclosed in detail hereinbelow . Specifically in selecting micro particles i.e. 5 d 7 m and strictly laminar flow quasi deterministic particle trajectories can be achieved hence airway landing area and particle release position at the aerosol delivery entrance correlated directly.

In reality variations in lung morphology breathing mode particle size and specific lung target area for drug aerosol deposition complicate the task of achieving a controlled air particle stream which results in optimal drug aerosol deposition. These variations can be addressed at least in part by considering the following exemplary criteria 

In order to accommodate different airway geometries e.g. children adults the elderly and to be able to target different desirable lung areas the mouthpiece cross section outer tube outlet can be for example divided into eight particle release sections that allow for targeting of for example G G or G G independently see . Alternatively or in combination critical radii can be utilized as disclosed hereinbelow to position aerosol stream release. The back tracking methodology as well as trial and error runs can match the optimal release segment with maximum deposition in the predetermined target region. Some well defined particle release areas see striped regions can be always excluded because aerosols from such locations deposit typically in the oral airway.

To address b the correct effective diameter and density of probably solid spherical micro particles can be determined to achieve the goal of maximum drug aerosol deposition.

Regarding c any active or passive inhalation waveform generated by a patient or an existing device pMDI DPI or SMI can be modified. Specifically a laminar flow Q 15 L min and a rectangular i.e. uniform inhalation waveform can be objectives to generate the highest deposition results.

In summary the exit conditions of a smart inhaler system can be determined which for example could be attached to off the shelf inhalers. A smart inhaler system disclosed herein can ultimately i modify a given waveform or air stream to an ideal e.g. uniform and strictly laminar waveform and ii direct and concentrate the drug aerosol stream to the test release section in order to achieve maximum deposition in the desired lung target area.

An objective of the present Example is to fabricate a smart inhaler system disclosed herein and to set up an experimental facility to validate in the laboratory the computer simulations. For this purpose a replica of the human lung comprising a glass model which starts from the oral airways and continues all the way to the fifth generation lung structure was constructed. The smart inhaler system was implemented into this glass model and laser based Mie scattering imagery was used to visualize the particles at various outlets.

In the first phase of the present Example attention was confined to the steady case where a continuous air stream was directed through a lung box to which various components of a glass model of the airway system can be attached. In order to track the potential dispersion of injected particles with the travel distance several straight glass tubes of various lengths were used 5 cm 15 cm and 20 cm along with a 90 degree bend and a 1 1 model of the human oral airway system. Particles are injected initially through a small seeding tube in the outlet cross section of the lung box. The tube can be placed at any desired or arbitrary position in the cross section.

A laser sheet is then formed at the outlet cross section of the various components and Mie scattering provides an instantaneous image of the particle locations. The above system was used initially to optimize the set up of the laser system and image acquisition along with the seeding system for the particles. Initially spherical particles obtained from the burning of incense with a nominal diameter of 0.6 m used. A new seeding system yielding a wide range of sizes and distributions can be used to accurately simulate a wide variety of pharmaceutical agents. For example polystyrene spheres of various diameters can be utilized.

In a second phase of the present Example the initial seeding system was then replaced by a nozzle injector which had been fabricated using rapid prototyping technology. This first nozzle generation features a static yet deformed shape such that the outlet cross section is off center. Rotation of the nozzle allows adjusting to several different release locations along the perimeter of a circle. Results of the computer modeling simulations and laboratory experiments are disclosed as follows.

The first objective is to show that particles do not disperse over the entire airway cross section but rather stay confined so that they can potentially be directed to desired deposition areas. The second objective is to show that variations in the release position have a deterministic effect on the trajectory of these particles such that their deposition area can in effect be predicted.

For this purpose stationary experiments were performed at various airflow rates ranging from 40 standard liters per minute slpm down to 8 slpm. The injection of the particles was velocity matched to this co flow to minimize the effect of shear layers which are expected to lead to premature dispersion. At higher flow rates transition to turbulent flow can occur which also leads to undesired dispersion.

For each flow rate the particle behavior was studied for a variety of glass pipes of different length in order to document the amount of dispersion as a function of the travel distance. A portion of the large body of results are disclosed below.

When particle injection occurs at a top region of the inlet cross section for an air flow rate of 12 slpm after 20 cm through a straight pipe the particles are still very close together and almost no dispersion was observed. After a 90 degree bend the particles were slightly driven to the outside due to the action of centrifugal forces but they were still very coherent. After the particles had traveled roughly 40 cm and passed several cross section variations a flattened shape was observed. However it is noteworthy that the particles were still coherent and had not dispersed over the cross section at all.

The flow rate of 12 slpm also represents the case where the peak Reynolds number exceeds the value of 1800 in the larynx potentially causing transition to turbulent flow in the trachea.

A similar trend was observed for the case of release at a bottom region of the inlet cross section. Here the particles stayed even closer together. It is worth noting that it was possible to not only prevent dispersion of particles but importantly to also control the trajectory of the particles even over great distances downstream through the choice of release location.

The results from the laboratory experiments confirmed the general feasibility of the method. Further implementations can utilize predictions from numerical simulations to increase the accuracy of targeted delivery. Exemplary calculations were run with the CFD code CFX 4 and an in house particle tracking code and results for the 8 slpm case are disclosed below.

The comparisons between the simulated and measured particle distributions with different inlet release positions for the oral airway model are shown in assuming a steady inspiratory flow rate of 8 slpm and a spherical particle diameter of 1 m. 1000 particles were released at the oral inlet. In a comparison of the simulated results for top and bottom release shown in respectively with the experimental results for top and bottom release shown in respectively the simulated particle distributions agree well with the experimental visualizations.

This effect becomes even clearer for the case of the oral airway model with the first bifurcation attached to it B of . compare three cases which differ only by the angular position of the nozzle in the mouth inlet cross section . In the left column of particles are released at an angle of 60 with the vertical and occur exclusively in the left branch of the first bifurcation as seen in while the right column release at 240 shows the opposite result as seen in . The center column documents that this behavior can be finely controlled to the degree that a fraction of the particles occurs in each branch .

Minor discrepancies may be attributed to i slight differences in inlet release positions between the simulations and experiments ii differences in visualization locations iii differences in the geometries for example there is a transition tube in the experimental setup and the airway geometry becomes slightly different after manufacturing and iv the difference in particle size i.e. particle distributions are sensitive to factors i and ii .

It is further important to note that the two documented release locations termed top and bottom have received their names because of the specific orientation of the oral airway system which is positioned in the horizontal plane in order to simplify the imaging system set up. In a real human lung however these would be left and right hand side respectively and hence the above experiments have also shown that it is clearly possible to target right and left lobe of the lung separately.

Additionally it can be seen from the results that as a by product of the controlled air particle stream release wall deposition in the critical oral airway region has been virtually eliminated. This feature can considerably improve targeted deposition efficiency and reduce significantly potential side effects.

In summary this Example illustrates the capabilities of the smart inhaler system to enable targeted treating of lung cancer as well as a number of other respiratory diseases. A number of additional therapeutic applications such as insulin for diabetics inflammation treatments blood disorders pain management chemotherapy gene manipulation etc. are also possible utilizing the presently disclosed smart inhaler system.

As confirmed by experimental visualizations disclosed hereinabove micro particle trajectories can be tracked and are controllable under laminar flow conditions. Thus given suitable air inhalation waveforms particle characteristics and particle release positions the therapeutic aerosols inhaled via a smart inhaler system can reach the targeted lung areas at large mass fractions to effectively combat different diseases. In turn deposition of aggressive drugs on healthy lung tissue is avoided.

The adaptive nozzle disclosed herein has thus far been utilized in the above Examples to target particle release. In an alternative embodiment the concept of orbital point release with critical radii is introduced and tested with CFPD simulations in the present Example. It is noted however that although the orbital point release methodology can be implemented utilizing targeted release mechanisms other than the adaptive nozzle disclosed herein the presently disclosed subject matter is not intended to be limited thus but rather the present subject matter specifically includes implementing the orbital point release methodology utilizing the presently disclosed adaptive nozzle as well as other targeted delivery mechanisms.

An upper airway model see comprising an oral airway cast replica and Weibel Type A triple bifurcation lung airways representing generations G trachea to G was employed to investigate the inhalation and transport of drug aerosols.

The airflow and particle transport were simulated with a commercial finite volume code CFX4 ANSYS Inc. Canonsburg Pa. U.S.A. and an in house off line F90 particle trajectory code. The computations were conducted on an IBM p575 machine with multiple POWER5 processors IBM Armonk N.Y. U.S.A. .

The comparisons between the simulated and measured particle distributions with different inlet release positions for the oral airway model were utilized as disclosed in detail in Example 4 and shown in . Additional computer model validations and relevant applications can be found in Kleinstreuer Zhang 2003 as well as Zhang et al. 2002f 2005 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The specific inlet positions of aerosols which land on different targeted sites are determined via back tracking and then release controlled air particle streams are generated so that most aerosols deposit in the desired lung regions e.g. inflamed left or right lower airways etc.

Release positions of particles deposited in the upper airways as well as those which exit airways of generation G vary depending in part on particle diameter d . Simulations were run with Q 8 L min and d 7 10 or 20 m. The depositions of particles with d 7 and 10 m are minor in the upper airways due to relatively low inertial impaction. Most of them can enter the deeper lung regions. In general particles released from the left and right sides of the circular mouth entrance enter the left and right lungs respectively. However the inlet positions of particles leaving different portions of G vary irregularly due to the effects of secondary flows.

If the targeted regions are located in the upper airways larger size particles e.g. 20 m can be employed to enhance the deposition when utilizing a low inhalation flow rate e.g. 8 L min .

It has been determined as disclosed herein that particles released from different fixed regions can enter different parts of the lower airways i.e. after G . Targeting can be achieved by calculated positioning and aligning an adaptive nozzle disclosed herein in the inhalation tube for different patients and diseases. Positioning can be potentially simplified by calculated particle release from orbital points i.e. from circles with critical radii. In this case a tube aligned nozzle with adjustable outlet diameters can rotate following the predetermined orbit of a critical radius see . The nozzle can be positioned at a specific angle or orbit location so that most of the released particles can reach the desired areas.

As an example the targeted regions for inlet release positions to as shown in are the four outlets in the lower airways after generation G see Table 1 and . Particles leaving from G and G may enter side and central parts of the left lung respectively while they transport into side and central portions of the right lung after exiting from G and G see . Specifically with the controlled inlet points the capture efficiency of particle deposition in the targeted areas can increase from about 10 to 60 100 see Table 1 .

Distributions of particles entering targeted outlet airways are depicted in . Some particle dispersion occurs for Inlet Positions to because of the influence of secondary flows. In contrast Inlet Position is located in a larger particle release area reaching the G airway outlet without any local dispersion. Dispersion can further be decreased when using drug aerosols with attractive surface charges properties.

As disclosed herein a specific disease lung tumor location and or suitable treatment determine the desired lung target site or region. Some of these predetermined deposition areas can be reached as demonstrated in and Table 1. Implementation can be achieved as follows.

A nozzle with variable exit diameter and substantially or in some cases perfectly parallel to the inhaler tube wall rotates and arrests on selected orbits and at orbital points see for example . Changes in nozzle exit diameter and orbital positioning can be implemented via various mechanisms. Examples for varying the nozzle exit diameter include SMA ring wire control near the flexible nozzle tip or mechanical camera like nozzle aperture changes. Examples for orbital positioning include ball and spring loaded disk ratchet or a precision gear mechanism. Different radial settings achieve target specific orbits.

The references listed below as well as all references cited in the specification are incorporated herein by reference to the extent that they supplement explain provide a background for or teach methodology techniques and or compositions employed herein.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the present subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

