---

title: Long life lithium batteries with stabilized electrodes
abstract: The present invention relates to non-aqueous electrolytes having electrode stabilizing additives, stabilized electrodes, and electrochemical devices containing the same. Thus the present invention provides electrolytes containing an alkali metal salt, a polar aprotic solvent, and an electrode stabilizing additive. In certain electrolytes, the alkali metal salt is a bis(chelato)borate and the additives include substituted or unsubstituted linear, branched or cyclic hydrocarbons comprising at least one oxygen atom and at least one aryl, alkenyl or alkynyl group. In other electrolytes, the additives include a substituted aryl compound or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl compound wherein the additive comprises at least one oxygen atom. There are also provided methods of making the electrolytes and batteries employing the electrolytes. The invention also provides for electrode materials. Cathodes of the present invention may be further stabilized by surface coating the particles of the spinel or olivine with a material that can neutralize acid or otherwise lessen or prevent leaching of the manganese or iron ions. In some embodiments the coating is polymeric and in other embodiments the coating is a metal oxide such as ZrO, TiO, ZnO, WO, AlO, MgO, SiO, SnOAlPO, Al(OH), a mixture of any two or more thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09012096&OS=09012096&RS=09012096
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09012096
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060124
---
This application is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 857 365 filed May 28 2004 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 647 361 filed Jan. 26 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to non aqueous electrolytes comprising electrode stabilizing additives stabilized electrodes and electrochemical devices containing the same. In particular the invention relates to long life lithium batteries with stabilized spinel olivine or other electrodes.

Lithium ion batteries utilize carbon anodes lithiated transition metal oxide cathodes and an organic based solvent electrolyte with a dissolved conducting salt such as lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF . These batteries currently dominate the battery market in the area of cellular phones cam recorders computers and other electronic equipment. However attempts to apply these battery technologies to electric and hybrid vehicles have met with limited success. Problematic areas include safety calendar life cost and in the case of hybrid vehicles high rate capability for power assist and regenerative braking.

Lithium manganese oxide spinel based electrodes have drawn enormous attention as a cathode material since the Mn is less expensive compared to the Co and Ni that are currently being used in the commercial Li ion cells. Mn also has far better power is safer and is environmentally benign. However the poor capacity retention fading of LiMnOspinel has been a major drawback of this technology and has prevented its wide acceptance by manufacturers for commercialization. Moreover the deterioration of its electrochemical performance including capacity loss impedance rise and material instability is far more severe at higher temperatures above 40 50 C. that can easily be reached in portable electronic devices or hybrid electric vehicles. Although several factors have been reported to be responsible for the electrochemical degradation of the spinel based cells it is generally attributed to the instability of manganese spinel. This degradation likely results from the formation and dissolution of manganese ions in the organic based electrolyte.

The dissolution of the manganese originates from the instability of the manganese III ions on the surface of the manganese spinel electrode during cycling in the LiPFbased organic electrolyte that is used in nearly all commercial Li ion batteries today. The manganese III instability results from the disproportionation reaction that occurs on the surface of the spinel electrode 2Mn Mn Mn . The Mn ions that are formed dissolve in the LiPF containing organic electrolyte. Thereafter the dissolved manganese ions diffuse through the electrolyte to the graphite anode where they are likely reduced to manganese metal and deposited on the anode surface. This phenomenon results in a huge increase in the impedance of the anode and a loss of active lithium from the cell as well as the degradation of the spinel cathode. The result is a cell with poor electrochemical performance and little or no power.

In addition manganese dissolution has been attributed to acid attack and occurs even with trace levels of HF commonly present in LiPF based electrolytes. Together with the manganese ion diffusion problem as mentioned above the presence of acid such as HF causes formation of a partially protonated MnOphase. This phase is not totally electrochemically active since the protons are bonded to octahedral oxygen sites of the cubic close packed oxygen array of MnO. This scenario suggests that with the manganese dissolution there is also the partial protonation of the MnOthat leads to the deterioration of manganese spinel cathode material.

Since its introduction by Padhi et al. A. K. Padhi K. S. Nanjundaswamy J. B. Goodenough J. Electrochem. Soc. 144 4 1188 1997 LiFePOolivine material has become one of the most studied cathodes for lithium ion battery LIB applications. Unlike many cathodes the electrochemistry of this material involves the Fe Fe redox couple which occurs at a voltage of 3.45 V and has a theoretical capacity of 170 mAh g. Discharged and charged positive active materials LiFePOand FePO respectively have the same structural arrangement i.e. same space group and close crystalline parameters leading to very good system stability during the electrochemical cycling process. This stability is not altered by Fe ion generation in contrast to the highly oxidizing Ni ions that are involved in the charging of LiMO M Ni Co layered material. In addition the cutoff voltage of 3.45 V is low enough to prevent the acceleration of electrolyte aging but not so low as to sacrifice the energy density or electrochemical performance of the olivine. Moreover LiFePOis an inexpensive material non toxic and environmentally benign. For these reasons LiFePOhas been considered as a potentially attractive cathode material for LIB.

However LiFePOis an insulating material which seriously limits its rate capability and thus its calendar life. Although extensive work has been conducted recently to enhance the electronic conductivity of the material much room for improvement exists.

To prevent degradation of the cathode material several approaches have been attempted including cationic substitution of manganese or surface modification coatings of the spinel cathode or of graphite anode surfaces. See e.g. C. Sigala A. et al. 148 A826 2001 . I. J. Davidson et al. 54 205 1995 M. Yoshio et al. 101 79 2001 and A. M. Kannan and A. Manthiram 5 A167 2002 . While these methods have shown some promise at room temperature none have prevented significant electrochemical deterioration due to the manganese dissolution at elevated temperatures. See e.g. A. Blyr et al. 145 194 1998 and G. G. Amatucci et al. 148 A171 2001 . Accordingly there is a need in the art to develop electrolyte systems that protect the cathode surface from any unwanted reactions. Furthermore there is a need in the art for batteries using such electrolyte systems.

In one aspect the invention provides non aqueous electrolyte solutions containing one or more electrode stabilizing additives for use in electrochemical devices. In another aspect there are provided stabilized electrodes and battery cells incorporating the stabilized electrolytes. The batteries have excellent specific power and energy as well as extended calendar and cycle life across a broad temperature range with little or no power or capacity loss. In yet another aspect there are provided methods of making the stabilized electrolytes of the invention. The non aqueous electrolytes of the present invention containing such stabilization additives are effective in enhancing the performance of both spinel based and olivine based lithium ion batteries as well as that of lithium cobalt oxide lithium nickel cobalt oxide and lithium vanadium oxide lithium ion cells and the like.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention there are provided electrolytes that include an alkali metal salt such as a lithium chelato borate a polar aprotic solvent and an electrode stabilizing additive that is a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon comprising at least one oxygen atom and at least one aryl alkenyl or alkynyl group. The electrolytes are substantially non aqueous i.e. the electrolytes contain either no water or almost no water e.g. 100 ppm water . The electrode stabilizing additive can contain 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 or more oxygen atoms. In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive has 1 or more alkenyl groups and in others 1 or 2 alkenyl groups.

As employed herein substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbons include linear or branched alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups and cyclic groups such as cycloalkyl groups saturated and unsaturated heterocyclyl groups aryl groups and heteroaryl groups. Cyclic groups of the invention include mono bi and polycyclic groups which may be fused or bridged but are not spirocyclic. In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive may be capable of forming a passivating film on the surface of an electrode through thermal or electrochemical decomposition. In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive comprises one or two substituted or unsubstituted aryloxy groups.

Exemplary electrode stabilizing additives include vinyl ethylene carbonate divinyl ethylene carbonate vinyl carbonate divinyl carbonate vinyl crotonate aryloxycrotonate 2 4 divinyl isooxazole 3 5 divinyl furoate 2 4 divinyl 1 3 dioxane divinyl crotonate divinylpyrazine vinyl ethylene silicate aryloxy ethylene silicate divinyl ethylene silicate vinyl ethylene sulfate aryloxy ethylene sulfate divinyl ethylene sulfate 2 vinyloxy cyclopropanone vinylethylene oxide vinylcylopropanone 3 vinyloxetane 3 vinyltetrahydrofuran 4 vinyltetrahydropyran 3 vinylcyclobutanone vinyl butyrolactone dihydropyran 3 one 2 amino 4 vinylcyclobutanone 3 vinylaziridin 2 one 3 vinyloxaziridine 2 amino 3 vinylcyclopropanone 2 amino 5 vinylcyclopentanone 3 vinylazetidin 2 one 3 vinylcyclopentanone 5 vinylpiperidin 3 one 2 amino 3 vinylcyclohexanone 1 vinylazetidin 2 one 3 N vinylamino cyclohexanone 2 vinyl 1 2 oxazetidine 3 vinylpyrrolidin 2 one 1 vinylpyrrolidin 2 one 1 vinylpiperidin 2 one 2 vinylaminocyclopropanone 1 vinylaziridin 2 one oxiranylvinylamine oxetan 2 yl vinylamine tetrahydro furan 2 yl vinylamine 2 vinylaminocyclohexanol 2 aryloxy cyclopropanone divinyl phenyl carbonate aryloxy phenyl carbonate vinyl methacrylate aryloxy methacrylate diphenyl divinyl silicate divinyl furan 4 4 divinyl 3 dioxolan 2 one vinyl 2 furoate aryloxy 2 furoate divinyl propylene carbonate divinyl butyl carbonate divinyl ether 1 3 butadiene carbonate divinyl diphenyl ether diaryloxy diphenyl ether vinyl ethylene sulfite aryloxy ethylene sulfite divinyl ethylene sulfite diaryloxy ethylene sulfite 4 allylanisole divinyl methylphosphate 1 2 divinyl furoate allylglycidyl ether butadiene monoxide vinyl phosphate aryloxy phosphate vinyl cyclopentanone aryloxy cyclopentanone vinyl methyl carbonate allylanisole methyl phosphate ethyl phosphate vinyl ethyl 2 furoate aryloxy ethyl 2 furoate divinyl methoxypyrazine aryloxy pyrazine vinylmethoxy pyrrole aryloxpyrrole butyl vinyl ether butyl aryloxy ether divinyl methoxybipyridine methoxy o terphenyl aryloxy o terphenyl 3 4 divinyl 1 methyl pyrrole methoxy 4 vinylbiphenyl 1 divinylimidazole vinyl methoxy imidazole aryloxyimidazole methoxy carbazole aryloxy carbazole vinyl methoxy carbazole aryloxy carbazole trivinylphosphate vinyl tetrahydrofuran aryloxy tetrahydrofuran 2 vinyloxetane aryloxyoxetane divinyl methoxy furan diaryloxy furan vinyl pyridazine aryloxy pyridazine vinyl methoxyquinoline aryloxy quinoline vinyl methoxy piperidine aryloxy piperidine vinyl methoxypyrazine vinyl methoxy tetrafluoro cyclotriphosphazene aryloxy tetrafluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene divinyl methoxy trifluoro cyclotriphosphazene diaryloxy trifluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene trivinyl difluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene diphenyl ether diphenyl silicate diphenyl carbonate 2 4 dimethyl 6 hydroxy pyrimidine or a mixture of any two or more thereof. In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing addivtive may be a cyclotriphosphazene that is substituted with F alkyloxy alkenyloxy aryloxy methoxy allyloxy groups or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive is vinyl ethylene carbonate vinyl carbonate or 1 2 diphenyl ether or a mixture of any two or more thereof.

Stabilizing additives of the invention are present in a wide range of amounts in the non aqueous electrolyte. For example the stabilizing additive can be present at from about 0.0005 to about 15 30 or even 50 weight percent wt of the electrolyte. Alternatively the additive can be present at from about 0.0005 0.001 0.01 or 0.1 wt to about 2 5 or 10 wt . Typically the additive is present at from about 0.01 wt to about 2 wt .

Inventive electrolytes include an alkali metal salt dissolved in a polar aprotic solvent. The alkali metal salt is a conducting salt and is typically present at a concentration of from about 0.5 to about 2 molar. Lithium salts are particularly useful in electrolytes of the invention. Exemplary lithium salts include Li CO B Li CO BF LiPF CO LiClO LiBF LiAsF LiPF LiCFSO Li CFSO N Li CFSO C LiN SOCF lithium alkyl fluorophosphates or a mixture of any two or more thereof. Lithium chelato borates such as Li CO B and Li CO BF and lithium chelato phosphates such as LiPF CO can also be used as the alkali metal salt. Generally blends of two or more alkali metal salts may be employed see for example pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 857 365 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Suitable polar aprotic solvents include for example ethyl acetate propyl acetate ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate diethyl ether methyl acetate gamma butyrolactone sulfolane or a mixture of any two or more thereof. Protic solvents such as water and alcohols cannot be used with the present invention. In some embodiments the polar aprotic solvent does not have an aryl vinyl or alkynyl group.

In another aspect there are provided electrolytes that include an alkali metal salt a polar aprotic solvent and an electrode stabilizing additive capable of undergoing thermal or electrochemical decomposition to form a passivating film on an electrode that is a substituted aryl compound or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl compound wherein the additive comprises at least one oxygen atom. The electrolyte is substantially non aqueous as described above and includes any of the alkali metal salts and polar aprotic solvents described herein. The electrode stabilizing additive can be for example a phenyl naphthyl or anthracenyl compound or a pyrrolyl oxazolyl furanyl indolyl carbazolyl imidazolyl or thiophenyl compound. For example the electrode stabilizing additive can be diaryloxy propylene carbonate aryloxy pyrrole aryloxy crotonate diaryloxy crotonate aryloxy ethylene silicate diaryloxy ethylene silicate aryloxy ethylene sulfate diaryloxy ethylene sulfate aryloxy cyclopropanone 2 aryl cyclopropanone divinyl phenyl carbonate diaryloxy phenyl carbonate aryloxy methacrylate diphenyl divinyl silicate diphenyl diaryloxy silicate diaryloxy furan aryloxy 2 furoate diaryloxy ethylene carbonate diaryloxy propylene carbonate diaryloxy butyl carbonate divinyl methoxydiphenyl ether diaryloxy diphenyl ether aryloxy ethylene sulfite diaryloxyethylene sulfite 4 allylanisole aryloxy phosphate aryloxy cyclopentanone diaryloxy cyclotriphosphazene aryloxy cycolophosphazene 1 2 divinyl furoate 2 diaryloxy furoate vinyl methoxyquinoline aryloxy quinoline divinyl methyl phosphate diaryloxy methyl phosphate aryloxy cyclobutane vinyl methoxy imidazole aryloxy imidazole methoxycarbazole aryloxy carbazole diaryloxy ethyl silicate diphenyl ether diphenyl silicate diphenyl carbonate or 2 4 dimethyl 6 hydroxy pyrimidine or a mixture of any two or more thereof. In some embodiments the electrode stabilizing additive and the polar aprotic solvent are not the same.

In yet another embodiment there are provided electrolyte blends which include a lithium metal salt other than a lithium chelato borate or a lithium chelato phosphate i.e. other than Li CO B Li CO BF and LiPF CO a polar aprotic solvent and a first electrode stabilizing additive that is a lithium chelato borate additive such as Li CO B or Li CO BF or a lithium chelato phosphate additive such as LiPF CO . The electrolyte is substantially non aqueous as above. In some embodiments a second electrode stabilizing additive may be included in the electrolyte such as described herein and or may include a substituted or unsubstituted organoamine alkane alkene or aryl compound or mixtures of any two or more thereof as described in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 857 365. In some embodiments the second electrode stabilizing additive may be a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon other than a spirocyclic hydrocarbon comprising at least one oxygen atom and at least one aryl alkenyl or alkynyl group. Representative second electrode stabilizing additives thus include vinyl biphenyl vinyl naphthalene vinyl anthracene vinyl pyridine or a mixture of any two or more thereof. The lithium metal salt and polar aprotic solvent of the present embodiments are also as described herein.

In the electrolyte blends of the present invention the first and second electrode stabilizing additives are present independently in an amount from about 0.0005 to about 10 20 30 or even 50 wt . Typically the first additive is present in an amount of about 0.01 to about 10 wt and more typically from about 0.01 to about 2 wt . The second additive is typically present in an amount of about 0.0005 to about 2 4 6 8 or 10 wt and in some embodiments about 0.001 to about 2 wt .

There are further provided methods of making the non aqueous electrolytes of the present invention. In some embodiments the method includes combining an alkali metal salt such as a lithium chelato borate or lithium chelato phosphate a polar aprotic solvent and an electrode stabilizing additive as described herein including but not limited to a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon comprising at least one oxygen atom and at least one aryl alkenyl or alkynyl group. In some embodiments of the method the electrode stabilizing additive is a substituted aryl compound or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl compound in which the additive includes at least one oxygen atom. In other embodiments the alkali metal salt is a lithium salt which is other than a lithium chelato borate or a lithium chelato phosphate i.e. Li CO B Li CO BF and LiPF CO and the electrode stabilizing additive may include a first electrode stabilizing additive such as a lithium chelato borate or a lithium chelato phosphate. A second electrode stabilizing additive may be combined with the electrolyte including e.g. a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon comprising at least one oxygen atom and at least one aryl alkenyl or alkynyl group and or a substituted or unsubstituted organoamine alkane alkene or aryl compound. The present methods can employ any of the alkali metal salts or polar aprotic solvents described herein.

While not wishing to be limited by any theory it is believed that electrochemical devices of the present invention exhibit enhanced performance due to the electrode stabilizing additives present in the non aqueous electrolytes. Thus it is believed that the additives protect the electrodes from chemical attack thereby lessening or preventing subsequent performance degradation. Specifically it is believed that during initial formation of the electrochemical device the additive undergoes thermal or electrochemical decomposition to form a protective film on the surface of the positive electrode cathode and or the additive may form a protective film on the surface of the negative electrode anode . By decomposition it is meant that the additive polymerizes oxidizes degrades isomerizes oligomerizes or otherwise forms a passivating film upon either the cathode or anode. The passivating film prevents Mn and Fe ions from dissolving in the electrolyte and stabilizes the cell in general. The passivating film should prevent ions on the order of the size of Mnand Fefrom passing through the film in either direction. Where a passivating film is formed on the anode the film also lessens or prevents the reduction of Mn ions from spinel cathodes and Fe ions from olivine cathodes at the anode surface. During the film forming process inventive additives may be oxidized or oxidized and polymerized. Additives of the invention typically have an oxidation potential ranging from about 1.5V to about 6.5V. In some embodiments the oxidation potential of the additive is from about 2.8V to about 5.5V. In some embodiments the reduction potential of the additive is from about 0.8V to 2.8 V

Thus in accordance with another aspect the invention provides an electrode for an electrochemical device comprising a surface and a passivating film formed on the surface from an electrode stabilizing additive that decomposes to form the passivating film. The passivating film may be formed from any additive described herein. Thus for example a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon comprising at least one oxygen atom and at least one aryl alkenyl or alkynyl group may be used to passivate inventive electrodes. The passivating film may also be formed from additives such as a substituted aryl compound or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl compound wherein the additive comprises at least one oxygen atom. Exemplary additives are described herein. Alternatively a combination of two additives can be used. In some such embodiments one additive is selective for forming a passivating film on the cathode to prevent leaching of metal ions and the other additive can be selective for passivating the anode surface to prevent or lessen the reduction of metal ions at the anode. For example a combination of 2 4 divinyl tetrahydropyran and 2 5 divinyl 1 3 dioxane 2 5 divinyl tetrahydropyran and 2 5 divinyl 1 3 dioxane 3 4 divinyl 1 methyl pyrrole and 4 5 divinyl isoxazole or 2 4 divinyl 1 3 dioxane and divinyl propylene carbonate can be used as the electrode stabilizing additive.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for forming a passivating film on a cathode comprising charging an electrochemical device wherein the electrochemical device comprises an anode a cathode and a substantially non aqueous electrolyte comprising an alkali metal salt a polar aprotic solvent and an electrode stabilizing additive capable of forming a passivating film on the surface of an electrode wherein the electrode stabilizing additive is a substituted or unsubstituted linear branched or cyclic hydrocarbon other than a spirocyclic hydrocarbon comprising at least one oxygen atom and at least one aryl alkenyl or alkynyl group. The charging step may be followed by a discharging step. In some embodiments the charging and discharging steps may be repeated two or more times.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for forming a passivating film on a cathode comprising charging an electrochemical device wherein the electrochemical device comprises an anode a cathode and a substantially non aqueous electrolyte comprising an alkali metal salt a polar aprotic solvent and an electrode stabilizing additive capable of forming a passivating film on the surface of an electrode wherein the electrode stabilizing additive is a substituted aryl compound or a substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl compound comprising at least one oxygen atom. The charging step may be followed by a discharging step. In some embodiments the charging and discharging steps may be repeated two or more times.

In another aspect the invention provides an electrochemical device comprising a cathode an anode and an electrolyte as described herein. In one embodiment the electrochemical device is a lithium secondary battery the cathode is a lithium metal oxide cathode the anode is a carbon or lithium metal anode and the anode and cathode are separated from each other by a porous separator wherein the electrode stabilizing additive undergoes thermal or electrochemical decomposition to form a passivating film on the surface of the cathode or anode. Typically the cathode in such a cell includes spinel olivine carbon coated olivine C LiFePO LiFePO LiCoO LiNiO LiNiCoMetO LiMnNiO LiMnCoNiO LiMnO LiFeO LiMetMnO LiNiMnCoMet OF AB XO Nasicon vanadium oxide or mixtures of any two or more thereof wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Mn or Co Met is Mg Zn Al Ga B Zr or Ti A is Li Ag Cu Na Mn Fe Co Ni Cu and Zn B is Ti V Cr Fe and Zr X is P S Si W Mo 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 x 0.4 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0.4 and 0 z 0.4 and 0 n 3. In such devices the anode may comprise graphite amorphous carbon LiTiO tin alloys silicon alloys intermetallic compounds lithium metal or mixtures of any two or more thereof. Suitable graphitic materials including natural graphite artificial graphite graphitized meso carbon microbeads and graphite fibers as well as any amorphous carbon materials.

In the electrochemical cells of the present invention the cathode can include spinel olivine or carbon coated olivine see Published U.S. Patent Application No. 2004 0157126 . For example the spinel can be a spinel manganese oxide with the formula of LiMnMetOX wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni or Co X is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 m 0.5 and 0 n 0.5. Alternatively the cathode can comprise olivine with a formula of LiFeMet POX wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni Mn or Co X is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 m 0.5 and 0 n 0.5.

Cathodes of the present invention may be further stabilized by surface coating the particles of the spinel or olivine with a material that can neutralize acid or otherwise lessen or prevent leaching of the manganese or iron ions. Hence the cathodes can also comprise a surface coating of a metal oxide on the spinel or olivine particles such as ZrO TiO ZnO WO AlO MgO SiO SnOAlPO Al OH a mixture of any two or more thereof or any other suitable metal oxide. The coating can also be applied to a carbon coated olivine. Where carbon coated olivine is used the metal oxide coating can be applied to the carbon coated olivine or can be applied to the olivine first followed by carbon coating of the metal oxide film. Methods for coating spinel cathodes with metal oxides are disclosed below and may be adapted for use with olivine cathodes.

The metal oxide coating on spinel can be applied using a variety of processes. For example the coating element source can be dissolved in an organic solvent or water. The coating element sources include metal alkoxide salt or oxide e.g. aluminum isopropoxide or magnesium methoxide . Spinel cathode materials are then dispersed in the coating solution. The mixture is stirred until the organic solvent is completely evaporated. If necessary a flushing gas COor moisture free inert gas may be used to help facilitate evaporation of the solvent in the coating solution. The dried coated material is then heat treated at a temperature ranging from about 100 C. to about 500 C.

A TiOcoating can be applied to spinel powders by hydroxylation of tetra n butyl titanate TBT . Thus for example the titanate can be reacted with LiOH to precipitate the titanium hydroxide onto the spinel powder. The coated material can be heat treated at from about 100 C. to about 400 C. to yield spinel particles with the desired oxide coating.

A sol gel process may also be employed in the coating of the spinel. The coating materials including M ethylhexanatediisopropoxide M Zr Al Ti B Si and tin ethylhexanoisopropoxide can be dissolved in alcohol e.g. 2 propanol or isopropanol . The cathode materials are then mixed with the coating solution and annealed at from about 100 C. to about 500 C. Alternatively a coating solution can be prepared by dissolving ethyl silicate in ethanol and water. Spinel powder is immersed in the coating solution stirred dried at 110 C. and then is calcined at from about 200 C. to about 500 C.

The process of coating spinel with AlPOcan be carried out by dissolving aluminum nitrate and ammonium phosphate in water until a light white suspension solution the AIPOnanoparticle solution is observed. Spinel cathode powder is then added to the coating solution and mixed. The slurry can be dried and annealed at from about 100 C. to about 500 C.

Colloidal suspensions may also be used to coat spinel with metal oxides. For example the spinel powders can be coated using a 4 wt 0.3 mol colloidal ZrOsuspension. The spinel particles are immersed and stirred in the ZrOsuspension for about 1 h followed by evaporation of the nascent liquid at 75 C. Thereafter the products can be heated at from about 200 C. to about 400 C. or about 500 C.

Alternatively the ZrOcoating of spinel can be carried out by using two different coating solutions zirconium oxide polymeric precursor or an aqueous solution of zirconium nitrate . Spinel may be mixed with the coating solutions until the mixture is dry. Then the mixture may be heated at 100 C. to evaporate the solvents in the coating solutions. The dried mixture may be heat treated at 200 500 C.

A ZnOcoating may be applied to the spinel by dissolving zinc acetate in water followed by adding the spinel powder and thoroughly mixing for about 4 h at room temperature. After drying the coated powder is heated at 120 C. and is further calcined at from about 200 C. to about 400 C.

Finally spinel can be coated using a co precipitation process. Spinel powder is dispersed into a NaHCOsolution and ultrasonically agitated. The suspension is then stirred mechanically while Al SO solution is added drop wise to it. In this way Al OH is precipitated onto the spinel particle surface. The final powder is filtered washed and dried. The dried powder is heated in air at from about 200 C. to about 600 C.

Stabilized electrodes comprised of blends of materials and electrochemical devices employing the same are also within the scope of the present invention. For example the cathode may include a blend of spinel and LiNiMnCoMet OF wherein Met is Mg Zn Al Ga B Zr or Ti and wherein 0 x 0.4 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0.4 and 0 z 0.4. The ratio of spinel to LiNiMnCoMet OF is typically from about 0.5 to about 60 wt . Suitable cathodes can also include a blend of olivine or carbon coated olivine and LiNiMnCoMet OF wherein Met is Mg Zn Al Ga B Zr or Ti and wherein 0 x 0.4 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0.4 and 0 z 0.4. As before the ratio of olivine or carbon coated olivine to LiNiMnCoMet OF maybe from about 0.5 to about 98 wt .

Such mixed electrodes can be used with any of the electrochemical devices described herein including those in which the alkali metal salt of the electrolyte is Li CO BF Li CO B LiPF CO or mixtures thereof as well as those utilizing the electrode stabilizing additives described herein.

The porous separator may be made from materials well known to those skilled in the art. Typically the porous separator comprises polypropylene polyethylene or a multilayer laminate of polypropylene and polyethylene.

Spirocyclic hydrocarbons include ring systems comprising carbon and hydrogen and having two or more rings in which at least two of the rings are joined at a single saturated carbon. Thus fused and bridged hydrocarbons in which two rings are joined at 2 or more carbons are not spirocyclic hydrocarbons.

The term spinel refers to manganese based spinel such as e.g. LiMnMetOX wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni or Co X is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 m 0.5 and 0 n 0.5.

The term olivine refers to iron based olivine such as e.g. LiFeMet POX wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni Mn or Co X is S or F and wherein 0 x 0.3 0 y 0.5 0 z 0.5 0 m 0.5 and 0 n 0.5.

Alkyl groups include straight chain and branched alkyl groups having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms and typically from 1 to 12 carbons or in some embodiments from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. As employed herein alkyl groups include cycloalkyl groups as defined below. Examples of straight chain alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl and n octyl groups. Examples of branched alkyl groups include but are not limited to isopropyl sec butyl t butyl neo pentyl and isopentyl groups. Representative substituted alkyl groups may be substituted one or more times with for example amino thio hydroxy cyano alkoxy and or halo groups such as F Cl Br and I groups.

Cycloalkyl groups are cyclic alkyl groups such as but not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl groups. In some embodiments the cycloalkyl group has 3 to 8 ring members whereas in other embodiments the number of ring carbon atoms range from 3 to 5 6 or 7. Cycloalkyl groups further include polycyclic cycloalkyl groups such as but not limited to norbornyl adamantyl bornyl camphenyl isocamphenyl and carenyl groups and fused rings such as but not limited to decalinyl and the like. Cycloalkyl groups also include rings that are substituted with straight or branched chain alkyl groups as defined above. Representative substituted cycloalkyl groups may be mono substituted or substituted more than once such as but not limited to 2 2 2 3 2 4 2 5 or 2 6 disubstituted cyclohexyl groups or mono di or tri substituted norbornyl or cycloheptyl groups which may be substituted with for example alkyl alkoxy amino thio hydroxy cyano and or halo groups.

Alkenyl groups are straight chain branched or cyclic alkyl groups having 2 to about 20 carbon atoms and further including at least one double bond. In some embodiments alkenyl groups have from 1 to 12 carbons or typically from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. Alkenyl groups include for instance vinyl propenyl 2 butenyl 3 butenyl isobutenyl cyclohexenyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexadienyl butadienyl pentadienyl and hexadienyl groups among others. Alkenyl groups may be substituted similarly to alkyl groups. Divalent alkenyl groups i.e. alkenyl groups with two points of attachment may include but are not limited to CH CH CH C CH or C CHCH.

Alkynyl groups are straight chain or branched alkyl groups having 2 to about 20 carbon atoms and further including at least one triple bond. In some embodiments alkynyl groups have from 1 to 12 carbons or typically from 1 to 8 carbon atoms. Exemplary alkynyl groups include but are not limited to ethynyl propynyl and butynyl groups. Alkynyl groups may be substituted similarly to alkyl groups. Divalent alkynyl groups i.e. alkynyl groups with two points of attachment include but are not limited to CH C CH.

Aryl groups are cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons that do not contain heteroatoms. Thus aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl azulenyl heptalenyl biphenylenyl indacenyl phenanthrenyl triphenylenyl pyrenyl naphthacenyl chrysenyl biphenyl anthracenyl and naphthenyl groups. Although the phrase aryl groups includes groups containing fused rings such as fused aromatic aliphatic ring systems e.g. indanyl tetrahydronaphthyl and the like and fused aromatic unsaturated ring systems e.g. indenyl fluorenyl and the like . It does not include aryl groups that have other groups such as alkyl or halo groups bonded to one of the ring members. Rather groups such as tolyl are referred to as substituted aryl groups. Representative substituted aryl groups may be mono substituted or substituted more than once such as but not limited to 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituted phenyl or naphthyl groups which may be substituted with groups including but not limited to amino nitro carboxy carboxamido hydroxy thio alkoxy alkyl cyano and or halo.

Heterocyclyl groups include aromatic and non aromatic ring compounds containing 3 or more ring members of which one or more is a heteroatom such as but not limited to N O and S. In some embodiments heterocyclyl groups include 3 to 20 ring members whereas other such groups have 3 to 15 ring members. The phrase heterocyclyl group includes mono bi and polycyclic ring systems. Heterocyclyl groups thus include fused ring species including those comprising fused aromatic and non aromatic groups. However the phrase does not include heterocyclyl groups that have other groups such as alkyl or halo groups bonded to one of the ring members. Rather these are referred to as substituted heterocyclyl groups . Heterocyclyl groups include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl triazolyl imidazolyl imidazolidinyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl oxazolinyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolyl isoxazolinyl isoxazolidinyl thiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl thiophenyl benzothiophenyl benzofuranyl dihydrobenzofuranyl indolyl dihydroindolyl azaindolyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl azabenzimidazolyl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl imidazopyridinyl isoxazolopyridinyl thianaphthalenyl purinyl xanthinyl adeninyl guaninyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl quinoxalinyl and quinazolinyl groups. Representative substituted heterocyclyl groups may be mono substituted or substituted more than once such as but not limited to pyridazinyl pyridinyl oxazolidinyl oxazolinyl or oxazolyl groups which are 2 3 4 5 or 6 substituted or disubstituted with groups including but not limited to amino hydroxyl thio alkoxy alkyl cyano and or halo.

Heteroaryl groups are aromatic ring compounds containing 5 or more ring members of which one or more is a heteroatom such as but not limited to N O and S. Heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to groups such as pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl oxazolinyl oxazolidinyl isoxazolyl isoxazolinyl isoxazolidinyl thiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl pyrinidinyl thiophenyl benzothiophenyl benzofuranyl indolyl azaindolyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl azabenzimidazolyl benzoxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl imidazopyridinyl isoxazolopyridinyl thianaphthalenyl purinyl xanthinyl adeninyl guaninyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl quinoxalinyl and quinazolinyl groups. Although the phrase heteroaryl groups includes fused ring compounds such as indolyl and 2 3 dihydro indolyl the phrase does not include heteroaryl groups that have other groups bonded to one of the ring members such as alkyl groups. Rather heteroaryl groups with such substitution are referred to as substituted heteroaryl groups . Representative substituted heteroaryl groups may be substituted one or more times with groups including but not limited to amino alkoxy alkyl thio hydroxy cyano and or halo.

In general substituted refers to a group as defined above in which one or more bonds to a hydrogen atom contained therein are replaced by a bond to non hydrogen atoms such as but not limited to a halogen atom such as F Cl Br and I an oxygen atom in groups such as hydroxyl groups alkoxy groups aryloxy groups aralkoxy groups and ester groups a sulfur atom in groups such as thiol groups alkyl and aryl sulfide groups sulfone groups sulfonyl groups sulfonamide and sulfoxide groups a nitrogen atom in groups such as nitro groups amines amides alkylamines dialkylamines arylamines alkylarylamines diarylamines N oxides imides ureas guanidines amidines and enamines a silicon atom in groups such as in trialkylsilyl groups dialkylarylsilyl groups alkyldiarylsilyl groups and triarylsilyl groups and other heteroatoms in various other groups. Substituted alkyl groups and also substituted cycloalkyl groups and others also include groups in which one or more bonds to a carbon s or hydrogen s atom is replaced by a bond to a heteroatom such as oxygen in carbonyl carboxyl and ester groups nitrogen in groups such as imines oximes hydrazones and nitriles.

One skilled in the art will readily realize that all ranges discussed can and do necessarily also describe all subranges therein for all purposes and that all such subranges also form part and parcel of this invention. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc.

All publications patent applications issued patents and other documents referred to in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication patent application issued patent or other document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety. Definitions that are contained in text incorporated by reference are excluded to the extent that they contradict definitions in this disclosure.

The present invention thus generally described will be understood more readily by reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present invention.

The specific examples referred to here utilizes an electrochemical cell such as that depicted in . Referring to there is disclosed an electrochemical cell having an anode separated by an electrolyte separator and a cathode all contained in an insulating housing with the anode separated from the cathode by the electrolyte and suitable terminals not shown being provided in electrical contact respectively with the anode and the cathode . Binders associated with the respective electrodes are well known in the art and will not be described here e.g. polyvinylidene difluoride . In this particular example the electrochemical cell comprises a graphite anode such as natural graphite artificial graphite meso carbon microbead carbon fiber or hard carbon a manganese spinel cathode and an electrolyte of approximately 1.2 M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 by wt . depicts the resulting capacity retention when the cell was cycled between 3.0 and 4.1 V. It shows a drastic capacity decrease with cycling at 55 C.

To investigate the origin of the significant degradation of the graphite substituted spinel cells in spite of the suppressed Mn ion dissolution the AC impedance of the cell was measured during cycling at 55 C. using a specially designed Li Sn reference electrode. The results are shown in . The AC impedance was measured after one formation cycle at room temperature and after 25 cycles at 55 C. . At the initial stages of cycling the impedance of the negative electrode was much smaller than that of the positive electrode however after 25 cycles at 55 C. the impedance of negative electrode increased significantly and overwhelmed that of the positive electrode.

The graphite anode cycled in the Li ion cell based on manganese spinel at 55 C. was examined by energy dispersive spectroscopy EDS . The EDS spectrum clearly showed the presence of Mn metal on the graphite surface. It is thought that the dissolved Mn was reduced at the graphite surface whose potential is ca. 0.08V vs. Li and played a catalytic role in forming a film at the graphite surface leading to the huge rise of interfacial impedance at the negative electrode.

To prove this hypothesis a cycling experiment was performed using a LiTiOspinel anode whose nominal voltage is ca. 1.5V vs. Li. shows the cycling performance of the LiTiO LiMnAlOcell at 55 C. The result is that the LiTiO LiMn AlOcell exhibited excellent capacity retention 95 after 100 cycles compared with the graphite LiMnAlOcell which we attribute to the fact that the Mn remains in the electrolyte solution and is not reduced on the LiTiOsurface due to its high reduction potential wherein 0.01 x 0.05.

1.0 M Li CO BFin EC PC DMC 1 1 3 electrolyte was used in spinel carbon cell system carbon anode is GDR instead of 1.2 M LiPFin EC EMC 3 7 . The results of cycling the cell between 3.0 and 4.1 V are shown in . This cell system demonstrated an improved capacity retention over the electrochemical cell of Example 1. The improved performance of Li CO BFis attributed to its greater stability compared to LiPF i.e. Li CO BFdoes not generate a strong acid that leaches the Mn ion from the spinel.

LiFePOwas prepared by a solid state reaction of a 1 1 1 molar ratio mixture of iron II oxalate ammonium dihydrogen phosphate and lithium carbonate. The precursors were mixed by ball milling in acetone overnight. The resulting gel was dried at 60 C. under vacuum thoroughly reground and finally heated under purified Ngas for 24 h at 700 C. The resulting gray powder was coated with carbon layers using a preheated flow of N CHin a gas phase process. The technique called Carbon Coating Technology CCT consists of feeding a pre heated reactor furnace containing olivine material with a mixture of Nan inert gas and propylene CHas the carbon source gas. See published U.S. Patent Application No. US20040157126. The temperature at which the cracking of CHwas achieved was fixed at 700 C. The electrochemical study was carried out on both the LiFePOand the carbon coated LiFePO.

To understand the reason behind the significant capacity fade at 55 C. the stability of C LiFePOin the presence of electrolyte was investigated. An appropriate amount of C LiFePOpowder was immersed in LiPFin EC PC DMC 1 1 3 and was heated at 55 C. for 2 weeks. The solution was then filtered and was subjected to inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ICP analysis to look for traces of iron ions. After 2 weeks of aging the olivine C LiFePOpowder in the LiPFbased electrolyte over 535 ppm of Fe ions were detected in the electrolyte. The amount of iron dissolved increased with increasing temperature and time of aging. This result clearly confirms that Fe ions are dissolved in the electrolyte during cycling. However the amount of active LiFePOmaterial associated with the small amount of iron dissolution is insignificant and could not account for the major capacity loss observed during cycling the cell at 55 C.

To investigate the origin of the significant degradation of the graphite LiFePOcells during cycling at 55 C. the AC impedance of the cell during cycling at 55 C. was measured using a specially designed Li Sn reference electrode. The results are shown in . The AC impedance was measured after one formation cycle at room temperature and after 50 cycles at 55 C. . At the initial stages of cycling the impedance of the negative electrode and positive electrode are very similar however after 50 cycles at 55 C. the impedance of the negative electrode increased significantly and is almost 90 of the total cell impedance.

The graphite anode cycled in the Li ion cell based on an olivine cathode at 55 C. was examined through EDS. The EDS spectrum not shown clearly showed the presence of iron metal on the graphite surface. It is thought that the dissolved Fe was reduced at the graphite surface whose potential is ca. 0.06 0.1V vs. Li and played a catalytic role in forming a film at the graphite surface leading to the huge rise of interfacial impedance at the negative electrode.

To prove this hypothesis a cycling experiment was performed using a LiTiOspinel anode whose nominal voltage is ca. 1.5V vs. Li. shows the cycling performance of the LiTiO LiFePOcell at 55 C. The result is that the LiTiO LiFePOcell exhibited excellent capacity retention 80 after 100 cycles compared with the graphite LiFePOcell. This can be attributed to the fact that the Fe remains in the electrolyte solution and is not reduced on the LiTiOsurface due to its high reduction potential.

The present example shows that the performance of the of the olivine LiFePOcell system can be improved by use of less acidic electrolyte salts. Of particular interest are lithium oxalatoborate LiBoB Li CO BF and LiPF CO . Because these salts don t produce a strong acidic environment the Fe dissolution should be significantly reduced or suppressed with such electrolytes. LiFePOpowders were stored at 55 C. for two weeks in both 0.7 M LiBoB in EC PC DMC 1 1 3 and in the 1.2M LiPFin EC PC DMC 1 1 3 . ICP was used to detect the amount of Fe in solution. As expected only a negligible amount of Feions were detected from the solution taken from the powder that was aged in LiBoB based electrolyte less than 3.7 ppm . By contrast the LiPFbased electrolyte displayed a significant amount of Feions 535 ppm .

While certain embodiments have been illustrated and described it should be understood that changes and modifications can be made therein in accordance with one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the invention in its broader aspects. Various features of the invention are defined in the following claims.

