---

title: Tape-spring deployable boom
abstract: A self-deployable, monolithic, open-lattice frame structure of resilient, tape-spring members. The structure is comprised of three or more longitudinal prismatic tape-spring members (longerons) and non-prismatic tape-spring members (battens) that are connected transversely to the longerons. The longerons can be reconfigured in a z-folding manner to compact the structure. The batten members have a twist at each end of the same magnitude and sense, such that when connected to the longerons, the concave surfaces of the battens substantially face along the longitudinal direction of the frame structure. This batten shape permits them to nest within adjacent battens when the structure is compacted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07617639&OS=07617639&RS=07617639
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07617639
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060808
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph I a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The present invention is related to self deployable structures and in particular to a frame architecture constructed of carbon fiber reinforced plastic tape spring members or members with a curved thin walled and open form.

Hierarchical structures are comprised of members with cross section geometry which respond with greater rigidity and stability per area i.e. a thin walled open form cross section is considered to have greater hierarchy than a solid rod of equivalent cross section area. Such architectures are desirable as they offer greater structural performance per mass. It has not been obvious how to incorporate hierarchy into deployable structural systems or how to realize these systems of monolithic construction. Monolithic or single piece fabrication avoids introducing imprecision arising from mechanical connections and allows the exploitation of stored strain energy to motivate self deployment since material must be deformed and thus strained to reconfigure. Self deploying structures exploit the mass volume and power otherwise allocated to attendant active deployment mechanisms to increase deployed structural performance. Prior art has focused on architectures which require assembly or the joining of individual members to acquire the deployed configuration architectures with mechanical joint features monolithic hierarchical architectures which lack transverse members architectures with limited hierarchy and architectures with hierarchical tube members and limited packaging capability. There is a need for a self deployable structure having a packaged or compact configuration with greater hierarchy and without mechanical joint features.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a self deployable monolithic open lattice frame structure of resilient tape spring members. The structure is comprised of three or more longitudinal tape spring members longerons that can be reconfigured in a z folding manner to compact and deploy the structure and of transverse non prismatic tape spring members battens connected to the longerons. The batten members have a twist at each end of the same magnitude and sense such that when connected to the longerons the concave surfaces at mid length of the battens face substantially along the longitudinal direction of the frame structure. This deployed batten configuration permits them to nest within adjacent battens when the frame structure is compacted. The strain capacity of the compacted longerons and battens can be utilized to deploy the structure.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a hierarchical self deployable and monolithic open lattice frame structure of resilient tape spring members with both terrestrial and celestial utility. The structure is comprised of a plurality of longitudinal tape spring and substantially prismatic members or longerons oriented parallel to and positioned at a radius from the structure s longitudinal or primary structural axis. A prismatic member is one which has a unique cross section geometry which does not translate from or rotate about the member s primary axis along the length of the member see . The longerons are connected together with transverse tape spring and non prismatic members or battens see forming triangular cross section bays as in the case of the depicted three longeron architecture of . Diagonal tension elements such as cables may also be disposed across the face of the bays interfacing with the structure at points where battens connect with longerons. shows one embodiment of the deployed frame structure with the longerons battens bays diagonal tension elements and primary structural axis identified. The longerons may be attached at one end to a structure not shown .

The non prismatic quality of a batten arises from lofting a rotated tape spring cross section or twisting the tape spring cross section about the batten primary axis at each end of the batten by the same magnitude and sense. The batten remains symmetric about its mid length. The battens of a structure are positioned symmetrically relative to the primary structural axis and are oriented such that the normal axes to like concave surfaces of any two battens in the same angular position relative to the primary structural axis are parallel in either the compacted or deployed configurations. The battens may be flattened or assume a cross section which is rectilinear and not arcuate at both ends to enable interfacing with the longerons. The longerons may be flattened at one end where they connect with a structure so that when Z folded in the compacted configuration the initial fold lies closer to the structure. The longerons and battens may be fabricated as a single piece as shown in but they may also be attached by various means known in the art including by mechanical fasteners or by adhesives. shows the preferred longeron orientation in cross section with the concave surface facing inward to the primary structural axis. However the longerons may also be reversed with the concave surface facing outward.

Longerons and battens are preferably made of carbon fiber reinforced plastic CFRP . Other suitable materials include fiber glass reinforced plastic polymer fiber reinforced plastic unreinforced plastic copper beryllium alloy and spring steel. The plurality of bays comprising the structure is defined by the batten frequency along the primary structural axis and the length of the structure.

The compacted configuration is obtained by bending the longerons at equally spaced points along the length of the structure and about alternating sense transverse axes relative to each longeron member i.e. Z folding the longerons. This movement results in a compact configuration with a first set of bending points which remain at a substantially fixed radius from the primary structural axis and a second set of bending points which increase in radial proximity to the primary structural axis. is a symbolic representation of the structure in its compacted configuration as viewed along the primary structural axis . The battens preferably connect with the longerons near the second set of bending points. This connection point dictates the movement either end of the batten member undergoes the ends increase in radial proximity to the primary structural axis and rotate substantially pi 2 about an axis parallel to the nearest longeron z fold again for the depicted three longeron architecture. When the non prismatic battens are subjected to this movement their utility is realized in the resulting deformed shape which lends itself to nesting within like deformed members with similar deployed geometry. This nesting quality can be characterized as a compacted shape where any axis parallel to the primary structural axis passes through or is coincident with the batten only once thus there is no overhanging geometry to obstruct the abutment of corresponding surfaces of a like compacted shape be it a batten of a previous or subsequently compacted bay. shows a detail of two nested battens. The mid length of a compacted batten has a flattened geometry with its transverse axis being approximately parallel to the primary structural axis . Without any such obstruction the longerons are free to bend to their designed strain capacity upon z folding see . The CFRP tape spring members of this structure exploit the properties of high efficiency or high rigidity to mass ratio material systems and yield a compliant structure relevant to deployable space applications.

