---

title: Methods and apparatus for providing on-demand assistance for a wireless device
abstract: Methods, devices, apparatus, computer-readable media and processors are provided that allow for on-demand user-assistance in a wireless communication device. User assistance is provided by demonstration routines that are stored locally and/or remotely, and which may be standard routines or customized routines to address the needs of the device user. The demonstration routines are accessed, and in some applications communicated to the wireless device, seamlessly to allow for a highly efficient means of providing user-assistance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07828216&OS=07828216&RS=07828216
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 07828216
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060120
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 660 917 entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING ON DEMAND ASSISTANCE FOR A WIRELESS DEVICE filed Mar. 11 2005 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described aspects relate generally to wireless communication devices and network communication. More particularly the described aspects relate to providing on demand assistance to a wireless device user in the form of interactive demonstrations.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network.

The current trend in the wireless communication device industry is to market devices that have a wide range of functionality. For example a single wireless communication device may be capable of wireless telephone communication digital photography wireless Internet communication electronic mail email and or Short Message Service SMS communication wireless audio and or video downloading other wireless network service communications and the like. In addition the wireless communication device may be capable of storing or wirelessly accessing numerous applications that can then be executed on the wireless communication device. Such multi functionality means that the user of the wireless device needs to be adept at using all of the features and functionality of the wireless communication device.

In addition to user familiarity with the device functionality a multi functional device may typically result in more problems that the user may need to address during normal use of the device. As such problems arise the need exists for the user to be able to address the problems as soon as possible in order to effectively and efficiently restore functionality to the wireless device

Generally the user of the wireless device becomes adept at using all of the features and functions or addresses a problem related to the wireless device by reading a comprehensive wireless device operating manual communicating with a service center for instructions or attempting to comprehend the functionality address the problem through a trial and error process. All of these current options are time consuming with respect to the user of the device.

Reading and comprehending the wireless device operating manual can be so time consuming that most users choose to avoid this option altogether. Additionally the mobile nature of the wireless device means the operating manual may not typically be readily available to the device user during normal device operation. Also reading the wireless device operating manual provides no assurance that the user may understand the functionality of the device or be able to solve the problem related to the device.

Communicating with a service center for instructions typically involves the user placing a wireless call to a technical support hotline. This process is generally frustrating to the user who in most instances has to wait an undesirable period of time before connecting with a technical service representative and in many instances the instructions provided to the user over the telephone are difficult to comprehend or implement. If the user is unable to solve the problem via the hotline the user may be left with no other option than to physically go to a service center and obtain a hands on live demonstration.

In addition to the frustrating and time consuming experience that device users incur the network service or device providers that operate the technical support hotline are tasked with maintaining a resource consuming operation. The resource consuming problem on the service provider end is exasperated as more functions and applications are constantly being added to wireless communication devices. Maintaining an ever expanding and resource consuming operation is a costly endeavor for the network service or device providers.

Currently wireless communication devices may be equipped with applications that provide help information based on a feature that the user is interested in knowing more about or a problem that the user is experiencing with the wireless device. However storage limitations on the wireless device make it difficult for the wireless device to store and address every conceivable feature or problem that a user may encounter. Furthermore as new functionality or applications are added to a wireless device during its useful life a pre existing help application is unable to provide assistance in using the new functions or applications or addressing problems encountered with the new functions or applications. Additionally many of the problems that a user encounters may be unique to the user and as such may not be addressed in a generic help application. In instances in which the help application does not provide adequate help the user is typically forced to resort to contacting the technical support hotline. 

Therefore a need exists to create a user assistance module or application executable on the wireless communication device that provides efficient. access to assistance demonstration. The desired user assistance application may provide seamless user access to a large updateable database of user assistance demonstrations. The desired user assistance demonstrations may be inter active to provide the user with an effective means of retaining the functionality assistance or problem resolution. In addition the desired user assistance application should be capable of providing the user timely access to demonstrations that can be customized based on the desired help or assistance that a user requires. Such a module may be able to provide the device user with an efficient process for obtaining device assistance and in instances that dictate such provide the user with an efficient process for obtaining customized device assistance. Additionally the desired user assistance application may provide network or device providers with a process that limits the use of live technical support thus making the process less of a financial burden on the network providers or device providers.

Thus devices methods apparatus computer readable media and processors are presented that provide for on demand user assistance in wireless communication device. A user assistance module is provided that is executes demonstration routines on the wireless device. The demonstration routines may be stored locally on the wireless device stored remotely at a wirelessly accessible network device or the routines may be custom generated to meet specific assistance needs of a device user.

In some aspects a method is provided for generating user assistance demonstrations on a wireless communication device. The method includes receiving a request for user assistance at the wireless communication device accessing a demonstration routine corresponding to the request and executing the demonstration routine on the wireless communication device. Accessing the demonstration routines may involve accessing locally stored demonstration routines wirelessly accessing remotely stored demonstration routines or generating a custom demonstration routine in response to network service communication.

In some aspects a machine readable medium is provided which when executed by a machine causes the machine to perform operations including receiving a request for user assistance at the wireless communication device accessing a demonstration routine corresponding to the request and executing the demonstration routine on the wireless communication device.

In other aspects at least one processor device is configured to perform the operations of receiving a request for user assistance at the wireless communication device accessing a demonstration routine corresponding to the request and executing the demonstration routine on the wireless communication device.

In yet other aspects a wireless communication device is provided that includes a computer platform including a processing engine and a memory unit and a user assistance module stored in the memory unit and operable by the processing engine the user assistance module operable to receive a request for user assistance wherein the user assistance module is operable to execute a demonstration routine on the wireless device based on the request for user assistance.

In still other aspects a wireless communication device is defined that includes a means for processing data on the wireless device a means for storing data on the wireless device that is in communication with the mean for processing data and a means for providing via the means for processing data user assistance demonstrations on the wireless device based on a received request for user assistance.

Additionally in some other aspects an apparatus for providing on demand user assistance demonstrations to a wireless communication device is defined. The apparatus includes a user manager device that stores a plurality of demonstration routines and communicates upon request a demonstration routine to the wireless communication device for execution on the wireless device and a user assistance service accessible to a user of the wireless communication device and in communication with the user manager device.

In yet other aspects the apparatus for providing on demand user assistance demonstrations to a wireless communication device is defined by a means for providing user assistance demonstration routines on a wireless communication device and a means for remotely storing a plurality of demonstration routines that are wirelessly communicable upon request to the means for providing user assistance demonstration routines.

In further aspects a method for wirelessly providing user assistance demonstrations to a wireless communication device includes receiving wirelessly at a network device a request for a demonstration routine from the wireless communication device accessing in network device memory the requested demonstration routine and communicating the demonstration routine wirelessly from the network device to the wireless communication device.

Also additional aspects are defined by A machine readable medium including instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform operations. The operations include receiving wirelessly at a network device a request for a demonstration routine from the wireless communication device accessing in network device memory the requested demonstration routine and communicating the demonstration routine wirelessly from the network device to the wireless communication device.

In some other aspects at least one processor device is configured to perform the operations of receiving wirelessly at a network device a request for a demonstration routine from the wireless communication device accessing in network device memory the requested demonstration routine and communicating the demonstration routine wirelessly from the network device to the wireless communication device.

In yet other aspects a method for wirelessly providing user assistance demonstrations to a wireless communication device is provided. The method includes generating a customized demonstration routine at a network service node and communicating wirelessly the customized demonstration routine to the wireless communication device wherein the customized demonstration routine was created based on communication between a user of the wireless communication device and the network service.

In still other aspects a machine readable medium that includes instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform operations. The operations include generating a customized demonstration routine at a network service node and communicating wirelessly the customized demonstration routine to the wireless communication device wherein the customized demonstration routine was created based on communication between a user of the wireless communication device and the network service.

Other aspects include at least one processor device configured to perform the operations of generating a customized demonstration routine at a network service node and communicating wirelessly the customized demonstration routine to the wireless communication device wherein the customized demonstration routine was created based on communication between a user of the wireless communication device and the network service.

Thus the described aspects provide for an efficient on demand system for presenting wireless device user assistance in the form of demonstration routines.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors provide for on demand user assistance on a wireless communication device. The user assistance is provided in the form of demonstration routines provided by a user assistance module executed on a wireless communication device. The user assistance module allows the user of the wireless device to efficiently access and execute on demand the demonstration routines. In one aspect the demonstration routines may be accessed locally on the wireless device. In an alternate aspect the demonstration routines may be accessed remotely via wireless communication with a network device. In yet another alternate aspect the user application module provides for the user of the wireless device to communicate with a network service such as a service provider technical support center that has the capability to create and communicate custom demonstration routines to the user assistance module based on user specific assistance needs.

Referring to one aspect of an on demand user assistance system for providing user assistance to a wireless communication device includes a wireless communication device also referred to herein as the wireless device having a resident user assistance module resident within the wireless device s computer platform . The user assistance module provides a user of the wireless device access to local demonstration routines remote demonstration routines and or custom demonstration routines . In one aspect the locally stored demonstration routines are stored within local memory associated with the computer platform of the wireless device.

In some aspects the system also includes one or more network devices for example a user manager server that is in wireless communication with the wireless communication device via wireless network . The network device will have a user assistance management module resident within the network device s computer platform . The user assistance management module is in communication with a database that is associated with the computer platform and stores a plurality of remote demonstration routines . The user assistance management module is associated with the user assistance module of the wireless device and provides the wireless device with wireless access to the remote demonstration routines . Additionally the user assistance management module may include a demonstration update module for initiating and or communicating new demonstration routines or updating pre existing local demonstration routines stored on the wireless device as will be discussed in more detail below.

In other aspects the system may include one or more network services such as the service provider technical support center shown in . The technical support center may include a technical support computing device and in some aspects a technical support representative for communicating with the wireless device user and the computing device. The technical support computing device is in network communication in many aspects wireless network communication with a network device that is responsible for wirelessly communicating the custom demonstration routine to the wireless device. In some aspects the network device that stores and communicates the remote demonstration routines may additionally serve as the network device that relays and communicates the custom demonstration routines to the wireless device . Further in some aspects the technical support computing device may act as a remote terminal that accesses network device in order to execute functionality that enables the generation of custom demonstration routines . For example technical support computing device may include an access module that operates in conjunction with a communication module to establish communications with network device via wireless network and or wired network . Access module may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions that allow technical support computing device to interface with a demonstration creator module on network device . For example access module may include Internet browser software for accessing network device and demonstration creator module such as through an enterprise web portal. Demonstration creator module is operable for automatically or manually creating custom demonstration routines as requested by the user of the wireless device. Communication module may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions that enable external communications between technical support computing device and other devices as well as internal communications between components of technical support computing device . In other aspects the demonstration creator module may reside on technical support computing device which may create the custom demonstration routine and forward it to network device . The network service is capable of receiving communication from the wireless device or the user of the wireless device which notifies the technical support computing device that a user customized demonstration routine is needed to address the user s desired assistance request. User customized demonstration routines hereinafter referred to as custom demonstration routines may be requested by the user of wireless device in instances in which the pre existing demonstration routines i.e. the local demonstration routines and the remote demonstration routines do not address the assistance being requested by the device user.

In one aspect the user assistance module is executed in the following manner. The module is activated by user input to the wireless device and upon activation a menu of pre existing demonstrations is presented to the user. For example in some cases upon launching user assistance module the module may automatically communicate with network device and obtain a new or updated demonstration routine index for display on in an on demand demonstration menu presented to the user by the wireless device . For example in some cases user assistance module may not have the demonstration routine index and thus the entire index may be obtained. In other cases user assistance module may have in memory a version of the demonstration routine index and may compare this version with the most up to date version of the index available from network device and only update portions of the index that have changed. The user may select a pre existing demonstration from the demonstration routine index based on the function or problem being encountered by the device user. In alternate aspects the user assistance module may be configured to automatically execute a pre existing demonstration routine based on pre determined inputs to the wireless device. For example repeated erroneous inputs to the device may automatically prompt the user assistance module to execute one of the pre existing demonstrations corresponding to the active application and or inputs.

In another aspect if the selected pre existing demonstration is stored on the local memory associated with the wireless device the user assistance module may access the memory retrieve the selected local demonstration routine and execute the demonstration routine.

In another aspect if the selected pre existing demonstration routine is not stored locally then the wireless communication device may initiate wireless communication with the network device that stores or has access to the remote demonstration routines download the selected demonstration routine from the network device and execute the demonstration routine on the wireless device. In some aspects the selected demonstration routine may be downloaded completely prior to execution on the wireless device. In other aspects to reduce the wait time of the user some predetermined portion of the selected demonstration routine may be downloaded and the wireless device may begin to execute this predetermined portion while the remaining portion is streamed to the wireless device. Further in one aspect the remote demonstration routines are accessed and downloaded to the wireless device seamlessly without the user acknowledging that the remotely stored demonstration routine is being accessed and wirelessly communicated from a remote network device . Seamless access and downloading of the remote demonstration routines provides additional efficiency to the overall process of providing on demand user assistance to the device user. In an alternate embodiment the user of the wireless device may be presented with an option to establish a wireless communication connection with the network device for the purpose of downloading the remote demonstration routine .

In yet another aspect if the assistance that is being sought by the device user is not among the pre existing demonstration routines i.e. the local demonstration routines and the remote demonstration routines then the user or the device may communicate with a network service such as a service provider technical support center or the like. The network service may then automatically or manually generate a custom demonstration routine based on the assistance being requested by the user or device. For example in some aspects the user of the wireless device communicates the desired assistance to a technical representative who executes demonstration creator module to generate a custom demonstration routine that provides the user with the desired assistance. For example in some cases such as where the technical representative does not write software code custom demonstration routine may provide simple building blocks relating to a user input or step in a method associated with a demonstration routine which can be used by the technical representative to create the presentation of information in a custom demonstration routine. Further demonstration creator module may then convert the simplified building blocks provided by the technical assistant into executable code such as a script that may be used by the wireless device to generate the custom demonstration routine. In other cases the technical representative may write the executable code that defines the custom demonstration routine . Once created the custom demonstration routine may be wirelessly communicated to the wireless device via a network device and executed on the wireless device.

In some aspects the pre existing demonstration routines may be stored both locally at the wireless communication device and remotely at one or more network devices . In some cases memory limitations on the wireless communication device may dictate that only frequently used or commonly used demonstration routines be stored on the local memory associated with the wireless device and all other demonstration routines are stored remotely at the one or more network devices . However in alternate aspects it may be possible to store all of the demonstration routines on the local memory associated with the wireless device or all of the demonstration routines may be stored remotely at the one or more network devices .

The demonstration routines and may be user interactive demonstration routines that require the device user to interact with the demonstration by providing inputs to one or more user input mechanisms of such as a keypad input button or switch touch screen display microphone or any other user interface associated with the wireless device. The demonstration routines may be visual demonstrations displayed on an output mechanism of such as a display associated with the wireless communication device. Additionally the demonstration routines may be audio demonstrations presented to the user via a speaker associated with the wireless device or the demonstration routines may be combined audio and visual demonstrations utilizing requisite output mechanisms. Thus demonstration routines and may include executable code data such as a text file and attachments such as audio video and or graphics files that when executed provide a presentation of step by step instructions which in some cases may be interactive to a user of a wireless device to assist the user in using the device.

Referring to the wireless device can include any type of computerized wireless device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The apparatus and method for on demand user assistance can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Additionally wireless device has input mechanism for generating inputs into wireless device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms may provide for user input to activate the user assistance module choose an appropriate demonstration routine and execute user inter active functions during execution of a demonstration. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In certain aspects the output mechanisms assist in providing a user access to demonstration routines and execution of the demonstrations.

Further wireless device has computer platform that can transmit data across wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications and display data transmitted from network devices such as user manager server or another computer device connected to wireless network . Computer platform includes a data repository which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data repository may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as user assistance module in a data repository of the wireless device . API is a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on wireless network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone communications processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components which receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the user assistance module . Further locally stored demonstration routines that is gathered and then logged in the local memory unit is available from these subsystems .

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless device as well as between the wireless device and the wireless network . The communication module may typically include a parser not shown in for parsing requests from remote network devices for initiation of wireless network communication. Additionally the communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection.

Computer platform further includes user assistance module that provides on demand user assistance in the form of demonstration routines. User assistance module may include any hardware software firmware and or other set of executable instructions operable to provide demonstration routines on the wireless device and transmission across the wireless network of any information relating to the demonstration routines such as the need to request a remote demonstration routine the need to request updates to the local demonstration routines or the like. In one aspect user assistance module includes user assistance logic that provides the capability to store and provide access to or forward demonstration routines. Further in some aspects user assistance module includes routine processing module that executes the selected demonstration routine and presents the routine to the user. For example in some aspects routine processing module may invoke other applications stored on the wireless device such as audio and or video related applications as well as utilizing processing engine and or processing subsystems in order to generate the demonstration routine. The user assistance module may also include a local memory unit that stores one or more local demonstration routines . User assistance module may be initiated at any time either automatically based on pre determined user inputs as explained in more detail herein or at the request of the user by input to a predetermined input mechanism and as such the demonstration routines may be retrieved from memory and executed at any time either automatically based on user inputs or at the request of the device user.

Referring to in one aspect a method for communicating a demonstration routine index and or a demonstration routine wirelessly is illustrated. Communicating a demonstration routine index and or demonstration routines wirelessly includes but is not limited to communicating one or more of a demonstration routine index a demonstration routine listing in the index and or a demonstration routine to a pre existing wireless device to initially establish a local version of the demonstration routine index and or a local library of one or more local demonstration routines based upon an on demand user request or to establish a library of commonly used assistance routines communicating a new demonstration routine index a new listing in the index and or a new demonstration routine to a wireless device as they become available or based upon a predetermined event and sending revised or updated demonstration routine index listing in the index and or demonstration routine to the wireless device as they become available or based upon a predetermined event. In this case the predetermined event may include for example powering up of the wireless device the establishment of a data connection by the wireless device launching of the user assistance module etc.

The illustration depicts an example of one possible flow for communicating the index of demonstration routines and or the demonstrations in which the network device initiates the communication. Network device initiated communications may be dictated by a new index and or demonstration routine becoming available or revisions updates to pre existing indexes and or routines becoming available. The process may be initiated as new or updated indexes routines become available upon occurrence of a predetermined event and or on a predetermined time interval. At Event the network device sends an initial bootstrap command to the user application module of the wireless device . The bootstrap command may be sent via Short Message Service SMS communication Automatic Call Back ACB communication or any other applicable communication medium. Once the wireless device is in receipt of the bootstrap command at Event the user assistance module parses the bootstrap command and at Event establishes a wireless communication connection with the network device . The communication connection may be established using Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or any other applicable communication protocol suitable for file transfer may be implemented. At Event a demonstration routine index and or one or more remote demonstration routines are downloaded from the remote network device via the established communication connection. Once the demonstration routine index and or demonstration routines have been downloaded at Event the wireless device sends a download acknowledgement message to the network device that acknowledges successful completion of the download process. At Event the user assistance module stores the demonstration routine index and or demonstration routines in local memory . At this point a user of the wireless device may browse the demonstration routine index and or execute a locally stored demonstration routine. If the user selects a demonstration routine that is not locally stored then it may be retrieved from network device as is discussed below.

The illustration depicts an example of one possible flow for communicating demonstrations in which the wireless device initiates the communication such as in the case of retrieving remotely stored demonstration routines. Wireless device initiated communications may be dictated by the need to acquire a local demonstration routine index and or a local demonstration routine library at the inception of the user assistance module or the need to obtain new or updated indexes and or demonstrations on a predetermined interval. At Event the wireless device performs a key sequence command to initiate the updating of the local demonstration routine file stored in local memory . Once the wireless device has initiated the updating of the demonstration routine index and or demonstration routine at Event the user assistance module establishes a wireless communication connection with the network device . The communication connection may be established using Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or any other applicable communication protocol suitable for file transfer may be implemented. At Event the latest version of the demonstration routine index updates to the existing demonstration routine index and or one or more remote demonstration routines are downloaded from the remote network device via the established communication connection. Once the demonstration routines have been downloaded at Event the wireless device sends a download acknowledgement message to the network device that acknowledges successful completion of the download process. At Event the user assistance module stores the demonstration routine index and or the demonstration routines in local memory for access by the user through launching the user assistance module .

Referring to a message flow diagram depicts an example of one possible method for requesting generating communicating and executing a custom demonstration routine . At Event the user of the wireless device or in some applications the wireless device may initiate telecommunications with a network service such as a service provider technical support center to request user assistance in the form of a custom demonstration routine. In many aspects the telecommunications may be wireless network communications between the wireless device and the network service . However in alternate aspects the telecommunications may involve conventional landline wired telecommunications between the user and the network service. In many aspects the initiation of the telecommunications with the network service may be at the direction of the user. For example the user may be unsuccessful in attempting to locate a pre existing demonstration routine that addresses the problem that the user is attempting to address. As such in many aspects the user assistance routine may be configured such that the presentation of the demonstration routine index additionally includes an input mechanism for automatically establishing a wireless connection with the network service. For example the user assistance module may provide for an option that allows the user to activate the call key to automatically place a wireless call to the network service.

At Event the user of the wireless device has established telecommunications with the network service and communicates the problem that they are experiencing or the function for which they desire instructions. In some aspects communication may be voice and or data communications between a user of the device and a technical support representative. However in alternate aspects the user of the device may communicate with an automated voice or keypad response system as a means of communicating the problem they are experiencing or the function for which they desire instructions. An automated voice or keypad response system may provide additional efficiency for the service provider who desires to limit the number of technical support representatives. In other aspects through contact with network service the user of wireless device may be directed to launch a browser application and establish a data connection with a given universal resource locator URL that is under the control of network device and or network service . In this case the URL may provide a web page with a questionnaire that the user is directed to complete and submit. Network service may then collect the inputs of the user from the questionnaire and prepare a custom demonstration routine based on those inputs.

At Event in response to the device user communicating the problem they are experiencing a custom demonstration routine may be generated at the network service level. In most applications generation of the custom demonstration routine may involve the technical support representative executing the demonstration creator module typically a generic script writing application to create an appropriate custom demonstration routine. In other applications the custom demonstration routine may be automatically generated by the demonstration creator module in response to user inputs to the automated voice or keypad response system or in response to a sequence of building blocks provided by network service .

Once the custom demonstration routine has been created at Event the network service may communicate wirelessly or wired the custom demonstration routine to a network device. In many aspects the network device may be one of the same network devices that store the remote demonstration routines . This may allow for the user assistance management module resident on the network device to optionally store the custom demonstration routine in the remote demonstration routine library. In this aspect the custom demonstration routine would effectively become a remote demonstration routine that can be downloaded to the wireless devices as needed. In alternate aspects the custom demonstration routine may be communicated wirelessly or wired directly from the network service to the wireless device .

At Event the network device in many aspects network device establishes wireless communication with the wireless device by sending an initial bootstrap command to the user application module of the wireless device . The bootstrap command may be sent via Short Message Service SMS communication Automatic Call Back ACB communication or any other applicable communication medium. Once the wireless device is in receipt of the bootstrap command at Event the user assistance module parses the bootstrap command and at Event establishes a wireless communication connection with the network device. The communication connection may be established using Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or any other applicable communication protocol suitable for file transfer may be implemented.

At Event the custom demonstration routine is downloaded from the remote network device via the established communication connection. Once the demonstration routine has been downloaded at optional Event the user assistance module may optionally prompt the user to execute the custom demonstration routine and at Event the user assistance application executes the custom demonstration routine on the wireless device. At optional Event once the custom demonstration has been executed the user assistance application may prompt the user to store the custom demonstration routine in local memory and if the user chooses to store the demonstration for future access at Event the custom demonstration is stored in local memory .

Referring to in one aspect wireless device comprises a cellular telephone. A cellular telephone system may include wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and often can communicate packets including voice and data over wireless network . As described earlier these smart wireless devices have APIs resident on their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone and control certain functionality on the device. is a representative diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a cellular wireless network and the interrelation of the elements of one aspect of the present system. Cellular wireless network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In system user manager server can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with a separate data repository for storing remote demonstration routines or custom demonstration routines. Further a data management server may be in communication with user manager server to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. User manager server data repository and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. User manager server and or data management server communicate with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless devices by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

According to some aspects is a flow diagram depicting an example of one possible flow for user interface with the user assistance module . At Event the user assistance module is activated. Activation of the user assistance module may typically involve a user input to an appropriate input mechanism . Once activated the user assistance module may typically allow for the user to choose a demonstration routine from a list of pre existing demonstration routines. In many aspects the list of demonstration routines are visually presented on an output mechanism such as a display associated with the wireless device. In alternate aspects the user assistance module may be configured to automatically be activated based on pre determined user inputs to input mechanisms. For example repeated erroneous inputs to the device may automatically prompt the activation of the user assistance module or cause the user assistance module to execute a predetermined demonstration.

Once the user assistance module is activated and the user is presented with one or more demonstration routine options the user may select from a list of pre existing demonstration routines. At Decision a determination is made as to whether the assistance being sought has a corresponding local demonstration routine . If a local demonstration routine is available then upon user selection of the routine the user assistance module may retrieve the demonstration from local memory and at Event execute the local demonstration routine. Once the user assistance module has executed the demonstration the user may optionally be presented with a prompt for deleting the demonstration from local memory.

If a determination is made that the assistance being sought does not have a corresponding demonstration routine in local memory then at Decision a determination is made as to whether the assistance being sought has a corresponding remote demonstration routine . If a remote demonstration routine is available typically indicated by representation of the demonstration within a listing then at Event wireless communication is initiated with a remote network device . In some aspects the initiation of the wireless communication may be seamless without acknowledgement by the user of the wireless device. In alternate aspects the selection of a remote demonstration routine may prompt the user with a decision on whether to proceed with establishment of a connection and or the downloading of a remote demonstration routine. At Event once communication is established the selected remote demonstration routine is downloaded typically wirelessly from the network device to the wireless device. Once downloaded at Event the remotely stored demonstration routine may be executed on the wireless device. Optionally post execution of the remotely stored demonstration routine the user may be presented with the option of storing the demonstration routine locally for the purpose of efficiently accessing the demonstration routine for future presentation.

If the determination is made that the assistance being sought does not have a corresponding demonstration routine stored locally at the wireless device or stored remotely at a network device then at Event the user of the device may initiate communication with a network service such as a service provider technical support center. In many aspects the initiation of the communication between the device user and the network service is presented as a selectable option within the listing of pre existing demonstration routines. In such aspects the user may select the option of contacting the network service for a custom demonstration routine and upon selection a wireless communication is initiated between the user and the network service. Once the user has established the communication with the network service and the user has communicated the problem that requires assistance at Event the network service may generate a custom demonstration routine. In many aspects the custom demonstration routine is created on the fly by a technical support representative communicating with the device user and an appropriate demonstration creator module resident on a technical support computing device .

Once the custom demonstration routine is generated at Event the routine is typically communicated wirelessly or wired to a network device. In many aspects the network device may be one of the network devices that execute the user assistance management module and or store the remote demonstration routines. In such aspects the network device may typically store the custom demonstration routine within the file of remote demonstration routines for future access by the wireless devices. At Event the network device initiates wireless communication with the wireless device and at Event the network device downloads the custom demonstration routine to the wireless device. In alternate aspects the network service may provide the capability to directly download the custom demonstration routine to the wireless device without having to route the custom demonstration routine through the network device.

At Event the user application module executes the custom demonstration routine on the wireless device. Once executed the user application module may optionally provide for a user prompt asking whether the custom demonstration routine should be stored locally for future access and execution. If the user is presented with this option and chooses to store the demonstration then the demonstration is stored. In alternate options the custom demonstration routine may be automatically stored locally at the wireless device for a predetermined or indefinite period of time.

The demonstration routines of the present aspects may include any demonstration routine that can be executed on the output mechanisms of the wireless device. Typically the demonstration routine may be displayed on a display associated with the wireless device. Additionally the demonstration routines may involve audio output mechanisms lighted keypad sequences and the like. In particularly advantageous aspects the demonstration routines may be user interactive demonstration routines. The use of interactive demonstration routines in which the user is prompted to make user inputs to input mechanisms as the demonstration is executed further reinforces in the user the solution to the problem so that future problems are averted. Examples of demonstration routines include but are not limited to keypad simulation routines that provide keystroke simulations on a display or via a sequence of lighted keypad presentations help window displays audio presentations and the like.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Thus the described aspects provide for on demand user assistance in a wireless communication device. The described aspects are capable of providing a device user with efficient access to a large volume of demonstration routines. By storing the demonstrations both locally and remotely and by providing seamless access to the remotely stored demonstrations the device user benefits from a highly efficient means of providing demonstration routines. Additionally the described aspects provide for an efficient means for requesting creating communicating and executing custom demonstration routines that may be required when the pre existing stored demonstration routines do not address the problem that the user is attempting to address. As such custom demonstration routines can be readily requested created communicated and executed by the user of the wireless device in real time without the user experiencing unwarranted and undesirable delays.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention may come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized individually and or with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

