---

title: Modular micropropulsion device and system
abstract: A modular propulsion system includes an array of micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion devices, each of which is an assembled micromachined device including an array of field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters, a fuel container of propellant using passive plumbing, electronic power and command controls, with the array of devices disposed about and on a surface of a spacecraft for providing diverse propulsion needs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07690187&OS=07690187&RS=07690187
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 07690187
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060926
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract No. FA8802 00 C 0001 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to the field of propulsion devices and systems. More particularly the present invention relates to modular micropropulsion devices and systems using micron sized field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters well suited for controlling spacecraft.

Developmental space propulsion systems have used macro field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters that have sub millimeter to millimeter sized gaps to create large ion accelerating fields with smaller applied voltages than is possible with conventional ion thrusters which typically require many thousands of volts. The resulting macro thrusters have a large specific impulse and have a large thrust. However macro field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters do require accelerating voltages of many hundreds to a thousand or more volts which is undesirable. These macro field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters have been built and tested for use in space but lack possible further reductions in size and weight. These macro field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters have not been micromachined with micron dimensions and thus the size of propulsion arrays using the thrusters will necessarily be large.

In contrast to the macro field effect electrostatic propulsion micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters are in development. The micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters are made with accelerating gaps whose dimensions are in micrometer sizes. These micromachined thrusters and arrays made of these micromachined thrusters are the only known space propulsion technology capable of simultaneously providing high specific impulse from 500 to 5 000 seconds high thrust in micronewtons to Newtons low specific weight in grams Newton of thrust lower specific power demands than conventional electric ion propulsion in N kW and much lower required drive voltages in the range of 200 500 V rather than the many thousands of volts for conventional ion thrusters. In addition these micromachined thrusters have the ability to control the thrust proportionally from nanonewtons to Newtons.

The macromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters take advantage of micromachined designs using a hollow accelerating electrode with a self forming cone of liquid metal propellant such as one made of gallium or indium. The tip radius of this cone forms to radii in the nanometer scale. Thus the field required to pull ions out of the liquid and accelerate the ions is very low due to a very large field gradient. The accelerating voltage varies both with the desired specific impulse Iand the material to be ionized. For example preliminary consideration would indicate that specific impulses of 3 000 Icould be attained using liquid indium with a potential difference of about 500 volts and for liquid gallium the potential difference would be only about 300 volts. These thrusters have high efficiency. This high efficiency from 500 to 5 000 seconds indicates that a given thrust should be obtainable with about half the input power than is the case for conventional ion propulsion.

In addition the micro thruster weight becomes negligible when micromachined on a silicon or other substrate. As an example initial calculations suggest that a 1 mm by 1 mm array with 10micron sized ion sources should produce a thrust level of 7.2 mN at a specific impulse of 1 700 seconds with an ion beam power of only 60 W. Also because the ionization time constants are extremely short proportionally variable thrust over a very large thrust range can be achieved by simply pulse modulating the impressed accelerating voltage.

Prior space thrusters such as gas thrusters have been employed in arrays for providing directional microthrust. However field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters have not been developed to provide space systems with efficient directional microthrust propulsion and control. Prior space thrusters have required fuel plumbing valving pressurants and external tanks to perfect the delivery of propellants to the space thrusters. Such fuel plumbing valving pressurants and external tanks in the macroscale for system applications have been unsuitable for use with field effect electrostatic propulsion micromachined thrusters. These and other disadvantages are solved or reduced using the invention.

An object of the invention is to provide a modular device comprising an array of field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters.

Another object of the invention is to provide a modular micromachined device comprising an array of modular field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters.

Another object of the invention is to provide a modular device comprising an array of field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters having data command and power communications.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a modular device comprising an array of modular field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters having power supplied through solar cells.

Still another object of the invention is to provide a modular micromachined device comprising an array of modular field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters having respective propellant containers.

A further object of the invention is to provide a propulsion system comprising an array of modular micromachined devices each comprising an array of field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters.

Still a further object of the invention is to provide a propulsion system comprising an array of modular devices each comprising an array of field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters with each device having respective command data and power communications.

Yet a further object of the invention is to provide a propulsion system comprising an array of micromachined modular devices each comprising an array of field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters with each device having a respective heat sink contact coupled to a heat sink.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a propulsion system comprising an array of micromachined modular devices each comprising an array of field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters with each device having a self contained propellant container including a passive means for drawing the propellant to each of the field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters.

The invention is directed toward a modular propulsion system including modular devices each comprising an array of micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion devices. The modular propulsion system includes packaged micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion devices disposed in an array about a spacecraft for providing diverse propulsion capabilities. The propulsion system includes an array of propulsion devices each having an array of field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters that have micromachined micron sized gaps to create very large ion accelerating fields with small applied voltages to provide large specific impulse and large thrust simultaneously yet be very small and lightweight. The array of micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters and supporting electronics and fuel container are integrated within the device that can be in any compact shape such as a cube for high density array disposition about the surface of a spacecraft.

The system of array of devices provides accumulated thrust as needed and in directions as assembled and disposed about an exterior surface of the spacecraft as a wide area propulsion system that at a minimum includes command communications for communicating commands from a system controller to the devices of the array of devices. Each of the devices in the array of devices may also communicate data to a system controller by data communications. The command and data communications between the system controller and the array of devices can be by hardwired links using conductor runs or electromagnetic transmission using system and device antennas. Power delivered to the array of thrusters of each device can be generated locally through the use of solar cells or batteries disposed on the device. Each device may further include power converters data processors command decoders power contacts data communication contacts and heat sink contacts. The device could also include a battery supply. At a minimum the device must include a micromachined thruster array a fuel supply with passive plumbing and a means for delivering electrical power to the thruster array and a control means for controlling the thrust of the thruster array. As such the devices are self contained modular packages. Further such a device operates without active plumbing and valves. The device may further operate without a fuel pressurant. Additionally the devices do not require external fuel tanks. The devices are compact in shape and can be attached or bonded to spacecraft surfaces for accumulated aggregate thrust about the spacecraft as needed. The devices have low weight and can be inexpensively mass produced. The devices deposed in a wide area system as an array of devices can satisfy various and largely varied spacecraft propulsion needs. Any number of devices can be used without device redesign for many applications requiring larger or smaller thrust due to the inherent modular design of the devices. These and other advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment.

An embodiment of the invention is described with reference to the figures using reference designations as shown in the figures. Referring to a modular micropropulsion device is preferably fashioned in the shape of a cube having on a top surface of electronics comprising a power converter a data processor a command decoder a device transceiver and a solar cell array. An exemplar solar cell in the solar cell array is designated as such. Also disposed on the top of the cube device is a thruster array for providing thrust. An exemplar thruster in the thruster array is designated as such. On opposing sides of the cube device are disposed a data transmitter antenna and a command receiver antenna. On the bottom of the cube are disposed data contacts power contacts and heat sink contacts. The cube is protected by a heat shield about the periphery of the cube. A battery is internally disposed in the cube device preferably near the bottom of the cube device. Above the battery is disposed a fuel container for containing a propellant for use by the thruster array. The container is preferably temperature regulated using a heater. The fuel container includes passive plumbing such as a wick for moving the propellant toward the thruster array including the exemplar thruster for providing thrust. The propellant moves towards and to the thrusters by passive plumbing relying upon for example capillary action. The thruster array is an array of preferably like micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters.

In operation the solar cell array collects solar energy and provides power to charge the battery for reliable internal power supply to the power converter delivering power to the data processor command decoder and device transceiver as well as the micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thruster array. The data processor is used for management operation of the command decoder and device transceiver for receiving commands and transmitting data respectively through the command receiver antenna and the data transmitter antenna. The data processor controls and monitors controlled thrusting action of the thruster array and indicates the amount and time of thrust provided and hence the amount of remaining propellant in the fuel container. The propellant flows preferably by capillary forces to the thrusters. The propellant may be a gallium based propellant. Power through the device is routed by electronic conducting traces not shown for convenience. While the thrusters are shown with the thruster array on the top of a cube side placement of the thruster array can be realized for providing side thrusting as desired. The cube design is an exemplar one as other shapes could be used. Placement of antennas solar cells electronics and thrusters can be disposed about the device in various configurations as desired.

The modular microthruster device is essentially an assembled microchip that can conveniently include electronic processors and command receiver chips or processors typically disposed on exterior locations though internal dispostions may be desirable. The propellant container can be equipped with a heater as needed to keep the propellant liquid as environmental conditions require. The propellant wick is a passive propellant acquisition device such as a screen that can used as needed. The device shape such as a cube can be made on the order of one centimeter on the sides and can be bonded to appropriate spacecraft surface locations where ever directional thrust is desired. The thrust level of a device is determined by the number of microthrusters activated on the assembly face of the device as well as pulse modulation of an accelerating voltage from the power converter while the propellant amount and thus total impulse obtainable is determined by the quantity of propellant stored within the device. The modular shape of the devices is preferably cubical but different volume and shapes of the device allow for a large range of accumulative thrust and total impulse capabilities distribution on the surfaces of the spacecraft. The modular shapes can be dictated by the most effective propellant wicking or other propellant acquisition means employed. The implementation of the modular device in a cube shape is illustrative only. There are many other possible packaging shapes and sizes with various internal details that can accomplish the same modular purpose.

Referring to the modular micropropulsion system includes a plurality of modular micropropulsion devices preferably aligned in a micropropulsion device array affixed to an exterior spacecraft surface. An exemplar micropropulsion device is designated as such. The system preferably includes a power bus for routing alternative power from a system battery and power supply to the power contacts of the device as power is needed and as an alternative source of power for the device array. The system preferably includes a heat sink bus for transferring waste heat from the device array through heat sink contacts of the device array to a system heat sink. The system preferably includes a data bus for routing command to and data from the device array through data contacts of the device array. The data can indicate the state of the device including the amount of fuel used and the amount of remaining controlled thrust available from the device of the array of devices. As an alternative method of communication a command and data transceiver can transmits command to and receive data from the device array using a system antenna communicating through the data transmitter antenna and command receiver antenna of the device array. Beyond solar power device battery or system power supply power to the devices could also be delivered to the devices by electromagnetic propagation through power transmission from the system antenna and collected by the receiving antenna of the devices.

In operation the system relies upon necessary communications power supply and thrusting in an array arrangement. The system has data and command communications through either hard wire contacts or through electromagnetic propagation using antennas or both. Power for operating the devices can be from solar cell energy collection or through the system power supply or both. As more system thrust is desired at various locations of the spacecraft surface the devices can be disposed in various numbers and at various locations as desired. The preferred form shows only one such arrangement in a square device in a rectangular array arrangement for an exemplar maximum packing densities on a portion of the surface of the spacecraft using the preferred cubical device shape. Further the shape of an individual device need not necessarily be square as shown but could also preferably be rectangular hexangular triangular or otherwise to meet various design density and placement requirements about the spacecraft surface.

Micron sized field effect electrostatic propulsion thrusters are made by micromachining and microchip assembly using conventional manufacturing techniques so that the propulsion thruster gaps are made in the order of micron sizes and the cube in the order of centimeters. The micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thruster device can have any number of different implementation designs and configurations as desired or required. The modular device packaging enables lightweight thrusting in various configurations and in any amount of accumulated directional thrust well suited for use on small spacecraft. When the total impulse required is much larger than that deliverable by one device for a propulsion application the requirement can be met by bonding more of the devices to the surface of the spacecraft at appropriate locations desirable for attitude control and translation propulsion of the spacecraft.

The space propulsion systems use arrays of micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thruster devices each having an array of thrusters each having a micromachined micron sized thruster gap to create very large ion accelerating fields with small applied voltages resulting in thruster devices having a large specific impulse and large thrust simultaneously. The devices can be machined to be small and lightweight. The modularity of the system enables scalability to attain a very large range of thrusts and total impulses without redesigning redeveloping or re testing each device in the array of devices. The ease of supplying power and communications to the devices together with the complete flexibility of locations for the attained thrust provides savings in time and man hours leading to much more affordable spacecraft.

This modular system provides solutions to various propulsion requirements by providing high accumulated thrust and high specific impulse simultaneously at very low weight and power requirement using compact self contained modular thruster devices that can be inexpensively mass produced. The modular devices include means to deliver electrical power and propellant to the thruster array and means to receive commands to control the thruster operation with passive plumbing fuel delivery. Coatings and shields can be used to regulate the thermal environment of the devices. Hard wires or antennas can be used in combination to provide power and commands to the devices from a remote or central system controller. Communications means power delivery means and fuel containers can be integrated into the modular devices that can then be glued or bonded to the spacecraft surface where needed. Plated wiring or other hard electrical contact means can be routed from the system controller to the devices disposed at various locations in an array on the surface of the spacecraft. A spacecraft surface can use several plated wiring runs so that the devices can be attached where desired on the surface singly or in numbers without any redesign of the devices. Power as well as commands also can be sent to the thruster devices via microwave beams from central system antennas to avoid the need for any wiring runs or hardwired contacts. The devices can have receiving antennas built in plated on or otherwise disposed as part of the devices. The spacecraft surface is used to support the devices in desired locations to meet specific thrusts needs about the spacecraft.

These modular devices can be attached to the spacecraft surface where ever needed to provide thrust as needed for spacecraft attitude control or station keeping or translation. Power and commands are provided along the spacecraft to and at those locations where thrust is known to be required or alternatively at many points where the thrust might eventually be required. Command and power delivery to various locations on the surface of the spacecraft can be provided by many wiring points or wiring runs that can be plated or bonded to the surface of the spacecraft in any array configuration. The devices can be made in any desired shape using wired or wireless transmission of power command and data communications. The micromachined field effect electrostatic propulsion thruster devices can be adapted to meet a wide range of spacecraft propulsion needs well suited for small spacecraft or in aggregation to larger spacecraft. Those skilled in the art can make enhancements improvements and modifications to the invention and these enhancements improvements and modifications may nonetheless fall within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

