---

title: Handset self diagnostics
abstract: A system for handset self diagnostics is provided. The system includes a handset and a diagnostic engine on the handset to obtain diagnostic data for the handset. The system also includes an application on the handset, and the application includes at least one user interface that uses the diagnostic data to assist a user of the handset to operate the handset.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08244237&OS=08244237&RS=08244237
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08244237
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20060926
---
A handset may refer to a mobile phone a wireless handset or telephone a pager a personal digital assistant a portable computer a tablet computer or a laptop computer. When a user of the handset needs assistance in operating a handset the user may contact a customer service center for a telecommunications network carrier. The customer service center may only provide certain assistance to the user which may be limited when the handset is not physically present at the customer service center. If the customer service center cannot assist the user in operating the handset the customer service center may send the handset to the handset manufacturer and may charge the handset manufacturer for the return. Also customer satisfaction may decrease when the handset is at the customer service center or at the handset manufacturer. Servicing the handset at the customer service center or at the handset manufacturer may create expenses for the network carrier the handset manufacturer or both.

In one embodiment a system for handset self diagnostics is provided. The system includes a handset and a diagnostic engine on the handset to obtain diagnostic data for the handset. The system also includes an application on the handset and the application includes at least one user interface that uses the diagnostic data to assist a user of the handset to operate the handset.

In another embodiment a system for handset self diagnostics is provided. The system includes a handset operable for use by a user for wireless communication. The system also includes a diagnostic engine to obtain diagnostic data for the handset. Additionally the system includes an application on a computer of the user with the computer in communication with the handset. The application includes at least one user interface that uses the diagnostic data to assist the user of the handset to operate the handset.

In yet another embodiment a method for handset self diagnostics is provided. When a handset is inoperable to communicate via a carrier wireless network a computer of a user of the handset communicates with the handset. An application is selected using the computer to obtain diagnostic data from the handset to enable the handset to communicate via the carrier wireless network. When the application cannot enable the handset to communicate via the carrier wireless network the computer of the user is used as a proxy to promote communication between the handset and a customer service system of the carrier to attempt to resolve the issue.

These and other features and advantages will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although an exemplary implementation of one embodiment of the present disclosure is illustrated below the present system may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The present disclosure should in no way be limited to the exemplary implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below including the exemplary design and implementation illustrated and described herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

To reduce expenses and customer dissatisfaction when a handset is at a customer service center or at a handset manufacturer embodiments of the present disclosure enable a handset user to perform self diagnosis on a handset. The user may use the handset to access diagnostic data to correct a handset problem. Unlike typical settings information the present system enables the user to access diagnostic data on the handset. An example of such diagnostic data may be codes or information related to dropped calls. Such information is maintained on the handset but not readily available to the handset user without an application provided by some embodiments of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments the handset user may use a personal computer communicating with the handset to correct handset problems. For example if the user cannot correct problems by using the handset the user may use the personal computer to correct the problem. In other embodiments of the present disclosure when the handset has a problem making calls or cannot otherwise communicate with the wireless telecommunications network the user may use the personal computer as a proxy to promote communication between the handset and a customer service system of the carrier. This communication with the customer service system either directly or via the user s personal computer may assist in correcting the handset communication or other problems.

The handset also includes a handset application which includes a handset user interface . The handset application is software that includes the handset user interface which may be a GUI graphical user interface that enables a user of the handset to access diagnostic data from the diagnostic engine on the handset to assist the user to operate the handset . Diagnostic data is information related to the operation of the handset and may include but is not limited to dropped calls information error logs records of problems CPU or processor activity or usage system level or information other than handset settings. Handset settings and settings related information are typically more readily accessible to users than diagnostic data.

The handset may also include a user manual . The user manual may be located on the handset on the computer and or on a diagnostic computer. A comprehensive user manual for the handset is not usually available on handsets such mobiles phones or personal digital assistants. Similar to help options on personal computer applications embodiments of the present disclosure provide the user manual on the handset the computer or a diagnostic computer so that a handset user has it readily available as a reference in lieu of a paper version of the user manual which is typically not kept with the handset . The handset could internally use SMS Short Message Service for various functions including retrieving and presenting the user manual and or other applications.

The handset may communicate with a computer which may be the handset user s computer but is not a computer operated by the wireless telecommunication provider or handset manufacturer. The handset may communicate with the computer wirelessly or by a wired connection. The computer includes a computer application which includes a user interface . The computer application includes the computer user interface to enable the user of the handset to access diagnostic data from the diagnostic engine on the handset to assist the user to operate the handset . The computer application may include components similar to the components in the handset application . However the computer application may provide additional assistance and functionality beyond that of the handset application . For example the computer application may provide or instruct the diagnostic engine to execute additional diagnostic tests on the handset . For example the handset may not have been provided with the most recent or updated diagnostic information or testing capabilities. The computer application may have or be able to easily obtain such as by downloading via the Internet specific or additional capabilities to access different systems in the handset .

The computer also includes a knowledge base . The knowledge base is a database that may include records regarding specific handset problems and specific actions that the computer uses to assist the user with each specific handset problem. Each time a handset problem is solved the computer may update the knowledge base . Although not shown in the handset may also include the knowledge base . However the knowledge base on the handset may be limited relative to the knowledge base on the computer because of storage limitations on the handset . The knowledge base on the computer may include or be able to download additional or updated records regarding specific handset problems to which the handset application may not have access.

Additionally the computer includes a proxy component . When the handset is inoperable or unable to communicate with a wireless network the user of the handset may use the computer to communicate with the handset . The user may use the proxy component on the computer to promote communication between the handset and a customer service system for a telecommunications carrier system or carrier system . The proxy component allows the carrier system access to the handset via the wireless network or an alternative communication system such as the Internet .

The handset may also communicate directly with the carrier system through the wireless network . The carrier system includes the customer service system and a carrier diagnostic computer . A diagnostic computer is a computer for communicating with the diagnostic engine and assisting the user to operate the handset . The diagnostic computer may assist the user to operate the handset by sending software or firmware to the handset . The carrier diagnostic computer is a diagnostic computer used by the carrier system . The user of the handset may communicate with the customer service system to obtain assistance with the handset . The customer service system may use the carrier diagnostic computer to diagnose the handset to assist the user with the handset .

The carrier diagnostic computer may include components such as the knowledge base similar to the components in the computer . However the carrier diagnostic computer may have additional or updated diagnostic information or capabilities that the computer and the handset application may not have. Also the carrier diagnostic computer may have specific capabilities to access different or additional systems in the handset .

The carrier diagnostic computer includes a diagnostic component an encoder and a decoder . The diagnostic component may be for example a software application used to promote communicate with the diagnostic engine . It should be appreciated that each different handset may include a different diagnostic engine and consequently each handset may require a different application or interface to communicate with the diagnostic engine of that handset. Also each diagnostic engine may generate or record diagnostic data that is proprietary and specific to a particular handset. The manufacturers may develop specific tools to communicate with the proprietary diagnostic engine on each of the different handsets they manufacture. These systems are typically not provided to the telecommunications carriers.

According to the present disclosure the encoder and decoder may be systems provided by the manufacturer that are capable of communicating with the diagnostic engine on the handset either directly or indirectly. In some embodiments the diagnostic component may be a tool or interface to promote communication with the diagnostic engine by employing the capabilities of the encoder and decoder and . That is multiple encoders and decoders and each capable of communicating with different diagnostic engines on different handsets might be provided on the carrier s diagnostic computer . Although only one encoder and decoder are shown multiple encoders and decoders might be present. The diagnostic component might also provide a common GUI graphical user interface for customer service representatives to work the multiple handsets and diagnostic engines .

The diagnostic component along with other systems might provide the communication capabilities to promote remote communication with the handset and diagnostic engine . For example the diagnostic component might send scripts or other inputs to the diagnostic engine that were obtained from the encoder . Communications received by the diagnostic component from the diagnostic engine might be referred to the decoder for interpretation. The encoder may change signals communications or requests from the diagnostic component into code or signals understandable to the diagnostic engine . Similarly the decoder may change code data or instructions received from the diagnostic engine back into data understandable to a diagnostic computer or diagnostic component .

The diagnostic component encoders and or decoders might be provided with a standard interface or API application programming interface so different manufacturers encoders and decoders may communicate with the diagnostic component . Other ways of handling the communication between the diagnostic component encoders and or decoders to promote communication with the diagnostic engine will readily suggest themselves to one skilled in the art in light of the present disclosure. Additional information on the diagnostic component encoders and or decoders is provided in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 535 283 filed Sep. 26 2006 entitled Remote Handset Diagnostics by Sudheer Kumar Peddireddy et al. referenced above which is incorporated herein by reference.

The carrier diagnostic computer may use the knowledge base accessed by the carrier diagnostic computer to assist the user to operate the handset . Each time a handset problem is solved the carrier diagnostic computer may update the knowledge base accessed by the carrier diagnostic computer .

The handset user may also obtain assistance directly from the manufacturer via the wireless network or when the handset is inoperable may communicate indirectly with the manufacturer system using the computer via the Internet . The manufacturer system may include a manufacturer diagnostic computer which may be similar to the carrier diagnostic computer . The manufacturer diagnostic computer is a diagnostic computer used by the handset manufacturer. The manufacturer diagnostic computer may include components substantially similar to the components in the carrier diagnostic computer such as the diagnostic component the encoder the decoder and the knowledge base .

The handset manufacturer may have additional or updated diagnostic information or capabilities that the carrier diagnostic computer the computer or the handset application may not have. Further the manufacturer diagnostic computer may have specific capabilities to access different systems or functionality in the handset . The knowledge base on the manufacturer diagnostic computer may include additional or updated records regarding specific handset problems that the carrier diagnostic computer the computer or the handset application may not have.

Turning now to a block diagram of a handset user interface is depicted according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. These illustrative handset user interfaces may be examples of the handset user interfaces that may be displayed on the handset by the handset application . The user interfaces depicted in are examples of the handset user interfaces that may be displayed in response to a sequence of user selections made by a user experiencing a problem with a camera for example a flash problem for a camera. Although flash related problems may be diagnostics information or user settings depending on the handsets flash problems are provided as an example of a diagnostic problem that may require the use of diagnostic data to correct. However as used herein diagnostic data is any information that is normally not available to a user through standard settings and may include but is not limited to information about an operating system hardware software firmware system serial numbers dropped calls other proprietary information or any other non setting data.

The first options that may be displayed to the user of the handset by the handset application may be a diagnostics option and a user manual option. By selecting the diagnostics option the handset application may display the diagnostic portion of the handset application which provides further options related to handset diagnostics such as the options displayed under a select module heading.

The options displayed under the select module heading may include a camera option a SMS option a pix message option a voice call option and a phonebook option. By selecting the camera option the user may select further options related to a camera and a camera controller. By selecting the SMS option the user may select further options related to a short message service for providing alphanumeric messaging. By selecting the pix message option the user may select further options related to digital picture messages. By selecting the voice call option the user may select further options related to audio messages and call settings. By selecting the phonebook the user may select further options related to a database of telephone numbers associated names and so on.

For example if the user selects the camera option the handset application may display a select problem area heading. The options displayed under the select problem area heading may include a resolution option a flash option a zoom option a shutter sound option and a fun frame option. By selecting the resolution option the user may select further options related to the level of detail for digital pictures taken by the camera. By selecting the flash option the user may select further options related to the light produced by the flash to help illuminate a scene for photographing. By selecting the zoom option the user may select further options related to adjusting the lens magnification. The shutter sound option may provide options related to the sound made by the device when taking a picture. The fun frame may provide options related to a selection of digital frames that may be displayed around the digital pictures taken by the camera.

If the user selects the flash option the handset application may display for example the heading Current flash setting is off. Do you want to turn on the flash . The handset application may respond to the selection of the flash option by executing the first diagnostic engine which may obtain diagnostic data for the handset such as handset diagnostic data. The diagnostic data obtained by the diagnostic engine may indicate that the flash option for the camera is inoperative because the flash setting is set to off. In response to this indication the handset application may display the message Current flash setting is off. Do you want to turn on the flash . In response to the message the user may select the no or the yes options.

The user may select no if the user wants the flash to stay off or if the user has already tried unsuccessfully to turn the flash on. The handset application might respond to the user selection of the no option by displaying a message Reporting problem to customer service. A representative will contact you. . At this point the handset may report the flash problem for the camera to the customer service system . A customer service representative may respond by contacting the user immediately or at a later time.

Alternatively the user may select the yes option in response to the message Current flash setting is off. Do you want to turn on the flash . For this example the handset application responds to this selection by displaying a message Camera flash set to on. Please start camera and check flash operation. . After displaying the message the handset application displays a message Is camera flash working now and both a Flash not working option and a Flash working option might then be displayed. If the user responds to the message by selecting the Flash working option the process depicted in terminates. If the user responds to the message by selecting the flash not working option the handset application responds to this user selection by displaying the message Reporting problem to customer service. A representative will contact you. . After reporting the problem to customer service the process depicted in terminates.

By selecting the user manual option the handset application may display the help portion of the handset application which includes further options related to user manual data such as the options displayed under a user manual query heading. User manual data is a set of information provided by the handset manufacturer that instructs the user how to operate the handset .

In another example if the user selects the user manual option the handset application may display the options headed by the message user manual query . The options headed by the message user manual query may include a message please input your problems . In response to the message the user may enter a response camera flash not working and select an enter option. In response to the user selecting the enter option the handset application obtains user manual data from the user manual . The user manual may be located on the handset on the computer or on a diagnostic computer. The user manual may be accessed directly or may be accessed indirectly through the computer or through the computer and the proxy component .

In response to the user selecting the enter option after entering the response the handset application may query the data from the user manual and display a message user manual camera flash menu . The user interface headed by the message user manual camera flash menu may include a message camera flash on enables flash off disables flash and both an on option and an off option. In response to the message the user may select the on option to set the flash on for the camera. In response to the user selecting the on option the handset application may display the message Camera flash set to on. Please start camera and check flash operation. . After displaying the message the handset application displays the message Is camera flash working now and both a flash not working option and a flash working option. If the user responds to the message by selecting the flash working option the process depicted in terminates. If the user responds to the message by selecting the flash not working option the handset application responds to this user selection by displaying the message Reporting problem to customer service. A representative will contact you. . At this point the handset reports the flash problem for the camera to the customer service system and the process depicted in terminates. Although not shown the interfaces illustrated in may also include the settings interfaces and capabilities typically found on handsets .

Turning now to a flowchart of a method for handset self diagnostics is depicted according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The method for handset self diagnostics may begin when the user accesses the handset application with a request for assistance to operate the handset . The user may request assistance to operate the handset because the user may lack knowledge to operate all the various features of the handset . Such a request for assistance may often be met by offering the user access to the user manual . The user may also request assistance to operate the handset due to a handset problem which may be caused by handset software handset hardware or a combination of the handset software and the handset hardware. The boxes in the flowchart depicted in may be executed either in varying orders depending on the selections made by the user of the handset .

At block the user may obtain diagnostics data by accessing the handset application and user interfaces . The diagnostic engine on the handset is able to obtain diagnostic data from the handset which may be used to resolve the handset related problems. At block the user may obtain settings data and or user manual data to assist the user in resolving the problem with the handset. Finally at block when the diagnostics data settings data and manual data are unable to assist the user in resolving the handset issue the user may communicate with customer service regarding the problem. When the handset is unable to communicate or make a call the user may connect the handset to the user s computer wirelessly or via wired connection and thereafter employ the user s computer as a proxy to remotely communicate with the carrier system and customer service to obtain assistance in resolving the problem.

It should be appreciated that the diagnostic and other data and information collected may be stored on a storage device on the handset and periodically retrieved and communicated to other systems. Alternatively the diagnostic and other data and information might be collected from the handset and then transmitted without being stored or some data or portions of the data might be stored temporarily or otherwise and then transmitted to the relevant systems.

The handset includes a display and a touch sensitive surface or keys for input by a user. The handset may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The handset may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The handset may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the handset to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction.

Among the various applications executable by the handset are a web browser which enables the display to show a web page. The web page is obtained via wireless communications with a cell tower a wireless network access node or any other wireless communication network or system. The cell tower or wireless network access node is coupled to a wired network such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network the handset has access to information on various servers such as a server . The server may provide content that may be shown on the display .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the handset in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory . In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the handset to send and receive information from a cellular network or some other available wireless communications network. The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. The analog baseband processing unit may provide channel equalization and signal demodulation to extract information from received signals may modulate information to create transmit signals and may provide analog filtering for audio signals. To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the handset to be used as a cell phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration.

The DSP may send and receive digital communications with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments these digital communications may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB interface and the infrared port . The USB interface may enable the handset to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the handset to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the handset to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the handset . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the handset to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the handset to determine its position. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

One or more applications or systems described above may be implemented on any general purpose computer with sufficient processing power memory resources and network throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it. illustrates a typical general purpose computer system which may be used as the computer carrier and or manufacturer diagnostic computers suitable for implementing one or more embodiments disclosed herein. The computer system includes a processor which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU that is in communication with memory devices including secondary storage read only memory ROM random access memory RAM input output I O devices and network connectivity devices . The processor may be implemented as one or more CPU chips.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage. The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage .

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices. The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA and or global system for mobile communications GSM radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in optical media for example optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed referred to herein as the transmission medium may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be coupled through some interface or device such that the items may no longer be considered directly coupled to each other but may still be indirectly coupled and in communication whether electrically mechanically or otherwise with one another. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

