---

title: Sensor and polarimetric filters for real-time extraction of polarimetric information at the focal plane
abstract: A polarimetric imaging system employs a pixel pitch matched filter for use within, for example, a 2 by 2 pixel neighborhood, in which one pixel samples the scene via a 0 degree polarization filter and a second pixel samples the scene via a 45 degree polarization filter. The remaining two pixels record the intensity of the light within the 2 by 2 neighborhoods. The polarization filters employ organic materials such as polymers or metallic materials that are patterned and etched using reactive ion etching (RIE) or other appropriate etching technique in order to create 14 micron or smaller circular (or square) periodic structures that are patterned into polarization thin films that are deposited on an imaging sensor that includes a processor that computes from the polarization-filtered inputs the first three Stokes parameters in real-time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07582857&OS=07582857&RS=07582857
owner: The Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania
number: 07582857
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060418
---
Development of the present invention was supported in part by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research AFOSR under grant number FA9550 05 1 0052. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to imaging using the polarization properties of light and more particularly to a sensor and polarimetric filters for use in extracting polarimetric information at the focal plane in real time and a method of making such sensors and filters.

Polarization vision contains important information about the imaged environment such as surface shapes curvature and material properties which are ignored with traditional imaging systems. Several species of invertebrate such as cuttlefish honeybees desert ants and others rely on contrast enhancement using polarized vision which is a vital survival mechanism in optically scattering media. The unaided human eye perceives visual information in terms of color and brightness but it cannot effectively sense and utilize polarization. Accordingly it is desired to develop an imaging system capable of extracting polarization information from the imaged environment in real time and presenting the polarization information in parallel with the intensity information. The sensory system of the invention integrates imaging a micro polarization array and polarization processing at the focal plane to provide such an imaging system.

A survey of the literature reveals that most polarization sensitive imaging systems compute contrast enhancement information. This information is extracted by either temporally sampling two images filtered with two orthogonal polarized filters or integrating two orthogonal polarized filters over two neighboring photo elements. The contrast extraction information is computed either on a DSP CPU or at the focal plane with translinear circuits. Usual tradeoffs in these systems are reduction of frame rate versus reduction of the spatial resolution in the latter systems. Incorporating pixel pitch matched polarization filters at the focal plane has been achieved using birefringence materials or thin film polarizers. Although these sensory systems are directly inspired from biological systems they present limited polarization information in scattered media such as fog under water imaging and others. In contrast complete polarization information tends to be far more complex and its computational demands prevent real time extraction. These complex polarization properties are fully described by the fundamental parameters known as the Stokes parameters. As will be explained in more detail herein in order to fully determine the Stokes parameters of natural polychromatic light the scene must be sampled with three different polarization filters.

A micro polarization array with two spatially distributed polarizers has been fabricated and described by Guo et al. as described in an article entitled Fabrication of high resolution micropolarizer array Vol. 36 No. 8 pp. 2268 2271 1997 . Manipulation of polymer polarization filters in order to create a micro polarizer array has been described by Faris in U.S. Pat. No. 5 327 285. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art one of the main challenges in manipulating a relatively thick polymer polarizing filter is the patterning and etching of the structures within 1 m accuracy. The thickness of commercially available polymer polarization thin films varies between 10 m to 20 m which creates problems when standard etching techniques employed in the semiconductor industry are used to create micro structures on the order of 10 m or less.

Traditional imaging systems focus on converting light s intensity and color property into suitable electronic signals. An important property of light polarization is ignored with these traditional imaging systems. Polarization vision contains information about the imaged environment such as surface shapes curvature and material properties. Real time extraction of polarization properties would further allow synergy with traditional adaptive spatiotemporal image processing techniques for synthetic imaging. However to date no camera has enabled computation of the Stokes parameters in real time using a single camera for conventionally at least three cameras are needed each with a different polarization filter or a single camera sequentially computes the Stokes parameters by sequentially imaging with different filters. The present invention has been designed to provide for such real time extraction using a specially designed polarimetric sensor including a two layer micro polarizer array in combination with a photo pixel array noise suppression circuitry and on chip processing circuitry for polarimetric computation of the Stokes parameters of a partially polarized polychromatic light in real time.

An image sensor has been developed with real time polarimetric extraction capability at the focal plane using low power analog circuits. The imaging system using such sensors is capable of computing the first three Stokes parameters or two polarization parameters plus intensity at the focal plane in real time. In order to fully describe the polarization state of polychromatic light in nature three linear polarized projections or two linear polarized projections in combination with the total intensity are required. Since the natural lights are mostly polychromatic the phase information between the various components is usually not available or statistically random or lost . Therefore of the usual four Stokes parameters the first three are more important and relevant for natural polychromatic lights. That is why only the first three Stokes parameters are addressed.

A two layer micro polarizer array with total thickness of around 20 m has been fabricated and mounted on top of the imaging sensor. The image sensor comprises a 256 by 256 photo pixel array noise suppression circuitry and analog or digital processing circuitry for polarimetric computation in the current or voltage domain. The image sensor was fabricated in 0.18 m process with 10 m pixel pitch and 75 fill factor. Block parallel pixel read out is employed in order to compute the first three Stokes parameters on a neighborhood of 2 by 2 pixels. The Stokes parameters are presented together with the noise suppressed intensity image.

The present invention may be understood more readily by reference to the following detailed description of illustrative and preferred embodiments taken in connection with the accompanying that form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that the scope of the claims is not limited to the specific devices methods conditions or parameters described and or shown herein and that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed invention. Also as used in the specification including the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular value unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Where range of values is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. All ranges are inclusive and combinable.

Polarization is a phenomenon observed in transverse waves. These are waves that vibrate in a direction perpendicular to their direction of propagation. Since light is a transverse wave it can be represented as a sum of waves vibrating in generally partially random directions perpendicular to the line of propagation. If the vibration is consistently in a particular direction the light is linearly polarized. Partial polarization of light usually occurs once the unpolarized light is reflected from a given surface or it has passed through a polarization filter.

The electric field vector of a light wave traveling in the z direction can be represented as a composition of the electric field vectors oscillating in the x y plane. cos cos 1 In equation 1 circumflex over x and are unit vectors along the x and y axes t with being the radian frequency and are the phases while Eand Eare the magnitude of the electric field in the x and y directions respectively. For a monochromatic case depending on the relative difference between the phase and the transverse wave can be elliptically polarized if constant circularly polarized if 2 or linearly polarized if 0.

The Stokes parameters presented by equations 2 through 5 below describe fully the polarization state of the electric field vector E 2 3 2cos 4 2sin 5 These equations are the traditional representation of the Stokes parameters. Following the Stokes equations the polarization state can also be described if the following three quantities are known E Eand . After some simple algebraic manipulations one can write S I 6 2 0 0 7 2 45 0 8 2 45 2 9 where Iis the total intensity I 0 0 is the intensity of the e vector filtered with a 0 degree polarizer and no phase compensation between the x and y components I 45 0 is the intensity of the e vector filtered with a 45 degree polarizer and no phase compensation as above and I 45 2 is the intensity of the e vector filtered with a 45 degree polarizer and 2 phase compensator between the x and y components. The first three Stokes parameters S S and Sfully describe the polarization of light with two linearly polarized intensities and the total intensity of the e field vector. The fourth parameter describes the excess of right circularly polarized component over the left circularly polarized portion which is less common in man made and natural wave sources and it is not of interest in the present application. It is important to point out that for a partially polarized polychromatic light in nature the measurement of the fourth Stokes parameter is not essential since in these scenarios the phase between the two orthogonal components of polarization is usually statistically random. Therefore for natural scenes the first three Stokes parameters are usually of more interest and thus only 3 independent measurements are needed in order to find the first three Stokes parameters.

Thus in order to describe the polarization state of light in nature three linear polarized projections or two linear polarized projections in combination with the total intensity are needed. The latter method is preferred for focal plane implementation since it only requires two thin film polarizers rotated by 45 degrees patterned and placed adjacent to each other. The total thickness of the two layer micro polarizer array can be around 20 m if a commercially available thin film polarizer is used.

An overview of the complete polarimetric imaging system of the invention is illustrated in . The imaging sensor consists of a 256 by 256 photo pixels array of CMOS elements reset and addressing registers for selecting pixels in both horizontal and vertical directions a correlated double sampling unit and a digitally controlled analog processing unit that includes circuitry for computing the Stokes parameters in accordance with the techniques of the invention. Of course the processing unit also may be a digital processing unit if so desired. Also the pixel elements may be voltage mode active pixel sensors or current mode active pixel sensors APS . Two thin film polarizers are individually patterned and deposited on top of the imaging array in order to form the pattern illustrated in . The thin film patterns and the photo pixel architecture allow for block parallel access of 2 by 2 pixels neighborhood. The polarization state of the pixel neighborhood is computed by scaling individual pixels according to the first three Stokes equations 6 though 8 as illustrated in .

As noted above image processing at the focal plane can be implemented in the analog or digital domain. In the analog domain these circuits can be implemented in the current mode as described by V. Gruev and R. Etienne Cummings in Implementation of Steerable Spatiotemporal Image Filters On The Focal Plane IEEE Trans. Circuits and Systems II Analog and Digital Signal Processing Vol. 49 No. 4 pp. 233 244 April 2002 or in the voltage domain by using switch capacitors circuits as described by Un Ku Moon in CMOS high frequency switched capacitor filters for telecommunication applications IEEE Journal of Solid State Circuits Vol. 35 No. 2 pp. 212 220 February 2000. Both of these approaches have been extensively covered in the literature where more details on the advantages and disadvantages of each method can be found. Including an analog to digital converter ADC and a digital processing unit at the focal plane is another avenue of research in the system on a chip research community. In these architectures multi chip systems or a complicated digital system on chip are needed. Typically the imaging and ADC is performed on one chip while the computation is performed in the digital domain on a second chip as described by S. Mendis et al. in CMOS Active Pixel Image Sensors For Highly Integrated Imaging Systems IEEE J. Solid State Circuits Vol. 32 No. 2 p 187 197 1997 and by C. Sodini J. Gealow Z. Talib and I. Masaki in Integrated Memory Logic Architecture For Image Processing Proc. 11th Int. Conf. VLSI Design pp. 304 309 1998. High power consumption complex inter chip interconnections and poor scalability are the usual limitations. A single chip solution has been discussed by M. Schwarz et al. in Single Chip CMOS Image Sensors for a Retina Implant System IEEE Trans. Circuits and Systems II Vol. 46 No. 7 pp 870 877 1999 where the imaging ADC and digital processing are included at the focal plane however a very small percentage of the chip is used for imaging.

As illustrated in each photo pixel in the image array of the imaging unit is composed of transistors M through M. Transistors M and M control the operational mode of the photodiode PD. These two transistors allow individual pixels to be reset sequentially. Hence a single noise correction circuitry is used for the entire array and it bypasses the column fixed pattern noise problems which are associated with column parallel read out. Transistors M and M operate as linear transconductance amplifiers and they linearly convert the integrated voltage on the photodiode PD into two output currents. The output photo currents are presented on two separate column busses labeled I and I which are individually addressed via transistors M and M.

The linear photo current conversion is achieved by pinning the drain voltage of transistors M and M to V voltage while the reset voltage Vdd reset is fixed to V V. Therefore during the reset period of the pixel the gate voltage of transistor M M will be a threshold voltage below the drain voltage and transistor M M operates in the linear mode. During the integration period the gate voltage of transistors M and M will further discharge and transistors M and M will remain in the linear mode. Switch transistors M through M are designed with high aspect ratios in order to decrease the voltage drop across these switches and therefore retain linear output current characteristics of the photo pixel.

The drain voltage of transistor M M is pinned to V via the second generation current conveyer circuit shown in . This current conveyor circuit is composed of a two stage operational amplifier OA with a Miller compensation capacitor not shown operated in a negative feedback mode via transistor M. The gain bandwidth product of the operational amplifier OA is 50 MHz and DC gain Ais 80 dB. Due to its negative feedback configuration the negative terminal of the operational amplifier OA is pinned to V V . The input resistance of the current conveyer is estimated by Equation 10 below in which gis the transconductance of M.

The minimum output current from the photo pixel is 3 A during the reset interval and the input resistance of the current conveyer circuit is around 10 . The input capacitance of the current conveyer circuit consists of 256 gate to drain overlap capacitances plus the line capacitance of the metal bus which is 2.5 mm long. With a total input capacitance of around 100fF the time constant of the current conveyer circuit is Ins or operational bandwidth of 1 Grad s or 159 MHz. The operational amplifier OA further improves the tracking of the input voltage of the current conveyer circuit as the input current is increased. The variations of the input terminal of the current conveyer circuit over 10 A input range is less than 1 V.

The noise suppression circuitry of the invention is based on a known memory cell described by Hughes et al. in an article entitled SI the Seamless SI Switched Current Cell ISCAS 97 pp. 113 116 June 1997. The current memory cell CDS comprises a coarse and a fine sub memory cell. During the memorization stage of the coarse memory cell charge injection error dependent on the input current level is introduced. These signal dependent charge injections are memorized in the fine memory cell and subtracted from the coarse memory cell. The final memorized current can replicate the original current with 12 bit accuracy.

The noise suppression of the photo pixel is performed in two steps. Initially the integrated photo current is memorized in the current memory cell for each Stokes parameter. Then the pixel is reset and the reset photo current is automatically subtracted from the integrated photo current. The final current output is independent of the voltage threshold variations of transistor M and M.

The last part of the processing unit is the digitally controlled analog processing unit . In this processing unit the output current from each CDS unit is scaled at each scaling unit by each respective Stokes parameter accordingly to the Stokes equations noted above. The scaling coefficient is represented as a in . Regulated cascaded mirrors are used throughout the processing unit allowing for better computational precision.

As will now be explained with reference to a commercially available thin film polarizer is used to create an array of micro polarizers. As shown in the thin film polarizer comprises an iodine doped Polyvinyl Alcohol PVA layer which acts as a dense array of thin microscopic wires. These microscopic wires are formed by mechanically stretching the polymer film allowing the molecules of the PVA to align in the direction of stretching. The size of the thin microscopic wires has to be 1 10th or smaller of the light s wavelength in order to behave as an effective polarizer. Hence for blue light wavelengths or 450 nm wavelength the distance between the microscopic wires should be on the order of 45 nm or less. The mechanically stretching of the polymer creates very good 10 m thick polarization filters for the visible spectrum with extinction ratios of 60 dB in the blue and green spectrum and 40 dB in the red spectrum. As shown in the PVA thin film is placed between two 300 m thick transparent Cellulose Acetate Butyrate CAB or polyethylene layers . The CAB layers provide structural stability to the fragile and thin PVA layer .

In order to be able to manipulate the PVA layer at least one of the protective CAB layers must be removed. Since CAB is a form of acetate it is therefore acetone soluble. Hence the sample is submerged in an acetone bath for 30 minutes. One side of the sample is taped with an acetone resistant tape to a glass substrate. The tape provides acetone protection for the bottom CAB layer which is necessary in order to have limited structural stability for the PVA layer . The sample is rinsed with de ionized water DI in order to remove the softened CAB layer . The DI water also solidifies the CAB layer upon which the sample is submerged in the acetone bath again. These two steps are repeated several times until no residual CAB layer remains on the PVA as shown in .

The bottom CAB layer has two great disadvantages in contrast to its supporting purpose for the PVA layer . The high thickness of 300 m would limit the incident angle of the impeding light wave. If the incident wave comes under a small angle with respect to an axes perpendicular to the PVA layer the wave is filtered by one polarized filter and registered by another photodiode on the sensor. This would create erroneous results in the polarimetric computation. Hence only waves parallel to the optical axes can be used in such a system which would limit the field of view of the system. Another more serious problem of the CAB is its etching affinity to the RIE gases. As the PVA thickness tends to vary within a small area exact timing of the etching procedure can not be determined. If the etching process is prolonged more than necessary the optical properties of the CAB layer will be strongly degraded. Therefore the CAB supporting layer is replaced with an SU 8 cross linked hard baked developed photoresist which is optically transparent and resistant during the etching process of the PVA . This is performed by spin coating an SU 8 photoresist on top the PVA exposing it to an ultraviolet source developing and hard baking it. One important aspect of the SU 8 is that various thicknesses can be deposited on top of the PVA ranging from submicron until 1 mm thickness as shown in .

The next step is to remove the bottom CAB layer in order to be able to pattern the PVA layer . This step is similar as the initial step where a repeated acetone bath and DI water rinsing is used. The final structure after this process is shown in .

The remaining steps describe the patterning and etching process of the first layer of PVA in accordance with invention. These steps are performed as follows 

The next step is to attach a second layer of PVA and pattern it with the desired mask pattern. A couple of approaches were explored for this step. The most adequate steps are to place a layer of PVA on top of the first layer using SU 8 as an adhesion material. Following the adhesion procedure the second layer of PVA is patterned. These steps are described below 

Cold plasma or RIE has been widely used to modify or etch polymers. The etching process of polymers is linearly dependent on the concentration of the atomic oxygen free radicals or on the number of oxygen atoms consumed during the etching process. Since the PVA is an unsaturated polymer the etching process is represented as an addition to unsaturated moieties. The addition of oxygen to the unsaturated PVA creates a saturated radical with a weakened C C bond. Any subsequent attack by free oxygen radicals will break the bond scission the saturated molecule and will create CO and CObyproducts see Equation 11 

In order to increase the etching rate of the PVA the concentration of oxygen atoms must be increased. This is achieved with the addition of fluorine gases such as CF CF CF SFand others. In an experiment CFwas used to enhance the etching rate of the PVA. The enhanced etching rate is due to increased density of electrons as well as increased energies of electrons in the RIE. At the molecular level the addition of fluorine atoms will weaken the C C bond of the PVA molecule and it will create a saturated radical prone to chain scission. The byproducts of this reaction are fluorinated ethane and ethylene derivative.

These stable fluorine products will remain on the surface of the PVA. If the concentration of the fluorine atoms is increased beyond a threshold fluorinated ethane will have retarding effects on the etching rate due to its byproducts residuals on the surface of the PVA. Hence the etching rate exhibits a maximum for a given concentration ratio of Oand CFand it rapidly decreases with the increase decrease of the CFconcentration.

An alternative way to realize a micropolarizer in accordance with the invention is to use an array of closely spaced metallic wires. The electromagnetic wave i.e. the light that has an electric field perpendicular to the wires will go through the wire grid while the wave whose field is parallel to the grid will be reflected. The metal pitch must be of the order of the wavelength and the wire width should be considerably smaller than the wavelength. This implies that advanced lithographic techniques are required to fabricate these wire grid polarizers. Such wire grid polarizers are commercially available in which the metal grid is sandwiched between two transparent plates typically between a glass and plastic plate. These polarizers are uniform across their whole surface. For use as a micropolarizer in accordance with the invention the inventors etch away part of the metal grid to form a mosaic of small about 10 m 10 m wire grid islands corresponding to the dimensions of the pixels. A second wire grid rotated by a certain amount typically 45 or 90 is etched in a similar fashion and glued on top of the first wire grid such that the patterns are offset in a checker board pattern corresponding to the pattern shown in . A brief description of the steps involved in the etching of the wire grid polarizers is given below with respect to .

As illustrated in starting with a wire grid polarizer including a metal grid sandwiched between a transparent glass plate and a Cellulose Acetate Butyrate CAB layer the first step is the removal of the top protective CAB layer which is usually a polymer and . By immersing the top CAB layer into acetone or another suitable solution one can easily remove this CAB layer . This will leave the metallic wire grid exposed as shown in . Using standard lithographic techniques a mosaic pattern is defined in the metal layer. To do this a photoresist positive resist is shown in the figure but a negative resist can be used as well is first deposited and the resulting layers are soft baked and exposed to UV light using a mask that contains the pattern to be defined on the wire grid . After developing the photoresist the exposed metal layer is etched using dry etching techniques . Following etching of the metal layer the photoresist is removed. This process is repeated for the second wire grid polarizer but the second wire grid polarizer is rotated by 45 or 90 or an appropriate angle compared to the first wire grid polarizer . In a next step a thin layer of SU 8 resist or another suitable material is deposited on top of the etched wire grid . The two wire grid polarizers are then glued together as shown in such that a pattern is formed as shown in . Next the glass layers and on top and bottom are removed . This structure can then be aligned and glued on top of the underlying silicon chip.

Another method to form the wire grid polarizer is to deposit a thin metal film directly on top of the silicon wafer or the chip. This can be done by sputtering electron beam evaporation or chemical vapor deposition. A typical metal is aluminum. Using advanced lithographic techniques that allow the definition of very small features such as electron beam lithography nano imprint lithography shadow mark or any other suitable method the thin metal layers are defined corresponding to the two polarization orientations e.g. 0 and 45 . A photoresist is deposited on the thin metal layer. Using lithography one may define the desired pattern in the photoresist. After developing the photoresist the underlying thin metal layer is etched to realize the finely spaced metal grids on top of the underlying pixels corresponding to the pattern of .

The architectural design of the photo pixel and the addressing circuitry allows for block parallel access of 2 by 2 photo pixels. As shown in the circuitry shown in is applied to all four pixels within the window of polarimetric computation. The outputs from all four pixels are connected together in order to complete the computation of the Stokes parameters. The computation of the first three Stokes parameters can be generalized by the following equation 12 

Table I shows the general characteristics of the sensor chip in an embodiment of the invention. The measured precision of the CDS unit is 10 bits and processing bandwidth of 100 MHz. Another important aspect of the design is the high linearity of the photo pixel due to the high aspect ratios of the switch transistors and high accuracy of the second generation current conveyer. The linearity is very close to the measured results.

A sensory architecture for real time polarimetric imaging is described herein. The sensory system includes imaging array micro polarizer array and processing unit at the focal plane for polarization extraction capability. The sensory system is capable of real time extraction of the Stokes parameters and present them in parallel together with a noise suppressed intensity image. The invention provides the methodology necessary to pattern and etch 10 m thick PVA polarizer in order to create 14 m circular structures. These methods of the invention allow patterning of 10 m or smaller square structures. The final array of micro polarizers is mounted on top of a custom made image sensor for real time polarimetric computation. These features and other characteristic features of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following claims.

