---

title: Automatic location-based resource management for network devices
abstract: A system and method for automatically managing resource usage of a network device based on device location. In an illustrative embodiment, the system includes a first module that is coupled to a network device. The first module provides position information associated with the network device. A controller communicates with the first module; receives the position information; and generates a control signal in response thereto based on predetermined network information. A second module that is coupled to the network device incorporates instructions to adjust the resource usage of the network device upon receipt of the control signal. In a more specific embodiment, the first module includes a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver. The predetermined network information includes network coverage area. The resource usage includes power usage. The second module includes instructions for turning off a receiver, which is coupled to the first module, based on the control signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08014833&OS=08014833&RS=08014833
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08014833
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060628
---
This invention is related in general to networks and more specifically to systems and methods for selectively controlling network resource usage.

For the purposes of the present discussion a network resource may be any network entity or characteristic or associated identifier. Examples of network entities include computers switches interfaces software batteries and so on. Examples of characteristics or identifiers include communications link bandwidth power consumption router processor speed network services and so on.

Systems for controlling network resource usage are employed in various demanding applications including wireless network handoff 802.11 network coverage area transitioning server load balancers and so on. Such applications often demand efficient resource control systems that can minimize unnecessary power consumption and other resource usage.

Systems for efficiently controlling network resources are particularly important in wireless network applications such as 802.11 networks and cellular networks where resource usage may rapidly change as different mobile devices connect to the networks or as the networks themselves move. In such applications wireless routers are often employed to create local mobile hotspots by which nearby users can connect forming a local network. If the wireless router is within the coverage area of another network such as a nearby Wide Area Network WAN the wireless router may facilitate connecting the local network to the WAN. If the wireless router moves beyond the coverage area of the WAN communications between the wireless router and the WAN terminate. Hence wireless networks are susceptible to various topology changes as a wireless routers and devices communicating with the wireless routers change or move. Unfortunately wireless networks often lack efficient mechanisms to control network resource usage as network topology changes.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention implements a system and method for automatically managing resource usage of a network device based on device location. The system includes a first module that is coupled to a network device. The first module selectively provides position information associated with the network device. A controller is adapted to receive the position information and to generate a control signal in response thereto based on predetermined network information. A second module which is coupled to the network device incorporates instructions to adjust the resource usage of the network device upon receipt of the control signal. In a more specific embodiment the first module includes a Global Positioning System GPS receiver the predetermined network information includes network coverage area the resource usage includes power usage and the second module includes instructions for turning off a receiver based on the control signal.

For clarity various well known components such as firewalls Internet Service Providers ISPs Application Programming Interfaces APIs and so on have been omitted from the figures. However those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings will know which components to implement and how to implement them to meet the needs of a given application.

For illustrative purposes enhanced MAR which includes the location based resource management system is located outside the coverage area of wireless AP . Location based resource management system of enhanced MAR receives GPS information from GPS satellites via GPS receiver system . Enhanced MAR selectively employs a second transceiver system to communicate with network APs such as access point . When MARs are operating in WorkGroup Bridge WGB mode MARs may act as access points. For example when first MAR is operating in WBG mode first MAR may exhibit MAR coverage area. For clarity the MAR coverage area of first MAR coincides with coverage area of wireless AP .

Enhanced MAR exhibits transmission range which corresponds to the coverage area of enhanced MAR when enhanced MAR is operating in WGB mode.

In operation location based resource management system implements routines for selectively adjusting resource usage of enhanced MAR based on location information received from GPS receiver system predetermined knowledge of the coverage area of surrounding APs such as wireless AP and predetermined knowledge of transmission range of MAR . For example when location based resource management system determines that enhanced MAR is outside of coverage area of wireless AP and first MAR location based resource management system issues resource management control signals. The resource management control signals are effective to turn off second transceiver system and to terminate or deactivate any services and or related applications running on or employed by enhanced MAR that require enhanced MAR to be within coverage area of wireless AP and or first MAR .

Conventionally when a MAR extends beyond a coverage area of another AP such as wireless AP or beyond the coverage of a MAR operating on WGB mode such as first MAR the MAR continues to employ resources such as transceiver resources to scan for other APs or MARs operating in WGB mode. This results in excess power consumption which is particularly problematic for mobile devices which often rely on batteries with limited power sourcing capabilities.

Accordingly use of the present embodiment to selectively turn off or otherwise optimally control device resources such as transceiver power employed by enhanced MAR may result in reduced power consumption extended battery life and so on.

While the present embodiment is discussed with respect to an exemplary network topology the present invention is not limited thereto. For example WLAN may be replaced with another network such as the Internet without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore more or fewer APs may be employed and wireless 802.11 AP may be replaced with an IEEE 802.16 Wi MAX AP cellular base station or other type of network AP without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In operation resource management module periodically receives position information from GPS module pertaining to location of MAR . Exact time intervals at which resource management module receives position updates from GPS module are application specific and may adjusted to meet the needs of a given application without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Resource management module which may be implemented in hardware and or software compares the latest MAR position information received from GPS module with network information such as topology information. With reference to in the present embodiment the topology information includes data pertaining to coverage area of wireless AP . The topology information is maintained in topology map module .

Based on the comparison and based on knowledge of the range of wireless card and or other information resource management module determines when enhanced MAR passes outside coverage area . When MAR passes outside coverage area use of certain device resources is no longer needed. The device resources are then turned off deactivated or otherwise adjusted based on the position of enhanced MAR .

The device resources may include wireless card other hardware resources and software resources . Examples of software resources include service modules and applications requiring communication with wireless AP of . Examples of other hardware resources include connected computers external hard drives and or other devices that a user determines should be selectively disabled based on the location of enhanced MAR .

A user may employ user interface to configure rules employed by resource management module to adjust resources based on the position of enhanced MAR . For example a user may decide to cause wireless card to periodically power on at predetermined time intervals when outside the coverage area of wireless AP . For example a user may decide that resource management module should power on wireless card every ten minutes to check for other MARs operating in WGB mode and acting as APs that are within transmit range of enhanced MAR . Alternatively a user may configure resource management module to power off and or disable all resources that require communication with wireless AP until enhanced MAR is within coverage area . Similarly a user may configure resource management module to power on and or enable all resources that require communication with wireless AP when enhanced MAR is within coverage area of wireless AP .

Those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings may readily develop modules such as resource management module required to meet the needs of a given implementation of the present invention.

CDMA network includes CDMA base station that is associated with cellular coverage area . CDMA network includes second enhanced MAR in wireless communication with CDMA base station . CDMA base station communicates with core network which may include the Internet Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other networks. CDMA network may be implemented via another type of network such as a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Analog Mobile Phone System and or a Global System for Mobility Management GSM system without departing from the scope of the present invention. Furthermore 802.11 network may be implemented via another type of network such as a Wi MAX network.

First enhanced MAR employs first resource management module included in first resource management system . First resource management module communicates with first GPS receiver system which includes first GPS receiver module and accompanying GPS antenna . First resource management module further communicates with first 802.11 transceiver system which includes first 802.11 transceiver module with an accompanying 802.11 antenna . First resource management module implements one or more routines in software and or hardware for selectively adjusting first set of 802.11 resources and first set of CDMA resources based on the location of first enhanced MAR relative to coverage area of wireless AP and CDMA coverage area .

Similarly second enhanced MAR employs second resource management module included in second resource management system . Second resource management module communicates with second GPS receiver system which includes second GPS receiver module and accompanying GPS antenna . Second resource management module further communicates with a CDMA transceiver system which includes a CDMA transceiver module with an accompanying CDMA antenna . Second resource management module implements one or more routines in software and or hardware for selectively adjusting a second set of 802.11 resources and a second set of CDMA resources based on the location of second enhanced MAR relative to coverage area of wireless AP and CDMA coverage area .

In operation first enhanced MAR is operating with 802.11 coverage area and outside of CDMA coverage area . Consequently according to the present specific embodiment first resource management module disables and or turns off first set of CDMA resources and enables and or turns on first set of 802.11 resources which may include 802.11 transceiver system . Similarly if first enhanced MAR travels outside of 802.11 coverage area and within CDMA coverage area first enhanced MAR will then turn off first set of 802.11 resources and turn on first set of CDMA resources .

Accordingly second enhanced MAR which operates within CDMA coverage area and outside of 802.11 coverage area employs second resource management module to disable second set of 802.11 resources and to enable second set of CDMA resources .

For the purposes of the present discussion 802.11 resources may be any resources such as services transmitters and applications that are employed to communicate with or depend on communication with an 802.11 AP such as wireless AP . Similarly CDMA resources may be any resources that are employed to communicate with or depend on communication with a CDMA base station mobile switching center or other CDMA network component such as CDMA base station .

While the present embodiment is discussed with respect to use of MARs other types of network devices may be employed without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example the MARs may be replaced with cellular telephones that are Wi Fi capable without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Method includes an initial rule determining step which involves determining resource control rules for adjusting resources and or related services used by a device and or accompanying network in response to predetermined conditions. The device may be implemented via any type of network computing device that employs resources that are useful in one geographic area and are not useful or are less useful in another geographic area. For example the network device may be a Cisco c3200 series MAR with an IEEE 802.11 g Wireless Mobile Interface Card WMIC a cellular phone and so on. The network may any type of network that exhibits a coverage area within which certain resources may be used by a device that is connected to the network. Examples of suitable networks include IEEE 802.11 networks cellular CDMA networks and so on. Examples of resources that may be selectively controlled include power consumption router zeroization software for clearing router cache Network Address Translation NAT software and so on.

Subsequently monitoring step is performed wherein the location of the network device relative to a predetermined geographic area such as the coverage area of a network AP is monitored. If the device exits or is currently outside the predetermined geographic area as determined in subsequent exit checking step then first resource adjustment step is performed as needed.

First resource adjustment step includes selectively adjusting device resources and or services used in accordance with the resource control rules. The resources and or services used may be adjusted by powering off a transceiver of the device or other hardware and or software resources or otherwise placing the device in a power saving mode.

If exit checking step determines that the network device has not exited or is otherwise within the predetermined graphic area then subsequent enter checking step is performed.

If the network device has entered or is within the predetermined geographic area as determined by enter checking step then second resource adjustment step is performed.

Second resource adjustment step involves selectively adjusting device resources and or services used as needed in accordance with the resource control rules. The adjusting may include powering off a transceiver of the device or other hardware and or software resources.

If the network device has not entered a geographic area as determined in enter checking step then break checking step is performed. Break checking step is also performed upon completion of second resource adjustment step .

Break checking step determines if a system break has occurred. A system break may occur when the associated network device is turned off and or when software and or related hardware for implementing method is turned off or otherwise deactivated. If a system break has occurred method completes. Otherwise monitoring step continues.

Various steps of method may be omitted changed or reordered without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example method may be replaced with a more generalized method without departing from the scope of the present invention. An exemplary more generalized method provides a method for selectively managing network resources. The method includes detecting a change in network topology and then automatically adjusting resource usage of one or more devices external to the network based on the change in network topology.

While certain embodiments of the present invention are discussed with reference to systems and methods controlling resource usage by a device based on the location of the device relative to the coverage area of a wireless AP embodiments of the present invention are not limited thereto. For example embodiments of the present invention may be adapted for use with wired networks wherein the physical location of the device in the network topology may affect which resources the device should be able to employ without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Furthermore many types of networks either wired or wireless or combinations thereof may benefit systems constructed according to embodiments of the present invention. Any acceptable architecture topology protocols or other network and digital processing features can be employed. In general soft switches routers access points clients and so on can be implemented via any device with processing ability or other requisite functionality.

Although processes of the present invention and the hardware executing the processes may be characterized by language common to a discussion of the Internet e.g. client server peer it should be apparent that operations of the present invention can execute on any type of suitable hardware in any communication relationship to another device on any type of link or network.

Although a process of the present invention may be presented as a single entity such as software executing on a single machine such software can readily be executed on multiple machines. That is there may be multiple instances of a given software program a single program may be executing on two or more processors in a distributed processing environment parts of a single program may be executing on different physical machines etc. Furthermore two different programs such as a client and server program can be executing in a single machine or in different machines. A single program can be operating as a client for one information transaction and as a server for a different information transaction.

Any type of processing device can be used as a client. For example portable computing devices such as a Personal Digital Assistant PDA cell phone laptop computer or other devices can be employed. In general the devices and manner of specific processing including location and timing are not critical to practicing important features of the present invention.

Although the invention has been discussed with respect to specific embodiments thereof these embodiments are merely illustrative and not restrictive of the invention. Embodiments of the present invention can operate between any two processes or entities including users devices functional systems or combinations of hardware and software. Peer to peer networks and any other networks or systems where the roles of client and server are switched change dynamically or are not even present are within the scope of the invention.

Any suitable programming language can be used to implement the routines or other instructions employed by various network entities. Exemplary programming languages include C C Java assembly language etc. Different programming techniques can be employed such as procedural or object oriented. The routines can execute on a single processing device or multiple processors. Although the steps operations or computations may be presented in a specific order this order may be changed in different embodiments. In some embodiments multiple steps shown as sequential in this specification can be performed at the same time. The sequence of operations described herein can be interrupted suspended or otherwise controlled by another process such as an operating system kernel etc. The routines can operate in an operating system environment or as stand alone routines occupying all or a substantial part of the system processing.

In the description herein numerous specific details are provided such as examples of components and or methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that an embodiment of the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other apparatus systems assemblies methods components materials parts and or the like. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not specifically shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of embodiments of the present invention.

A machine readable medium or computer readable medium for purposes of embodiments of the present invention may be any medium that can contain and store the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus system or device. The computer readable medium can be by way of example only but not by limitation a semiconductor system apparatus system device or computer memory. A processor or process includes any hardware and or software system mechanism or component that processes data signals or other information. A processor can include a system with a general purpose central processing unit multiple processing units dedicated circuitry for achieving functionality or other systems. Processing need not be limited to a geographic location or have temporal limitations. For example a processor can perform its functions in real time offline in a batch mode etc. Portions of processing can be performed at different times and at different locations by different or the same processing systems. A computer may be any processor in communication with a memory.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or a specific embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention and not necessarily in all embodiments. Thus respective appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment or in a specific embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics of any specific embodiment of the present invention may be combined in any suitable manner with one or more other embodiments. It is to be understood that other variations and modifications of the embodiments of the present invention described and illustrated herein are possible in light of the teachings herein and are to be considered as part of the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in whole or in part by using one or more programmed general purpose digital computers by using application specific integrated circuits programmable logic devices field programmable gate arrays optical chemical biological quantum or nanoengineered systems or mechanisms and so on. In general the functions of the present invention can be achieved by any means as is known in the art. Distributed or networked systems components and or circuits can be used. Communication or transfer of data may be wired wireless or by any other means.

It will also be appreciated that one or more of the elements depicted in the drawings figures can also be implemented in a more separated or integrated manner or even removed or rendered as inoperable in certain cases as is useful in accordance with a particular application. It is also within the spirit and scope of the present invention to implement a program or code that can be stored in a machine readable medium to permit a computer to perform any of the methods described above.

Additionally any signal arrows in the drawings figures should be considered only as exemplary and not limiting unless otherwise specifically noted. Furthermore the term or as used herein is generally intended to mean and or unless otherwise indicated. Combinations of components or steps will also be considered as being noted where terminology is foreseen as rendering the ability to separate or combine is unclear.

As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Furthermore as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The foregoing description of illustrated embodiments of the present invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed herein. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes only various equivalent modifications are possible within the spirit and scope of the present invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize and appreciate. As indicated these modifications may be made to the present invention in light of the foregoing description of illustrated embodiments of the present invention and are to be included within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Thus while the present invention has been described herein with reference to particular embodiments thereof a latitude of modification various changes and substitutions are intended in the foregoing disclosures and it will be appreciated that in some instances some features of embodiments of the invention will be employed without a corresponding use of other features without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth. Therefore many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the essential scope and spirit of the present invention. It is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular terms used in following claims and or to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include any and all embodiments and equivalents falling within the scope of the appended claims.

