---

title: Upflow bioreactor having a septum and an auger and drive assembly
abstract: An upflow bioreactor includes a vessel having an inlet and an outlet configured for upflow operation. A septum is positioned within the vessel and defines a lower chamber and an upper chamber. The septum includes an aperture that provides fluid communication between the upper chamber and lower chamber. The bioreactor also includes an auger positioned in the aperture of the septum. The vessel includes an opening in the top for receiving the auger. The auger extends from a drive housing, which is position over the opening and provides a seal around the opening. The drive housing is adjustable relative to the vessel. The position of the auger in the aperture can be adjusted by adjusting the drive housing relative to the vessel. The auger adjustment mechanism allows the auger to be accurately positioned within the aperture. The drive housing can also include a fluid to provide an additional seal around the shaft of the auger.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07290669&OS=07290669&RS=07290669
owner: Utah State University
number: 07290669
owner_city: North Logan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061027
---
Work described herein has been supported in part by a grant from the United States Department of Agriculture and United States Department of Energy grant number 68 3A75 3 153. Therefore the Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to upflow bioreactors for decomposing organic materials. More particularly the present invention relates to an upflow bioreactor having an auger and drive assembly.

A bioreactor is a device that uses bacteria to promote the decomposition or digestion of organic waste material into simple organics and gaseous biogas products. Biogas is typically a mixture of methane carbon dioxide hydrogen sulfide and other volatile organic compounds. If produced in sufficient quantities the methane gas can be used as a fuel.

Anaerobic digestion in open storage vessels has historically been utilized in waste water management especially in livestock production to reduce or convert complex organic matter to a smaller volume. This method has proven to be economical by reducing the volume of waste handled and by volatilizing some metabolites into the atmosphere. One disadvantage of open storage vessels includes the inability to keep the anaerobic digestion process in balance resulting in the release of malodorous gases and inefficient incomplete conversion of digested organic matter into biogas. In addition the slow rate of digestion and the poor quality of methane gas yielded makes the economic recovery of methane gas generally unfeasible in open storage vessels.

Many attempts have been made to decompose organic waste using closed vessels. One type of closed vessel reactor that has shown high decomposition rates is the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor. In the reactor waste material is introduced into the bottom of the reactor and forced up through the vessel where it passes through a blanket of bacteria which decomposes the organic material and produces biogas that can be collected and used as a fuel.

To achieve high decomposition rates in an upflow bioreactor the bacterial culture should be well established. One important advantage of an upflow bioreactor is that it can be operated continuously. Thus once the bacterial culture is established the high rate of digestion can be maintained for an extended period of time e.g. months or even years .

Recently an upflow reactor has been developed that induces formation of the bacterial culture on startup and maintains a thicker or more enriched bacterial culture during operation. These benefits are achieved by placing a septum near the top of the fluid level of the reactor. The septum causes suspended solids to settle out of the fluid nearing the top of the reactor. These solids settle back into the sludge blanket where digestion continues. The solids that are retained by the septum often include bacteria. By retaining these solids in the digester the septum maintains a better bacterial culture and facilitates more complete digestion.

To allow the effluent to exit the digester the septum has an aperture. Since an aperture in an upflow bioreactor can plug an auger is placed in the aperture. The auger hangs from the top of the digester and slowly turns to keep the aperture clear of solids.

Upflow digesters that include a septum and an auger can be difficult to construct because of the need to accurately line up the auger within the aperture of the septum. In addition the top of the digester needs to be sealed to form a chamber for collecting biogas.

The present invention is directed to an upflow bioreactor for decomposing organic materials to produce biogas. The bioreactors include a septum for improved digestion and an auger that is placed in an aperture of the septum to reduce plugging. The auger is connected to the vessel through a drive assembly e.g. a gearbox and or motor . The auger and drive assembly includes an adjustment mechanism for aligning the auger within the aperture of the septum.

In an embodiment of the invention the bioreactor includes a vessel having an inlet an outlet and a top opening. A septum is positioned within the vessel and defines a lower chamber and an upper chamber. The septum has an aperture that provides fluid communication between the lower chamber and the upper chamber.

The top opening of the vessel allows a portion of the auger to exit the vessel and or allows a portion of a drive assembly to be positioned within the vessel. The auger and the drive assembly are operably coupled to form an auger and drive assembly that can rotate the auger in a desired direction.

The housing of the drive assembly is mounted over the top opening of the vessel and forms a gas seal around the top opening. The auger extends from the drive housing and through the aperture in the septum. The drive housing includes a mounting adjustment mechanism that allows the mounting of the drive housing to be adjusted relative to the vessel. An adjustment in the drive housing relative to the vessel translates into an adjustment of the position of the auger relative to the septum.

In one embodiment the adjustment mechanism includes i a compressible member positioned between the drive housing and the vessel and ii a plurality of spaced apart fasteners that upon tightening cause compression of the compressible member. The fasteners can be selectively compressed to cause non uniform compression of the compressible member. The non uniform compression causes the drive housing to tilt relative to the vessel. The tilting of the drive housing causes lateral movement of the auger relative to the septum.

One advantage of using a compressible member is that the lateral movement of the auger is generated from a pivoting motion with the pivot near the drive housing. Since the septum is a substantial distance away from the drive housing a small amount of pivoting near the drive housing causes a much larger lateral movement of the auger near the septum. Another advantage of using a compressible member between the drive housing and the vessel is that the compressible member can be used to provide a good gas seal around the top opening of the vessel.

In an alternative embodiment the adjustment mechanism includes a plurality of bolts that are movable within a slot. The slot is over sized such that there is a gap between the bolt and the slot when the bolt is positioned within the slot. The gap between the bolt and the slot provides the range of adjustability for the drive housing and thus the adjustability of the auger.

The bolts and slots can be in various configurations. For example in one embodiment the bolts are fixed to the vessel and the slots are incorporated into the drive housing. In an alternative embodiment the bolts can be fixed to the drive housing and the slots can be incorporated into a bracket attached to the vessel.

The mounting adjustment mechanism of the invention allows an auger to be accurately positioned within an aperture of a septum without the need to precision engineer the bioreactor vessel septum aperture and auger and drive assembly. In addition the auger and drive assembly can provide a good seal which allows biogas to be collected while allowing the auger to be easily adjusted. The adjustment mechanism of the present invention also allows the auger and drive assembly to be a single unit that can be easily removed for maintenance.

In one aspect of the invention the auger and drive assembly includes a fluid filled gearbox that is attached to the bioreactor vessel and forms a gas seal around a top opening in the vessel. The auger is operably connected to and suspended from the gearbox through a drive shaft. In this embodiment a gearbox bearing and the fluid within the gearbox provide a seal around the driveshaft that drives the auger. The gearbox and the auger form a single assembly that can be attached and removed from the bioreactor vessel as a single piece. Using the gearbox as a seal around a driveshaft used to operate the auger advantageously simplifies the task of sealing the opening in the digester for the auger.

These and other advantages and features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims as set forth hereinafter.

The upflow bioreactors of the present invention advantageously provide rapid decomposition of organic wastes. The bioreactors of the present invention include a septum that facilitates the retention of solids within the bioreactor and an auger that prevents the bioreactor from plugging. The auger is part of an auger and drive assembly. In one embodiment the auger and drive assembly includes an auger adjustment mechanism that allows the drive assembly to be adjusted with respect to the vessel which in turn results in a lateral adjustment of the auger with respect to the septum. The foregoing are an example of means for laterally adjusting the auger relative to the septum more particularly the aperture through the septum. According to another aspect of the invention the auger and drive assembly provide a gas seal around a top opening in the vessel of the bioreactor.

Bioreactor is configured for upflow operation. An inlet is provided in lower chamber for introducing organic material to be decomposed. A pump is typically coupled to inlet to provide pressure for introducing the organic material. An outlet is placed in upper chamber to allow effluent to exit bioreactor . The placement of inlet in lower chamber and the placement of outlet in upper chamber creates an upflow in bioreactor during operation. The upflow in bioreactor can be continuous or semi continuous.

Lower chamber includes a biomass . Biomass includes a microbial culture and organic material to be decomposed. The upflow in bioreactor is sufficiently slow that a sludge blanket of bacteria can form in the biomass of lower chamber . The organic material e.g. animal waste is slowly forced up through the sludge blanket where it is decomposed into smaller organic molecules and biogas. The microbial culture present in biomass is selected according to the particular organic material that is to be decomposed in bioreactor . In an exemplary embodiment the microbial culture comprises anaerobic bacteria. Anaerobic bacteria can be naturally occurring in some organic wastes e.g. non sterile animal manure .

Any organic material can be decomposed in bioreactor so long as a microbial culture is available for degrading the organic material and the organic material can be introduced into the bioreactor in a form that can be mixed with the microbes. Examples of suitable organic materials that can be digested in the bioreactors of the present invention include animal wastes produced from the farming ranching and agricultural industries food processing waste human waste and the like.

In one embodiment the type of microbial culture and type of organic material are selected such that the decomposition of the organic material produces biogas. Upper chamber can be sealed such that biogas collects within upper chamber . A gas outlet allows the biogas to be ported out of bioreactor . The biogas can advantageously be used as a fuel. For example if desired the biogas can be burned and the heat can be used to maintain an optimal operating temperature in bioreactor .

Septum is positioned within vessel below fluid level . Septum can be rigid or semi rigid and can be made from any material compatible with the bioreactor fluids including but not limited to plastics metals and the like. Septum can be formed from a plurality of panels or it can be a single unitary piece of material. Septum can be secured to the inside of the vessel in any manner.

In one embodiment septum slopes upwardly from the sidewalls of vessel toward aperture . Sloping septum can facilitate the removal of materials that settle out in upper chamber . A sloped septum can also be advantageous for ensuring that biogas in lower chamber is directed to aperture . However the present invention can also be carried out using a flat septum.

An auger is positioned within aperture of septum . Auger can be any device that can be positioned within aperture and can move solids in a desired direction between or within upper and lower chambers and . In an exemplary embodiment the auger includes a shaft with one or more flanges that are configured to move a material in a direction parallel to the shaft. Auger shown in includes a shaft and a continuously spiraling flange .

In one embodiment auger creates a force that is opposite the flow of fluids in the bioreactor. For example auger can have a flange such that when auger is rotated clockwise the auger creates a force that is opposite the flow of the bioreactor fluids. During optimal or normal operating conditions auger is rotated in the direction that counters the flow of the bioreactor fluids. This counter flow force tends to settle out solids suspended in the effluent passing through aperture . If aperture becomes clogged the auger can be rotated in an opposite direction to remove solids to above the septum where the solids can be more easily removed.

Auger and septum are provided to help form and maintain biomass . By retaining the bacteria within the lower chamber septum and auger retain more bacteria which are available for breaking down the organic material being fed into bioreactor . By utilizing the auger and septum organic materials can be treated much faster and much more efficiently than organic waste being digested in other bioreactors. In addition use of the septum and auger improves the clarity of effluent exiting the bioreactor.

Gearbox is configured to be attached to spacer bracket . Gearbox includes a drive housing that includes a flange . Flange has a plurality of holes that allow drive housing to be attached to spacer bracket using a plurality of bolts . Spacer bracket includes a plurality of holes that align with the holes of flange to receive bolts . Bolts can be secured to flange and spacer using a plurality of nuts attached in a known fashion. In this embodiment other known fastening mechanisms can be used in place of bolts and nuts so long as the mechanism is adjustable.

Compressible member is positioned between bracket and flange . Compressible member spacer bracket and flange are configured to create a seal around opening in the top of vessel . To maintain a sealed gas chamber in the top of vessel drive assembly creates a seal around opening . In one embodiment spacer bracket is welded to vessel and compressible member maintains a seal between bracket and drive housing when drive housing is attached thereto.

In one embodiment of the invention drive housing is part of a drive mechanism that rotates shaft . In one embodiment the drive mechanism is a gearbox that includes a drive shaft and a plurality of gears within gearbox . The drive shaft extends from a wall of gearbox and a bearing in the wall provides a fluid seal around the shaft . A lubricant within the gearbox provides a gas seal over the fluid sealed bearing. Those skilled in the art are familiar with gearboxes drive shafts and bearings that seal drive shafts. Using the gearbox as a seal for the drive mechanism to the auger is advantageous because it simplifies the number of pieces needed to form the gas seal and facilitates an auger and drive assembly that is one single unit that can be easily installed removed or repaired.

For example shows fastener more tightly threaded than fastener thereby selectively compressing the portion of compressible member near fastener The selective compression of a member causes drive assembly and auger to tilt. When drive assembly tilts the position of auger moves laterally with respect to septum . Selectively compressing member allows auger to be positioned within a desired location in aperture .

The amount of lateral adjustability depends on the thickness of the compressible member the extent to which member can be compressed and the distance between compressible member and aperture . The amount that the drive assembly and auger pivot depends on the amount that the compressible member is selectively compressed. However because the motion is a pivoting motion the lateral movement of the auger relative to the septum depends on the distance that the septum is from the pivot point. Therefore small changes in the compression of member translate into a relatively large lateral movement of auger relative to septum .

In an embodiment of the invention the distance between compressible member and aperture of septum is in a range from 0.5 meter to 2 meters alternatively in a range from 1 meter to 1.5 meter. In one embodiment the thickness of compressible member is at least inch alternatively at least inch or at least inch. Compressible member can be made from any material that can be compressed while providing a seal. An example of a suitable material includes rubber. The compressible member is preferably elastically deformable such that releasing the compressive force results in an expansion. However if desired materials that plastically deform when compressed can also be used with the caveat that once compressed they will not spontaneously return to a more expanded condition when the compressive force is released.

The present invention can be carried out using any number of adjustable fasteners i.e. one or more fasteners . Providing at least three spaced apart fasteners has the advantage of allowing selective compression within a plane which translates into selective movement of the auger in all directions relative to the plane of the septum.

In yet another alternative embodiment the auger adjustment mechanism comprises a bolt and hole pattern that allows substantial lateral movement of a bolt within the mounting holes of flange and or spacer bracket . show a top view of a spacer bracket with oversized mounting holes . Bolts which extend through holes of drive housing can be selectively moved within mounting holes . In bolts are in a first position and in bolts are shifted laterally to a second position. The lateral adjustability of bolts within mounting holes allows drive housing to be shifted laterally which results in a lateral shift of auger relative to septum .

Whether a mounting hole is oversized depends on the size of the bolt being placed in the mounting hole. In one embodiment the diameter of the mounting hole is more than 10 larger than the diameter of the bolt alternatively more than 25 larger or more than 50 larger.

The auger adjustment mechanism provided by oversized mounting holes can be implemented independently or in combination with a compressible member.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described as utilizing a bolt and nut as a fastener those skilled in the art will recognize that there are other fasteners and fastening mechanisms that can be implemented to carry out the invention. In addition those skilled in the art will recognize that the bolt and or nut can be integrated into various parts of the drive assembly and or vessel. For example instead of a nut the drive housing mounting bracket or vessel may have threads formed in a mounting hole. Similarly a bolt may be integrated into the drive housing mounting bracket or vessel.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

