---

title: Neck dam collar for use with chemical-biological protective masks and hoods
abstract: A neck dam collar is formed of a substantially vapor-proof material. Resiliently compressible portions of the collar either act as a cushion, a spacer, or both between a neck dam and the wearer's neck. In one embodiment, the collar is a discrete, cylindrical tube of flexible, elastic material. In another embodiment, a protective garment includes the neck dam collar.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07743433&OS=07743433&RS=07743433
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07743433
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060411
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates to the field of protective apparel specifically hoods and escape mask systems designed to protect wearers from exposure to chemical and or biological hazards and more specifically to neck dams used to create a protective seal between such hoods and masks and the neck of the wearer.

Workers in certain hazardous professions such as emergency rescue workers and military personnel may in certain circumstances deal with various chemical or biological agents the inhalation of which or exposure to which can be irritating health threatening or even life threatening. Members of those professions have benefited from the development of hoods and escape mask systems designed to protect the wearer by providing a physical barrier between the wearer and the external environment and thus preventing chemical or biological threats from contacting the wearer. Such hoods and masks are generally fluid and air tight at least partially envelope the wearer s head and interface with the wearer s neck. The effectiveness of such hoods and masks in providing complete protection to the wearer depends in part on the ability of one portion of the hood or mask the neck dam to form an adequately sound seal about the wearer s neck.

A neck dam is a structure surrounding an opening in a protective hood or mask through which a wearer inserts his or her head into the hood or mask. The neck dam typically constructed of an elastic or resilient material is generally smaller in diameter than the head of the wearer and can be stretched so that the wearer can insert his or her head into the hood. When released the neck dam contracts and thus becomes positioned proximate to and generally against the wearer s neck often forming a seal that prevents the entry of gases or agents from the external environment into the hood.

Traditionally a neck dam relies on the elasticity of the material from which it is constructed to create the seal about the wearer s neck. This construction has certain limitations and drawbacks. For example the elastic material chosen for use in traditional neck dams may not conform to the physical dimensions of a wearer s neck. In the case of a wearer with a larger diameter neck the dam may be too tight possibly leading to shortness of breath and reduced blood flow to the brain due to the pressure of the neck dam on the individual s windpipe and carotid arteries. In the case of a wearer with a smaller diameter neck the neck dam may be too loose and thus compromise the quality of the desired seal. When there is not enough sealing pressure to provide an adequate seal around the wearer s neck movements of the head such as looking upward or downward can cause the neck dam to leak permitting chemical or biological agents to enter the hood or mask.

Accordingly there is a need for a device and method that may improve the level of protection and or the level of comfort afforded by neck dams of chemical and biological hoods and escape mask systems.

According to one aspect of the invention a collar for a neck dam includes a substantially vapor proof material with at least a portion adapted to engage a wearer s neck without substantial constriction. The material of the collar is sufficiently compressible to cushion the neck of the wearer against an opposing portion of the neck dam if and when such neck dam pushes or biases against the wearer s neck. The material for the collar may have a sufficient thickness to fill in any gap or gaps that may form between the neck and the neck dam while the user is wearing the neck dam.

According to another aspect of the invention the material has been configured so as to form a cylindrical passage with two opposite open ends. In this aspect the material extends between the open ends which are sized to be stretched over the wearer s head so as to put the cylindrical passage around the wearer s neck.

According to a still further aspect of the invention the material comprises a flexible planar fabric having opposite substantially planar surfaces to define a cylindrical wall. In this aspect of the invention the thickness of the cylindrical wall corresponds to the thickness of the material. The collar may be constructed with material that is sufficiently flexible to be folded over on itself which increases the overall thickness of the material extending from the neck to the neck dam. Substantially vapor proof materials include rubber synthetic rubber neoprene other rubber like materials and the like. Silicone rubber may be also be used in certain applications although it is not considered entirely vapor proof.

According to yet another aspect of the invention the neck dam collar is used with or is part of an article of apparel.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Additional features of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Referring now to the neck dam collar in one implementation is adapted to engage or be disposed against a wearer s neck without substantially constricting the wearer s neck. The material of collar is sufficiently compressible to cushion the wearer s neck against any opposing portion of neck dam . The material likewise has a thickness sufficient to permit the wearer selectively to position the material between his or her neck and the neck dam and thereby fill in any gap that may form. For example the thickness may be from between 0.035 inches to 0.065 inches however thickness may also be other thicknesses. It will be appreciated that the functions of cushioning against undue constriction on the one hand and filling in actual or potential gaps on the other hand will depend on a number of variables including the relative dimensions or diameters of the wearer s neck and the neck dam as well as the thickness resiliency compressibility and other structural attributes of the material of collar . Thus the resilient and compressible characteristics permit collar to act as a cushion a spacer or both between the neck.

Neck dam collar is preferably formed into a cylindrical passage having two opposite open ends and a substantially planar cylindrical wall extending between ends . Cylindrical passage may have an inside diameter of about 3.5 inches to about 3.625 inches however cylindrical passage may have other inside diameters. Planar cylindrical wall is sufficiently expandable or elastic in the circumferential direction AA so that it is capable of being stretched from its static or normal dimensions to have sufficient diameter and dimensions to go over the wearer s head and be placed around the wearer s neck. When released the material of collar returns to its native shape and dimensions which are generally smaller in diameter than the wearer s head but also generally selected to comfortably encircle the wearer s neck .

The material of collar is likewise resiliently compressible at least in the orthogonal or radial direction B and the material may also be substantially vapor proof one which means that aerosols and vapors cannot substantially penetrate the material. Vapor proof material also includes air tight material. In one implementation the material is rubber silicone rubber neoprene other rubber like materials and any composite material using rubber neoprene other vapor barrier materials and the like.

It will be appreciated from the description above that when neck dam collar is worn it engages the wearer s neck snugly but comfortably. Engaging the wearer s neck means it is disposed against the neck.

More particularly in the case of a wearer with a larger diameter neck a conventional neck dam may be too tight possibly leading to shortness of breath and reduced blood flow to the brain due to the pressure of the neck dam being exerted over a relatively small area against the individual s windpipe and carotid arteries. In the case of a wearer with the larger diameter neck the cushioning characteristics of collar may reduce the discomfort by dispensing or dissipating the orthogonal forces of neck dam as shown by arrows C in . In the case of a wearer with a smaller diameter neck a conventional neck dam may be too loose and thus compromise the quality of the desired seal. For example when there is not enough sealing pressure to provide an adequate seal around the wearer s neck movements of the head such as looking upward or downward can cause the neck dam to leak permitting chemical or biological agents to enter the hood or mask. The resilient characteristics of collar however fill in any potential gaps or increase assurances that such gaps do not form. It will be appreciated that the gap filing spaces characteristics and cushioning characteristics are often both in play for any given wearer at the collar.

It may be desirable in some applications to employ collar in a folded configuration such as shown in . The same principles and functions of collar are present except for the increased thickness and resulting increase in cushioning and or resiliency. Collar may be folded once twice and the like to accommodate different size necks.

The collar in this embodiment has been secured to a protective suit . Collar likewise could be secured to neck dam itself.

Although neck dam collar has been shown in this embodiment as a flexible planar wall other configurations are possible so long as a portion of collar is disposed snugly but comfortably between the wearer s neck and one or more opposing portions of neck dam . Such alternate configurations like that illustrated in may cushion larger necks against unnecessary constriction and improve the seal of deck dam against actual or potential gaps or leaks.

Neck dam collar can have a variety of suitable lengths for cylindrical wall . Generally the height is sufficiently long to account for variations in the vertical position of opposing neck dam portions relative to the wearer s neck. The height may be about 4.5 inches however alternative heights are contemplated. In other words numerous geometric variables will dictate the range of vertical positions of opposing neck dam portions and it is preferable but not required for collar to remain between the opposing portions and the wearer s neck regardless of such variations in the fit or neck dam geometry.

The material of neck dam collar may be a single ply rubber material such as silicone rubber or the like and it will be appreciated that laminate structures such as neoprene are likewise suitable. The functional characteristics of the two layers can be varied relative to each other to enhance the effectiveness of the collar. Thus for example the outer layer not shown may be selected to have more resilience to better dissipate the forward force of opposing portion whereas the inner layer not shown may have more give or cushioning to enhance comfort. The reverse construction may likewise be suitable.

