---

title: Automatic adaptive document printing help system
abstract: An automatic printing assistant application for documents in electronic form is provided by virtue of the present invention. In certain embodiments, an elongated thumbnail image of all or part of an electronically stored document is displayed. A section of the document of interest to the reader is emphasized. Movement of the emphasized area in the elongated thumbnail image assists the user with the selection of sections or pages of the document for printing. The operation of the assistant is personalizable for a particular user by setting of a sensitivity level and selection of relevant topics of interest. Some embodiments of the assistant are also capable of improved performance over time by both automatic and manual feedback. The assistant is usable with many popular electronic document formats.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08112709&OS=08112709&RS=08112709
owner: Ricoh Co., Ltd.
number: 08112709
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060706
---
The present application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 10 402 844 filed on Mar. 28 2003 which is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 09 149 920 filed on Jun. 24 2003 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The following related commonly owned copending application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 09 149 921 filed on Sep. 9 1998 entitled AUTOMATIC ADAPTIVE DOCUMENT HELP FOR PAPER DOCUMENTS. 

Further this application incorporates by reference the following commonly owned copending U.S. patent application in its entirety for all purposes U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616 filed Dec. 22 1997 entitled AUTOMATIC ADAPTIVE DOCUMENT HELP SYSTEM. 

The present invention relates to printing of electronic documents and more particularly to method and apparatus for augmenting the printing of electronic documents with features to enhance the experience of reading or using the hardcopy of an electronic document.

Increasingly readers of documents are being called upon to assimilate vast quantities of information in a short period of time. To meet the demands placed upon them readers find they must read documents horizontally rather than vertically i.e. they must scan skim and browse sections of interest in multiple documents rather than read and analyze a single document from beginning to end.

Documents are becoming more widely available in electronic form. Some documents are available electronically by virtue of their having been created using word processing software. Other electronic documents are accessible via the Internet. Yet others may become available in electronic form by virtue of being scanned in copied or faxed. Commonly assigned U.S. application Ser. No. 08 754 721 entitled AUTOMATIC AND TRANSPARENT DOCUMENT ARCHIVING the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes details a system for generating electronic as well as hardcopy format of documents.

However the mere availability of documents in electronic form does not assist the reader in confronting the challenges of assimilating information quickly. Indeed many time challenged readers still prefer paper documents because of their portability and the ease of flipping through pages.

Certain tools take advantage of the electronic form documents to assist harried readers. Tools exist to search for documents both on the Internet and locally. Once a document is identified and retrieved automatic summarization techniques such as the Reader s Helper described in a commonly owned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616 entitled AUTOMATIC ADAPTIVE DOCUMENT HELP SYSTEM the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes helps the reader to find as well as assimilate the information he or she wants more quickly. However there is heretofore no automatic assistance available to the reader who desires to work with printed hardcopy of electronic documents.

What is needed is a document printing system that helps the reader print the information he or she wants more quickly. The document printing system should be easily personalizable flexible and adaptive as well.

An automatic printing assistant application for documents in electronic form is provided by virtue of the present invention. In certain embodiments an elongated thumbnail image of all or part of an electronically stored document is displayed. A section of the document of interest to the reader is emphasized. Movement of the emphasized area in the elongated thumbnail image assists the user with the selection of sections or pages of the document for printing. The operation of the assistant is personalizable for a particular user by setting of a sensitivity level and selection of relevant topics of interest. Some embodiments of the assistant are also capable of improved performance over time by both automatic and manual feedback. The assistant is usable with many popular electronic document formats.

In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention a method for adaptively controlling printing of an electronically stored document includes a step of accepting user input indicating a user specified concept of interest. A step of analyzing the electronically stored document to identify locations of discussion of the user specified concept of interest may also be included. Embodiments can also include a step of displaying visual indications of the identified locations. In another step user input indicating a print preference for certain locations is accepted. Finally portions of the electronic document corresponding to the user s print preferences are printed.

In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention the method for assisting a reader in printing an electronically stored document also includes a step of accepting user input indicating a print preference by emphasizing an area of interest to the user in a thumbnail image corresponding to a section of interest to the user in the document. The user can control printing by sliding the emphasized area through thumbnail image for the purposes of indicating sections of the electronically stored document to print.

In select embodiments in accordance with the present invention the method includes a step of displaying an elongated thumbnail image of a portion of the electronically stored document in a viewing area of a display.

In certain embodiments in accordance with the present invention the step of analyzing the electronically stored document to identify locations of discussion of the user specified concept of interest may be realized by exploiting a probabilistic inference method such as a Bayesian belief network or its equivalent to identify such locations.

Numerous benefits are achieved by way of the present invention over conventional techniques. In some embodiments the present invention is more user friendly than conventional techniques. The present invention can provide a way for the user to obtain hardcopy of only those sections of a large document which contain concepts of interest. Some embodiments according to the invention are more robust than known techniques. These and other benefits are described throughout the present specification and more particularly below.

A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the inventions herein may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

The present invention provides a personalizable system for printing automatically annotated documents based upon concepts of interest to a particular user. An embodiment according to the present invention has been reduced to practice under the name Reader s Helper .

An elongated thumbnail image of many pages or all of an electronically stored document of is presented in viewing area . Elongated thumbnail image provides a convenient view of the basic document structure. The annotations incorporated into the document are visible within elongated thumbnail image . Within elongated thumbnail image an emphasized area A shows a highlighted view of a portion of the document. Thus a user may change the window size causing emphasized area A to change in size accordingly. The greater the viewing area allocated to elongated thumbnail image and emphasized area A the more detail is visible. With very small allocated viewing areas only sections of the document may be distinguishable. As the allocated area increases individual lines and eventually individual words become distinguishable. Emphasized viewing area A may be understood to be a lens or a viewing window over the part of elongated thumbnail image corresponding to the document section of greatest interest to user . User may scroll through elongated thumbnail by sliding emphasized area A through elongated thumbnail using mouse or keys on keyboard . As emphasized area A shifts the section of document displayed in elongated thumbnail visible through emphasized area A will also shift.

The elongated thumbnail image in displays each page of document as being displayed at the same reduced scale. In the user configured ratio is approximately 6 1. The present invention also contemplates other modes of scaling elongated thumbnail image . For example one may display emphasized area A at a scale similar to that shown in and use a variable scale for the rest of elongated thumbnail image . Text from far away emphasized area A would be displayed at a highly reduced scale and the degree of magnification would increase with nearness to emphasized area A.

The annotations in elongated thumbnail image make it very easy to find relevant text anywhere in document . Furthermore elongated thumbnail image provides a highly useful way of keeping track of a lengthy document. These features enable the user to readily locate portions of the document for printing.

A series of concept indicators permit the user to view which concepts of interest are to be noted in the document. Concepts are defined by means of a defined concepts list shown in which lists all of the concepts which have been added to a user profile. By selecting a concept add button the user may add a new concept. The user profile is discussed below in greater detail.

A sensitivity control permits the user to select the degree of sensitivity to apply in identifying potential locations of relevant discussion for printing. At low sensitivity more locations will be denoted as being relevant even though some may not be of any actual interest. At high sensitivity most all denoted locations will in fact be relevant but some other relevant locations may be missed. After each concept name appearing by one of concept indicators appears a percentage giving the relevance of the currently viewed document to the concept. These relevance levels offer a quick assessment of the relevance of the document to the selected concepts.

In a particular embodiment user uses a sensitivity control to select the degree of sensitivity to apply in identifying potential locations of relevant discussion. At low sensitivity more locations will be denoted as being relevant even though some may not be of any actual interest. At high sensitivity most all denoted locations will in fact be relevant but some other relevant locations may be missed.

Annotation agent adds the annotations to document to prepare it for viewing by document browser and printing by printing dialog . Processing by annotation agent may be understood to be in three stages a text processing stage a content recognition stage and a formatting stage . The input to text processing stage is raw text. The output from text processing stage and input to content recognition stage is a parsed text stream a text stream with formatting information such as special tags around particular words or phrases removed. The output from content recognition stage and input to formatting stage is an annotated text stream. The output of formatting stage is a formatted text file which may be printed using print dialog or viewed with document browser .

The processing of annotation agent is preferably a run time process. The annotations are not preferably pre inserted into the text but are rather generated when user requests document for browsing. Thus this is preferably a dynamic process. Annotation agent may also however operate in the background as a batch process.

The annotation added by annotation agent depends on concepts of interest selected by user . User also inputs information used by annotation agent to identify locations of discussion of concepts of interest in document . In a preferred embodiment this information defines the structure of a Bayesian belief network. The concepts of interest and other user specific information are maintained in a user profile file . User employs a profile editor to modify the contents of user profile file .

Text processing stage includes a file I O stage an updating stage and a language processing stage . File I O stage reads the document file from network . Updating stage maintains a history of recently visited documents in a history file . Language processing stage parses the text of document to generate the parsed text output of text processing stage .

Pattern identification stage looks for keywords and key phrases of interest and locates relevant discussion of concepts based on the located keywords. The identification of keywords and the application of the keywords to locating relevant discussion is preferably accomplished by reference to a belief system. The belief system is preferably a Bayesian belief network.

The structure of Bayesian belief network is only one possible structure applicable to the present invention. For example one could employ a Bayesian belief network with more than two levels of hierarchy so that the presence of subconcepts is suggested by the presence of subsubconcepts and so on. In the preferred embodiment presence of a keyword or key phrase always indicates presence of discussion of the subconcept but it is also possible to configure the belief network so that presence of a keyword or key phrase suggests discussion of the subconcept with a specified probability.

The primary source for the structure of Bayesian belief network including the selection of concepts keywords and key phrases interconnections and probabilities is user profile file . In a preferred embodiment user profile file is selectable for both editing and use from among profiles for many users.

The structure of belief system is modifiable during use of the annotation system. The modifications may occur automatically in the background or may involve explicit user feedback input. The locations of concepts of interest determined by pattern identification stage are monitored by profile updating stage . Profile updating stage notes the proximity of other keywords and key phrases within each analyzed document to the locations of concepts of interest. If particular keywords and key phrases are always near a concept of interest the structure and contents of belief system are updated in the background without user input by profile updating stage . This could mean changing probability values introducing a new connection between a subconcept and concept or introducing a new keyword or key phrase.

User may select a word or phrase in document as being relevant to a particular concept even though the word or phrase has not yet defined to be a keyword or key phrase. Belief system is then updated to include the new keyword or key phrase.

User may also give feedback for an existing key word or key phrase indicating the perceived relevance of the keyword or key phrase to the concept of interest. If the selected keyword or key phrase is indicated to be of high relevance to the concept of interest the probability values connecting the subconcept indicated by the selected keywords or key phrases to the concept of interest increases. If on the other hand user indicates the selected keywords or key phrases to be of little interest the probability values connecting these keywords or key phrases to the concept decrease.

A defined concepts list lists all of the concepts which have already been added to the user profile. By selecting a concept add button the user may add a new concept. By selecting a concept edit button the user may modify the belief network as it pertains to the listed concept that is currently selected. By selecting a remove button the user may delete a concept.

If a concept has been selected for editing its name appears in a concept name box . The portion of the belief network pertaining to the selected concept is shown in a belief network display window . Belief network display window shows the selected concept the subconcepts which have been defined as relating to the selected concept and the percentage values associated with each relationship. The user may add a subconcept by selecting a subconcept add button . The user may edit a subconcept by selecting the subconcept in belief network display window and then selecting a subconcept edit button . A subconcept remove button permits the user to delete a subconcept from the belief network.

Selecting subconcept add button causes a subconcept add window to appear. Subconcept add window includes a subconcept name box for entering the name of a new subconcept. A slider control permits the user to select the percentage value that defines the probability of the selected concept appearing given that the newly selected subconcept appears. A keyword list lists the keywords and key phrases which indicate discussion of the subconcept. The user adds to the list by selecting a keyword add button which causes display of a dialog box not shown for entering the new keyword or key phrase. The user deletes a keyword or key phrase by selecting it and then selecting a keyword delete button . Once the user has finished defining the new subconcept he or she confirms the definition by selecting an OK button . Selection of a cancel button dismisses subconcept add window without affecting the belief network contents or structure. Selection of subconcept edit button causes display of a window similar to subconcept add window permitting redefinition of the selected subconcept.

By determining whether a background learning checkbox has been selected the user may enable or disable the operation of profile updating stage . A web autofetch check box permits the user to select whether or not to enable an automatic web search process. When this web search process is enabled whenever a particular keyword or key phrase is found frequently near where a defined concept is determined to be discussed a web search tool such as AltaVista is employed to look on the World Wide Web for documents containing the keyword or key phrase. A threshold slider control is provided to enable the user to set a threshold relevance level for this autofetching process.

In a preferred embodiment software to implement the present invention is written in the Jave computer programming language. Preferably the software forms a part of a stand alone browser program written in the Jave language. Alternatively the code may be in the form of a so called plug in operating with a Jave equipped web browser used to browse HTML documents including the special annotation tags explained above.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. For example any probabilistic inference method may be substituted for a Bayesian belief network. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims and their full scope of equivalents.

