---

title: Speech analysis using statistical learning
abstract: Included are embodiments for providing speech analysis. At least one embodiment of a method includes receiving audio data associated with a communication and providing the at least one phoneme in a phonetic transcript, the phonetic transcript including at least one character from a phonetic alphabet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08005676&OS=08005676&RS=08005676
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08005676
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
As communication technologies have improved businesses and individuals have desired greater functionality in their communication networks. As a nonlimiting example many businesses have created call center infrastructures in which a customer or other user can call to receive information related to the business. As customers call into the call center the customer may be connected with a customer service representative to provide desired information. Depending on the time of call the subject matter of the call and or other information the customer may be connected with different customer service representatives. As such depending on these and or other factors the customer may be provided with varying levels of quality with respect to the interaction with a customer service representative. Because most businesses desire to provide the highest possible quality of customer service many businesses have turned to recording the communication between the customer and the customer service representative. While recording this data has proven beneficial in many cases many businesses receive call volumes that inhibit the business from reviewing all of the call data received.

As such many businesses have turned to speech recognition technology to capture the recorded communication data and thereby provide a textual document for review of the communication. While textual documentation of a communication has also proven beneficial a similar scenario may exist in that the sheer amount of data may be such that review of the data is impractical. To combat this problem a number of businesses have also implemented speech analytics technologies to analyze the speech recognized communications. One such technology that has emerged includes large vocabulary continuous speech recognition LVCSR . LVCSR technologies often convert received audio from the communications into an English translation of the communication in a textual document. From the textual document analytics may be provided to determine various data related to the communication.

While LVCSR technologies have improved the ability to analyze captured data LVCSR technology often consumes a large amount of resources in converting the audio data into a textual format and or analyzing the textual data. As such phonetic speech to text technologies have also emerged. While phonetic speech to text technologies provide analytic functionality many of the features that may be provided in an LVCSR type speech to text technology may be unavailable.

Thus a heretofore unaddressed need exists in the industry to address the aforementioned deficiencies and inadequacies.

Included are embodiments for providing speech analysis. At least one embodiment of a method includes receiving audio data associated with a communication and providing at least one phoneme in a phonetic transcript the phonetic transcript including at least one character from a phonetic alphabet.

Also included are embodiments of a system for providing speech analysis. At least one embodiment of a system includes an audio receiving component configured to receive audio data associated with a communication and a providing component configured to provide at least one phoneme in a phonetic transcript the phonetic transcript including at least one character from a phonetic alphabet.

Also included are embodiments of a computer readable medium for providing speech analysis. At least one embodiment of a computer readable medium includes audio receiving logic configured to receive audio data associated with a communication and providing logic configured to provide at least one phoneme in a phonetic transcript the phonetic transcript including at least one character from a phonetic alphabet.

Other systems methods features and advantages of this disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Included are techniques for using a phonetic speech recognition engine to produce a phonetic transcript of a communication. The phonetic transcript may include information about the sounds that occurred in speech without attempting to reconstruct these phonemes into syllables and words. Additionally at least one exemplary embodiment includes the phonetic transcript as an index file. The index file can be configured for easy searching of phonemes and combinations of phonemes.

Regardless this data can then be used as an input to an automated scoring system that can learn to spot patterns that identify various data related to the communication including one or more components for determining quality of customer service. In at least one embodiment the scoring system can make this determination based on samples associated with previous scores. Thus processing of all calls in a call center with relatively little custom configuration can be achieved as well as adaptation over time without requiring extensive reconfiguration.

One should note that a call center can include but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

More specifically recording and scoring calls by various call center specific criteria is a tool that may be used by call centers to monitor the quality of customer service. While in at least one embodiment scoring may largely be calculated manually for some configurations automated scoring may be desired. Automation can be performed by configuring a set of rules into a scoring system and applying the rules to calls automatically.

Additionally some embodiments include an automatic learning component which may be configured to search for and identify patterns that can then be used to score future calls. The automatic learning component may receive as much relevant data as possible about the call e.g. telephony events information from Computer Telephone Integration CTI logic such as customer ID and data such as key presses recorded from the agent s computing device and or communications device .

Once the automatic learning component has analyzed enough calls to generate some useful patterns the automatic learning component can apply patterns to new calls for automatically scoring. Further manually scored calls can be sent to the scoring engine to help the patterns adjust over time or when scoring requirements change.

In at least one embodiment a phonetic engine may be configured to preprocess ingest raw audio data and produce a summarized form of the audio data which includes phonetic data. The raw data and or the phonetic summary however may be impractical to use in an automatic learning system. Oftentimes the raw audio data and or the phonetic summary may include too much data including unwanted noise. Additionally oftentimes the phonetic summary may be created in a proprietary format specific to a particular phonetic engine.

Included in this disclosure is a description of a phonetic transcript. A phonetic transcript is a simple text file containing a list of the individual speech sounds phonemes that occurred in a particular communication. One way to represent this data includes utilization of the International Phonetic Alphabet IPA which can be encoded for computer use using the ISO10646 standard Unicode . As a nonlimiting example a British pronunciation of the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog may be represented as 

An extended form of the phonetic transcript could add a time stamp in the recording to indicate a time that one or more phonemes occur. Some embodiments may also include the ability to specify multiple possible phonemes for each actual phoneme with confidence levels indicating how close a match there is between the phoneme in the recording and the phoneme as it would normally be expected to appear. One embodiment among others includes producing an XML file using a simple schema for this data. These and other embodiments are described below with reference to the drawings.

As discussed above in some configurations a recording can be provided to a customer service representative agent to determine the quality of customer service. Similarly some embodiments may include a text to voice conversion of the communication. LVCSR speech recognition may be configured to create an English and or other spoken language translated textual document associated with the communication. While an LVCSR speech recognized textual document may provide enhanced searching capabilities related to the communication LVCSR technologies may be slow and difficult to produce. Similarly many phonetic technologies for speech recognition may be difficult to utilize one or more search functions associated with the communication.

Additionally while a user can send a communication request via communication device some embodiments may provide that a user utilizing computing device may initiate a communication to call center via network . In such configurations a user may be utilizing a soft phone and or other communications logic provided for initiating and facilitating a communication.

Call center may also include an analytic scorecard a quality management QM evaluations component and enterprise reporting component and a speech and replay component . An agent such as a customer service representative can utilize one or more of the components of call center to facilitate a communication with a caller on communications device . Similarly an analyst can utilize one or more components of call center to analyze the quality of the communications between the agent and the caller associated with communications device . A supervisor may also have access to components of call center to oversee the agent and or the analyst and their interactions with a caller on communications device .

Additionally a recognition engine cluster may be coupled to call center either directly and or via network . Recognition engine cluster may include one or more servers that may provide speech recognition functionality to call center .

In operation a communication between a caller on communications device and an agent via network may first be received by a recorder subsystem component . Recorder subsystem component may record the communications in an audio format. The recorded audio may then be sent to an extraction filtering component which may be configured to extract the dialogue e.g. remove noise and other unwanted sounds from the recording. The recorded communication can then be sent to a speech processing framework component for converting the recorded audio communication into a textual format. Conversion of the audio into a textual format may be facilitated by a recognition engine cluster however this is not a requirement. Regardless conversion from the audio format to a textual format may be facilitated via LVCSR speech recognition technologies and or phonetic speech recognition technologies as discussed in more detail below.

Upon conversion from audio to a textual format data related to the communication may be provided to advanced data analytics pattern recognition component . Advanced data analytics component may be converted to provide analysis associated with the speech to text converted communication to determine the quality of customer service provided to the caller of communications device . Advanced data analytics component may utilize atlas component for facilitation of this analysis. More specifically atlas component may include a speech package component that may be configured to analyze various patterns in the speech of the caller of communications device . Similarly desktop event component may be configured to analyze one or more actions that the user of communications device takes on their communications device . More specifically a network may facilitate communications in an IP network. As such communications device may facilitate both audio and or data communications that may include audio video image and or other data. Additionally advanced data analytics component may utilize an interactions package to determine various components of the interaction between agent and the caller of communications device . Advanced data analytics component may then make a determination based on predetermined criteria of the quality of call service provided by agent .

Advanced data analytics component may then facilitate creation of an analytic scorecard and provide enterprise reporting as well as quality management evaluations and speech and replay data . At least a portion of this data may be viewed by an agent an analyst and or a supervisor . Additionally as discussed in more detail below an analyst may further analyze the data to provide a basis for advanced data analytics component to determine the quality of customer service.

The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the computing device a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The volatile and nonvolatile memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM VRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CD ROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the volatile and nonvolatile memory can also have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remotely from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in volatile and nonvolatile memory may include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may include phonetics logic analytics logic as well as an operating system and a recording cache. Additionally while logic components and are each illustrated in this nonlimiting example as a single piece of logic as one of ordinary skill in the art will understand these components can include one or more separate software hardware or firmware modules. Similarly one or more of these logical components can be combined to provide the desired functionality. Additionally the operating system may be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and may be configured to provide scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

A system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the volatile and nonvolatile memory so as to operate properly in connection with the Operating System .

The Input Output devices that may be coupled to system I O Interface s may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone camera proximity device etc. Further the Input Output devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display etc. Finally the Input Output devices may further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc. Similarly network interface which is coupled to local interface can be configured to communication with a communications network such as the network from . While this communication may be facilitated via a communications device such as communications device this is not a requirement.

If the computing device is a personal computer workstation or the like the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the Operating System and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when the computing device is activated.

When the computing device is in operation the processor can be configured to execute software stored within the volatile and nonvolatile memory to communicate data to and from the volatile and nonvolatile memory and to generally control operations of the computing device pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part is read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed. Additionally one should note that while the above description is directed to a computing device other devices such as application server capture control server and central recording system can also include the components described in .

One should note that advanced data analytics component can be configured with one or more of the components and or logic described above with respect to analytics component . Additionally analytics component communications device computing device and or other components of call center can include voice recognition logic voice to text logic text to voice logic etc. or any permutation thereof as well as other components and or logic for facilitating the functionality described herein. Additionally in some exemplary embodiments one or more of these components can include the functionality described with respect to analytics component .

More specifically ingest audio component can be configured to facilitate the creation of a phonetic transcript with one or more phonemes that occur in the communication. One embodiment of a representation of the one or more phonemes can include the designation of International Phonetic Alphabet IPA which may be encoded for computer use using the ISO10646 standard UNICODE . Ingest audio component can then create the phonetic transcript .

Phonetic transcript can then be sent to a search system which is part of a search component . Search system can also receive vocabulary and rules as designated by an analyst such as analyst from . Vocabulary and rules component can designate one or more search trends and or algorithms to be used in analyzing the phonetic transcript . Additionally search terms may be provided by analyst to provide data associated with the quality of customer service provided to a caller.

As a nonlimiting example referring to a user of communication device may initiate communication with call center . The user of communication device and an agent may engage in a communication that includes the phrase brown fox. In this communication the agent may be required to save the term brown fox. As such the communication can be recorded and the audio recording can be sent to the base phonetic engine. The phonetic engine can apply language models to ingest the audio recording at ingest audio component . The phonetic engine can thereby create a phonetic transcript .

The phonetic transcript can then be sent to a search component which includes a search system . The search system can utilize vocabulary and rules component as well as receive the search terms . As indicated above in this nonlimiting example the search term brown fox can be a desired term to be found in a communication. The search system can then search the phonetic transcript for phonemes related to the term brown fox. As the phonetic transcript may not include an English translation of the audio recording vocabulary and rules component may be configured to provide a correlation between the search term which may be provided in English and the phonetic representation of the desired search terms which may include one or more phonemes.

If phonemes associated with the term brown fox appear in the phonetic transcript a signal and or scorecard can be provided to an analyst for determining the quality of customer service provided by agent . Additionally some embodiments can be configured to provide information to analyst in the event that phonemes associated with the term brown fox does not appear in the communication. Similarly other search terms and or search criteria may be utilized to provide data to analyst .

Similarly ingestion component receives raw data which may include an audio recording of at least a portion of the communication and convert the raw data into a phonetic transcript as discussed above. The phonetic transcript can be provided to automatic scoring system . Automatic scoring system can be configured to determine scoring patterns from the analyst by applying the phonetic transcript to the manual score. More specifically the automatic scoring component can determine a technique used by agent in determining the manual score . The automatic scoring component can then create a scoring patterns document that can be sent to automatic scoring component .

Similarly on the scoring side of raw data may be provided to ingestion component . Ingestion component may be configured to convert the received raw data into a phonetic transcript similar to ingestion component . One should note that ingestion component may be included within ingestion component and or may be the same component altogether. However in at least one embodiment ingestion component and ingestion component are separate components.

Upon ingesting the raw data ingestion component can send the phonetic transcript to automatic scoring system which may or may not be different than automatic scoring system . Automatic scoring system can be configured to receive the phonetic transcript as well as scoring patterns . Automatic scoring system can then determine a score for raw data according to the scoring patterns . Automatic scoring system can then send the scoring patterns to create an automatic score associated with the communication.

One should note that while raw data on the scoring side of may be the same as raw data on the learning side of this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment raw data on the scoring side of may be associated with a different communication than raw data on the learning side of . Similarly while automatic scoring component may be configured to determine an automatic score from scoring patterns and phonetic transcript from ingestion component in at least one embodiment automatic scoring component may be configured to compare automatic score with manual score to determine errors in automatic scoring system .

As discussed above the textual phonetic transcript may be configured such that searching functionality may be performed. Similarly depending on the particular embodiment the textual phonetic transcript may be configured to determine unknown terms e.g. phonemes associated with the communication. More specifically with the textual phonetic transcript call center may be configured to search the textual phonetic transcript to determine if a phoneme a word and or a phrase are repeated in one or more communications. Call center may be previously unaware of the phoneme word and or phrase however upon seeing the phoneme word and or phrase in one or more communications call center may provide information associated with the phoneme word and or phrase to agent .

Call center may receive a manual score associated with the present communication block . Call center may then compare an automatic score with the received manual score to determine whether the automatic score includes one or more errors block . As discussed above this statistical pattern recognition allows call center to learn not only patterns associated with scoring a communication but also to determine accuracy data associated with scoring of the current communication.

One should also note that the above description could also include a hybrid system for recognizing and indexing speech. More specifically in at least one exemplary embodiment LVCSR may be utilized for word spotting and for short word detection. The phonetic transcript may be utilized for general searching. Other embodiments are also considered.

It should be noted that speech analytics i.e. the analysis of recorded speech or real time speech can be used to perform a variety of functions such as automated call evaluation call scoring quality monitoring quality assessment and compliance adherence. By way of example speech analytics can be used to compare a recorded interaction to a script e.g. a script that the agent was to use during the interaction . In other words speech analytics can be used to measure how well agents adhere to scripts identify which agents are good sales people and which ones need additional training. As such speech analytics can be used to find agents who do not adhere to scripts. Yet in another example speech analytics can measure script effectiveness identify which scripts are effective and which are not and find for example the section of a script that displeases or upsets customers e.g. based on emotion detection . As another example compliance with various policies can be determined. Such may be in the case of for example the collections industry where it is a highly regulated business and agents must abide by many rules. The speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify when agents are not adhering to their scripts and guidelines. This improves collection effectiveness and reduces corporate liability and risk.

In this regard various types of recording components can be used to facilitate speech analytics. Specifically such recording components can perform one or more various functions such as receiving capturing intercepting and tapping of data. This can involve the use of active and or passive recording techniques as well as the recording of voice and or screen data.

It should be noted that speech analytics can be used in conjunction with such screen data e.g. screen data captured from an agent s workstation PC for evaluation scoring analysis adherence and compliance purposes for example. Such integrated functionalities improve the effectiveness and efficiency of for example quality assurance programs. For example the integrated function can help companies to locate appropriate calls and related screen interactions for quality monitoring and evaluation. This type of precision monitoring improves the effectiveness and productivity of quality assurance programs.

Another aspect that can be accomplished involves fraud detection. In this regard various manners can be used to determine the identity of a particular speaker. In some embodiments speech analytics can be used independently and or in combination with other techniques for performing fraud detection. Specifically some embodiments can involve identification of a speaker e.g. a customer and correlating this identification with other information to determine whether a fraudulent claim for example is being made. If such potential fraud is identified some embodiments can provide an alert. For example the speech analytics of the present disclosure may identify the emotions of callers. The identified emotions can be used in conjunction with identifying specific concepts to help companies spot either agents or callers customers who are involved in fraudulent activities. Referring back to the collections example outlined above by using emotion and concept detection companies can identify which customers are attempting to mislead collectors into believing that they are going to pay. The earlier the company is aware of a problem account the more recourse options they will have. Thus the speech analytics of the present disclosure can function as an early warning system to reduce losses.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

The embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. At least one embodiment disclosed herein is implemented in software and or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware as in an alternative embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order and or not at all. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the programs listed herein which can include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

One should also note that conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more particular embodiments or that one or more particular embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

