---

title: Isolated myeloid-like bone marrow cell populations and methods of treatment therewith
abstract: The present invention provides an isolated myeloid-like cell population comprising a majority of cells that are lineage negative, and which express both CD44 antigen, CD11b antigen, and hypoxia inducible factor 1 α (HIF-1 α). These cells have beneficial vasculotrophic and neurotrophic activity when intraocularly administered to the eye of a mammal, particularly a mammal suffering from an ocular degenerative disease. The myeloid-like cells are isolated by treating bone marrow cells, peripheral blood cells or umbilical cord cells with an antibody against CD44 (hyaluronic acid receptor), against CD11b, CD14, CD33, or against a combination thereof and using flow cytometry to positively select CD44 and/or CD11b expressing cells therefrom. The isolated myeloid-like bone marrow cells of the invention can be transfected with a gene encoding a therapeutically useful protein, for delivering the gene to the retina.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07931891&OS=07931891&RS=07931891
owner: The Scripps Research Institute
number: 07931891
owner_city: La Jolla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060224
---
This application is the national stage of International Application No. PCT US2006 006411 filed on Feb. 24 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 656 037 filed on Feb. 24 2005 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the work described herein was supported by grant numbers EY 11254 EY 12598 and EY 13916 from the National Institutes of Health. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to isolated mammalian bone marrow cells. More particularly the invention is related to isolated bone marrow cell populations that have myeloid cell characteristics and are capable of being incorporated into retinal vasculature when intravitreally injected into the eye. The invention also relates to methods of treating ocular degenerative diseases by administering isolated bone marrow cells to the eye of a mammal.

Age related macular degeneration ARMD and diabetic retinopathy DR are the leading causes of visual loss in industrialized nations and do so as a result of abnormal retinal neovascularization. Since the retina consists of well defined layers of neuronal glial and vascular elements relatively small disturbances such as those seen in vascular proliferation or edema can lead to significant loss of visual function. Inherited retinal degenerations such as retinitis pigmentosa RP are also associated with vascular abnormalities such as arteriolar narrowing and vascular atrophy. Most inherited human retinal degenerations specifically affect rod photoreceptors but there is also a concomitant loss of cones the principal cellular component of the macula the region of the retina in humans that is responsible for central fine visual acuity. Cone specific survival factors have been described recently Mohand Said et al. 1998 95 8357 8362 and may facilitate cone survival in mouse models of retinal degeneration.

Inherited degenerations of the retina affect as many as 1 in 3500 individuals and are characterized by progressive night blindness visual field loss optic nerve atrophy arteriolar attenuation altered vascular permeability and central loss of vision often progressing to complete blindness Heckenlively J. R. editor 1988 Philadelphia JB Lippincott Co. . Molecular genetic analysis of these diseases has identified mutations in over 110 different genes accounting for only a relatively small percentage of the known affected individuals Humphries et al. 1992 256 804 808 Farrar et al 2002 21 857 864. . Many of these mutations are associated with enzymatic and structural components of the phototransduction machinery including rhodopsin cGMP phosphodiesterase rds peripherin and RPE65. Despite these observations there are still no effective treatments to slow or reverse the progression of these retinal degenerative diseases. Recent advances in gene therapy have led to successful reversal of the rds Ali et al. 2000 25 306 310 and rd Takahashi et al. 1999 73 7812 7816 phenotypes in mice and the RPE65 phenotype in dogs Acland et al. 2001 28 92 95 when the wild type transgene is delivered to photoreceptors or the retinal pigmented epithelium RPE in animals with a specific mutation.

For many years it has been known that a population of stem cells exists in the normal adult circulation and bone marrow. Different sub populations of these cells can differentiate along hematopoietic lineage positive Lin or lineage negative Lin lineages. Furthermore the lineage negative hematopoietic stem cell HSC population has recently been shown to contain endothelial progenitor cells EPC capable of forming blood vessels in vitro and in vivo See Asahara et al. 1997 275 964 7 . These cells can participate in normal and pathological postnatal angiogenesis See Lyden et al. 2001 7 1194 201 Kalka et al. 2000 97 3422 7 and Kocher et al. 2001 7 430 6 as well as differentiate into a variety of non endothelial cell types including hepatocytes See Lagasse et al. 2000 6 1229 34 microglia See Priller et al. 2002 7 1356 61 cardiomyocytes See Orlic et al. 2001 98 10344 9 and epithelium See Lyden et al. 2001 7 1194 1201 . Although these cells have been used in several experimental models of angiogenesis the mechanism of EPC targeting to neovasculature is not known and no strategy has been identified that will effectively increase the number of cells that contribute to a particular vasculature.

Hematopoietic stem cells from bone marrow are currently the only type of stem cell commonly used for therapeutic applications. Bone marrow HSC s have been used in transplants for over 40 years. Currently advanced methods of harvesting purified stem cells are being investigated to develop therapies for treatment of leukemia lymphoma and inherited blood disorders. Clinical applications of stem cells in humans have been investigated for the treatment of diabetes and advanced kidney cancer in limited numbers of human patients.

The present invention provides an isolated myeloid like bone marrow MLBM cell population produced by positively selecting cells that express CD44 CD11b or both antigens from bone marrow of a mammal. These cells exhibit beneficial vasculotrophic and neurotrophic activity when intraocularly administered to the eye of a mammal particularly a mammal suffering from an ocular degenerative disease. The MLBM cell population of the invention can be isolated by treating bone marrow cells with an antibody against CD44 hyaluronic acid receptor an antibody against CD11b or antibodies against both antigens and positively selecting cells that immunoreact with the antibody or antibodies as the case may be e.g. using flow cytometry or antibody coated or bound beads to separate the cells . A majority of the cells of the MLBM cell population of the invention are lineage negative and express both the CD44 antigen and the CD11b antigen.

The present invention also provides a method of treating vasculotrophic and neurotrophic retinal diseases in a mammal. The method comprises administering isolated cells from the MLBM cell population to the diseased eye of a mammal preferably by intraocular injection. Preferably the MLBM cell population is autologous to the mammal being treated i.e. the MLBM cell population was isolated from the bone marrow of the individual mammal to be treated . The present treatment method ameliorates vascular degeneration and degeneration of photoreceptor neurons in the retina of a mammal that suffers from an ocular disease. The cells are administered in an amount sufficient to retard vascular and neural degeneration in the retina. Beneficially the cells from the MLBM cell population incorporate into the vasculature of the retina and differentiate into endothelial cells while at the same time incorporating into the neuronal network and ameliorating the degeneration of cone cells in the retina. The isolated mammalian MLBM cell population includes cells that selectively target activated retinal astrocytes when intravitreally injected into the eye and remain stably incorporated into neovasculature and neuronal network of the eye. Preferably the mammal is a human.

In a preferred embodiment at least about 75 percent of the cells in the isolated myeloid like bone marrow cell population express CD44 more preferably at least about 90 percent.

In one preferred embodiment cells from the MLBM cell population are transfected with a therapeutically useful gene. For example the cells can be transfected with polynucleotides that operably encode for neurotrophic agents or anti angiogenic agents that selectively target neovasculature and inhibit new vessel formation without affecting already established vessels through a form of cell based gene therapy. In one embodiment isolated MLBM cell population of the invention include a gene encoding an angiogenesis inhibiting peptide. The angiogenesis inhibiting cells from the MLBM cell population are useful for modulating abnormal blood vessel growth in diseases such as ARMD DR and certain retinal degenerations associated with abnormal vasculature. In another preferred embodiment the isolated cells from the MLBM cell population of the present invention are transfected to include a gene encoding a neurotrophic peptide. The neurotrophic transfected MLBM cells are useful for promoting neuronal rescue in ocular diseases involving retinal neural degeneration such as glaucoma retinitis pigmentosa and the like.

A particular advantage of ocular treatments with the isolated MLBM cell population of the present invention is a vasculotrophic and neurotrophic rescue effect observed in eyes intravitreally treated with cells from the MLBM cell population. Retinal neurons and photoreceptors particularly cones are preserved and some measure of visual function can be maintained in eyes treated with cells from the MLBM cell population of the invention.

The present invention also provides a method for isolating a myeloid like bone marrow cell population from bone marrow by negative cell marker selection. The method comprises contacting a plurality of bone marrow cells with antibodies specific for Ter119 CD45RB220 and CD3e removing cells from the plurality of bone marrow cells that immunoreact with Ter119 CD45RB220 and CD3e antibodies and recovering myeloid like bone marrow cells that are deleted in Ter119 CD45RB220 and CD3e expressing cells. Using this method a cell population can be recovered in which greater than 90 percent of the cells express CD44.

Preferably the diseased retina to be treated by the MLBM cell population and methods of the invention includes activated astrocytes. This can be accomplished by early treatment of the eye when there is an associated gliosis or by using a laser to stimulate local proliferation of activated astrocytes.

In addition to therapeutic uses the isolated myeloid like bone marrow cell populations of the invention are useful as research tools to investigate the physiology of vascular development in the eye and to deliver specific genes to specific locations e.g. astrocytes within the eye. Such uses provide a valuable tool for investigation of gene function and potential therapeutic mechanisms.

Bone marrow cells include a sub population of cells that express the CD44 antigen i.e. the hyaluronic acid receptor and CD11b integrin M . A myeloid like population of bone marrow cells enriched in CD44 and CD11b expressing cells can be isolated from bone marrow by treating bone marrow cells with an antibody to CD44 antigen anti CD44 and or an antibody to CD11b antigen anti CD11b and then selecting cells that immunoreact with the antibody. The antibody then can be removed from the cells by methods that are well known in the art. The cells can be selected for example using by flow cytometry using antibodies bound to or coated on beads followed by filtration or other separation methods that are well known in the art. A majority of the selected cells are lineage negative and express both the CD44 antigen and the CD11b antigen regardless of which antibody is utilized in the isolation.

Bone marrow includes stem cells. Stem cells are typically identified by the distribution of antigens on the surface of the cells for a detailed discussion see a report prepared by the National Institutes of Health Office of Science Policy June 2001 Appendix E Stem Cell Markers which is incorporated herein by reference to the extent pertinent . Approximately 75 of lineage negative hematopoietic stems cells isolated from bone marrow are also CD44 positive. In a preferred embodiment a majority of the cells from the MLBM cell population are lineage negative hematopoietic stem cells i.e. CD44LinHSC .

The present invention provides a method of ameliorating vascular and neuronal degeneration in the retina of a mammal that suffers from an ocular disease. Isolated MLBM cell population of the invention is administered to the retina of the mammal preferably by intravitreal injection. The cells are administered in an amount sufficient to ameliorate vascular and or neuronal degeneration in the retina. Preferably the isolated MLBM cell population is autologous to the mammal to be treated. Preferably the cells from the MLBM cell population are administered in a physiologically tolerable medium such as phosphate buffered saline PBS .

A preferred method comprises isolating the MLBM cell population from the bone marrow of the mammal to be treated and then administering the cells to the mammal in a number sufficient to ameliorate the vascular and or neuronal degeneration of the retina. The cells can be isolated from a mammal suffering from an ocular degenerative disease preferably at an early stage of the ocular disease or from a healthy mammal known to be predisposed to an ocular degenerative disease i.e. through genetic predisposition . In the latter case the isolated MLBM cell population can be stored after isolation and can then be injected prophylactically during early stages of a later developed ocular disease. Preferably the diseased retina includes activated astrocytes to which the cells from the MLBM cell population are targeted. Accordingly early treatment of the eye when there is an associated gliosis is beneficial. Alternatively the retina can be treated with a laser to stimulate local proliferation of activated astrocytes in the retina prior to administering the autologous MLBM cell population.

Hematopoietic stem cells are stem cells that are capable of developing into various blood cell types e.g. B cells T cells granulocytes platelets and erythrocytes. The lineage surface antigens are a group of cell surface proteins that are markers of mature blood cell lineages including CD2 CD3 CD11 CD11a Mac 1 CD11b CD18 CD14 CD16 CD19 CD24 CD33 CD36 CD38 CD45 CD45RA murine Ly 6G murine TER 119 CD56 CD64 CD68 CD86 B7.2 CD66b human leucocyte antigen DR HLA DR and CD235a Glycophorin A . Hematopoietic stem cells that do not express significant levels of these antigens are commonly referred to a lineage negative Lin . Human hematopoietic stem cells commonly express other surface antigens such as CD31 CD34 CD117 c kit and or CD133. Murine hematopoietic stem cells commonly express other surface antigens such as CD34 CD117 c kit Thy 1 and or Sca 1.

Isolated hematopoietic stem cells that do not express significant levels of a lineage surface antigen Lin on their cell surfaces are referred to herein as lineage negative or Lin hematopoietic stem cells i.e. LinHSC. A majority of the cells of the MLBM cell populations of the present invention are Lin and express both a relatively high amount of the CD44 antigen CD44 as well as the CD11b antigen. These CD44CD11bLinHSC are capable of incorporating into developing vasculature and then differentiating to become vascular endothelial cells.

As used herein and in the appended claims the phrase adult in reference to bone marrow and bone marrow cells includes bone marrow isolated postnatally i.e. from juvenile and adult individuals as opposed to embryos. Accordingly the term adult mammal refers to both juvenile postnatal and fully mature mammals as opposed to an embryo or prenatal individual.

The isolated MLBM cell populations of the present invention selectively target astrocytes and incorporate into the retinal neovasculature when intravitreally injected into the eye of the mammalian species such as a mouse or a human from which the cells were isolated.

The isolated MLBM cell populations of the present invention include cells that differentiate to endothelial cells and generate vascular structures within the retina. In particular the MLBM cell population of the present invention is useful for the treatment of retinal neovascular and retinal vascular degenerative diseases and for repair of retinal vascular injury. The MLBM cell population of the present invention also promotes neuronal rescue in the retina and promote upregulation of anti apoptotic genes. Additionally the MLBM cell population of the invention can be utilized to treat retinal defects in the eyes of neonatal mammals such as mammals suffering from oxygen induced retinopathy or retinopathy of prematurity.

It has been found that bone marrow cells that do not express CD44 CD44cells generally express one or more of the following cell markers Ter119 CD45RB220 and CD3e. Utilizing this fact CD44MLBM cells of the present invention can be isolated by a method involving negative cell marker selection. The method comprises contacting a plurality of bone marrow cells with antibodies specific for Ter119 CD45RB220 and CD3e removing cells from the plurality of bone marrow cells that immunoreact with Ter119 CD45RB220 and CD3e antibodies and recovering myeloid like bone marrow cells that are deleted in Ter119 CD45RB220 and CD3e expressing cells. Using this method a cell population can be recovered in which greater than 90 percent of the cells express CD44.

The present invention also provides a method of treating ocular diseases in a mammal comprising isolating from the bone marrow of the mammal a MLBM cell population and intravitreally injecting cells from the MLBM cell population into an eye of the mammal in a number sufficient to arrest the disease. The present method can be utilized to treat ocular diseases such as retinal degenerative diseases retinal vascular degenerative diseases ischemic retinopathies vascular hemorrhages vascular leakage and choroidopathies in neonatal juvenile or fully mature mammals. Examples of such diseases include age related macular degeneration ARMD diabetic retinopathy DR presumed ocular histoplasmosis POHS retinopathy of prematurity ROP sickle cell anemia and retinitis pigmentosa as well as retinal injuries.

The number of cells from the MLBM cell population injected into the eye is sufficient for arresting the disease state of the eye. For example the amount of injected cells can be effective for repairing retinal damage of the eye stabilizing retinal neovasculature maturing retinal neovasculature and preventing or repairing vascular leakage and vascular hemorrhage.

Cells from the MLBM cell population of the present invention can be transfected with therapeutically useful genes such as genes encoding antiangiogenic proteins for use in ocular cell based gene therapy and genes encoding neurotrophic agents to enhance neuronal rescue effects.

The transfected cells can include any gene which is therapeutically useful for treatment of retinal disorders. In one preferred embodiment the transfected cells from the MLBM cell population of the present invention include a gene operably encoding an antiangiogenic peptide including proteins or protein fragments such as TrpRS or antiangiogenic i.e. angiostatic fragments thereof e.g. the fragments of TrpRS designated T2 TrpRS SEQ ID NO 3 in T2 TrpRS GD SEQ ID NO 4 in both of which are preferred angiostatic peptides as well as mini TrpRS SEQ ID NO 5 in and T1 TrpRS SEQ ID NO 6 in . The transfected cells from the MLBM cell population encoding an antiangiogenic peptide of the present invention are useful for treatment of retinal diseases involving abnormal vascular development such as diabetic retinopathy and like diseases. Preferably the cells from the MLBM cell population are human cells.

In another preferred embodiment the transfected cells from the MLBM cell population of the present invention include a gene operably encoding a neurotrophic agent such as nerve growth factor neurotrophin 3 neurotrophin 4 neurotrophin 5 ciliary neurotrophic factor retinal pigmented epithelium derived neurotrophic factor insulin like growth factor glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor brain derived neurotrophic factor and the like. Such neurotrophic cells from the MLBM cell population are useful for promoting neuronal rescue in retinal neuronal degenerative diseases such as glaucoma and retinitis pigmentosa in treatment of injuries to the retinal nerves and the like. Implants of ciliary neurotrophic factor have been reported as useful for the treatment of retinitis pigmentosa see Kirby et al. 2001 3 2 241 8 Farrar et al. 2002 21 857 864 . Brain derived neurotrophic factor reportedly modulates growth associated genes in injured retinal ganglia see Fournier et al. 1997 47 561 572 . Glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor reportedly delays photoreceptor degeneration in retinitis pigmentosa see McGee et al. 2001 4 6 622 9 .

The present invention also provides methods for treating ocular angiogenic diseases by administering transfected cells from the MLBM cell population of the present invention by intravitreal injection of the cells into the eye. Such transfected cells from the MLBM cell population comprise cells from the MLBM cell population transfected with a therapeutically useful gene such as a gene encoding antiangiogenic or neurotrophic gene product. Preferably the transfected cells from the MLBM cell population are human cells.

Preferably at least about 1 10cells from the MLBM cell population or transfected cells from the MLBM cell population are administered by intravitreal injection to a mammalian eye suffering from a retinal degenerative disease. The number of cells to be injected may depend upon the severity of the retinal degeneration the age of the mammal and other factors that will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art of treating retinal diseases. The cells from the MLBM cell population may be administered in a single dose or by multiple dose administration over a period of time as determined by the clinician in charge of the treatment.

The MLBM cell populations of the present invention is useful for the treatment of retinal injuries and retinal defects involving an interruption in or degradation of the retinal vasculature or retinal neuronal degeneration. Human MLBM cell populations also can be used to generate a line of genetically identical cells i.e. clones for use in regenerative or reparative treatment of retinal vasculature as well as for treatment or amelioration of retinal neuronal degeneration. Further more the MLBM cell populations of the present invention are useful as research tools to study retinal vascular development and to deliver genes to selected cell targets such as astrocytes.

A Model for Ocular Angiogenesis. The mouse eye provides a recognized model for the study of mammalian retinal vascular development such as human retinal vascular development. During development of the murine retinal vasculature ischemia driven retinal blood vessels develop in close association with astrocytes. These glial elements migrate onto the third trimester human fetus or the neonatal rodent retina from the optic disc along the ganglion cell layer and spread radially. As the murine retinal vasculature develops endothelial cells utilize this already established astrocytic template to determine the retinal vascular pattern See and . and depicts schematic diagrams of developing mouse retina. Panel a depicts development of the primary plexus dark lines at upper left of the diagram superimposed over the astrocyte template light lines whereas b depicts the second phase of retinal vessel formation. In GCL stands for ganglion cell layer IPL stands for inner plexus layer INL stands for inner nuclear layer OPL stands for outer plexus layer ONL stands for outer nuclear layer RPE stands for retinal pigment epithelium ON stands for optic nerve and P stands for periphery.

At birth retinal vasculature is virtually absent. By postnatal day 14 P14 the retina has developed complex primary superficial and secondary deep layers of retinal vessels coincident with the onset of vision. Initially spoke like peripapillary vessels grow radially over the pre existing astrocytic network towards the periphery becoming progressively interconnected by capillary plexus formation. These vessels grow as a monolayer within the nerve fiber through P10 . Between P7 P8 collateral branches begin to sprout from this primary plexus and penetrate into the retina to the outer plexiform layer where they form the secondary or deep retinal plexus. By P21 the entire network undergoes extensive remodeling and a tertiary or intermediate plexus forms at the inner surface of inner nuclear layer .

The neonatal mouse retinal angiogenesis model is useful for studying the role of HSC during ocular angiogenesis for several reasons. In this physiologically relevant model a large astrocytic template exists prior to the appearance of endogenous blood vessels permitting an evaluation of the role for cell cell targeting during a neovascular process. In addition this consistent and reproducible neonatal retinal vascular process is known to be hypoxia driven in this respect having similarities to many retinal diseases in which ischemia is known to play a role.

Although cell surface marker expression has been extensively evaluated on the EPC population found in preparations of HSC markers that uniquely identify EPC are still poorly defined. To enrich for EPC hematopoietic lineage marker positive cells Lin i.e. B lymphocytes CD45 T lymphocytes CD3 granulocytes Ly 6G monocytes CD11 and erythrocytes TER 119 were depleted from bone marrow mononuclear cells of mice. Sca 1 antigen was used to further enrich for EPC. A comparison of results obtained after intravitreal injection of identical numbers of either Lin Sca 1 cells or Lincells no difference was detected between the two groups. In fact when only LinSca 1 cells were injected far greater incorporation into developing blood vessels was observed.

LinHSC populations are enriched with EPCs based on functional assays. Furthermore LinHSC populations functionally behave quite differently from the Lin HSC populations. Epitopes commonly used to identify EPC for each fraction based on previously reported in vitro characterization studies were also evaluated. While none of these markers were exclusively associated with the Lin fraction all were increased about 70 to about 1800 in the Lin HSC compared to the LinHSC fraction . Panel c illustrates flow cytometric characterization of bone marrow derived Lin HSC and Lin HSC separated cells. The top row of Panel c shows a hematopoietic stem cell dot plot distribution of non antibody labeled cells. R1 defines the quantifiable gated area of positive PE staining R2 indicates GFP positive. Dot plots of Lin HSC are shown in the middle row and dot plots of Lin HSC are shown in the bottom row. The C57B 6 cells were labeled with the PE conjugated antibodies for Sca 1 c kit Flk 1 KDR CD31. Tie 2 data was obtained from Tie 2 GFP mice. The percentages in the corners of the dot plots indicate the percent of positive labeled cells out of total Lin or Lin HSC population. Interestingly accepted EPC markers like Flk 1 KDR Tie 2 and Sca 1 were poorly expressed and thus not used for further fractionation.

Lin HSC can be isolated by a extracting bone marrow from an adult mammal b separating a plurality of monocytes from the bone marrow c labeling the monocytes with biotin conjugated lineage panel antibodies to one or more lineage surface antigens preferably lineage surface antigens selected from the group consisting of CD2 CD3 CD4 CD11 CD11a Mac 1 CD14 CD16 CD19 CD24 CD33 CD36 CD38 CD45 Ly 6G murine TER 119 murine CD45RA CD56 CD64 CD68 CD86 B7.2 CD66b human leucocyte antigen DR HLA DR and CD235a Glycophorin A d removing monocytes that are positive for said one or more lineage surface antigens from the plurality of monocytes and e recovering a population of lineage negative hematopoietic stem cells therefrom.

When the Lin HSC are isolated from adult human bone marrow preferably the monocytes are labeled with biotin conjugated lineage panel antibodies to lineage surface antigens CD2 CD3 CD4 CD11a Mac 1 CD14 CD16 CD19 CD33 CD38 CD45RA CD64 CD68 CD86 B7.2 and CD235a. When the Lin HSC are isolated from adult murine bone marrow preferably the monocytes are labeled with biotin conjugated lineage panel antibodies to lineage surface antigens CD3 CD11 CD45 Ly 6G and TER 119.

Intravitreally Injected HSC Lin Cells Contain EPC that Target Astrocytes and Incorporate into Developing Retinal Vasculature.

To determine whether intravitreally injected Lin HSC can target specific cell types of the retina utilize the astrocytic template and participate in retinal angiogenesis approximately 10cells from a Lin HSC composition of the present invention or Lin HSC cells control about 10cells isolated from the bone marrow of adult GFP or LacZ transgenic mice were injected into postnatal day 2 P2 mouse eyes. Four days after injection P6 many cells from the Lin HSC composition of the present invention derived from GFP or LacZ transgenic mice were adherent to the retina and had the characteristic elongated appearance of endothelial cells . illustrates engraftment of Lin cells into developing mouse retina. As shown in Panel a the four days post injection P6 intravitreally injected eGFP Lin HSC attach and differentiate on the retina.

In many areas of the retinas the GFP expressing cells were arranged in a pattern conforming to underlying astrocytes and resembled blood vessels. These fluorescent cells were observed ahead of the endogenous developing vascular network . Conversely only a small number of LinHSC or adult mouse mesenteric endothelial cells attached to the retinal surface. In order to determine whether cells from an injected Lin HSC population could also attach to retinas with already established vessels a Lin HSC composition was injected into adult eyes. Interestingly no cells were observed to attach to the retina or incorporate into established normal retinal blood vessels . This indicates that the Lin HSC compositions of the present invention do not disrupt a normally developed vasculature and will not initiate abnormal vascularization in normally developed retinas.

In order to determine the relationship between an injected Lin HSC compositions of the present invention and retinal astrocytes a transgenic mouse was used which expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein GFAP a marker of astrocytes and promoter driven green fluorescent protein GFP . Examination of retinas of these GFAP GFP transgenic mice injected with Lin HSC from eGFP transgenic mice demonstrated co localization of the injected eGFP EPC and existing astrocytes arrows . Processes of eGFP Lin HSC were observed to conform to the underlying astrocytic network arrows . Examination of these eyes demonstrated that the injected labeled cells only attached to astrocytes in P6 mouse retinas where the retinal periphery does not yet have endogenous vessels injected cells were observed adherent to astrocytes in these not yet vascularized areas. Surprisingly injected labeled cells were observed in the deeper layers of the retina at the precise location where normal retinal vessels will subsequently develop arrows .

To determine whether injected Lin HSC are stably incorporated into the developing retinal vasculature retinal vessels at several later time points were examined. As early as P9 seven days after injection Lin HSC incorporated into CD31structures . By P16 14 days after injection the cells were already extensively incorporated into retinal vascular like structures . When rhodamine dextran was injected intravascularly to identify functional retinal blood vessels prior to sacrificing the animals the majority of Lin HSC were aligned with patent vessels . Two patterns of labeled cell distribution were observed 1 in one pattern cells were interspersed along vessels in between unlabeled endothelial cells and 2 the other pattern showed that vessels were composed entirely of labeled cells. Injected cells were also incorporated into vessels of the deep vascular plexus . While sporadic incorporation of Lin HSC derived EPC into neovasculature has been previously reported this is the first report of vascular networks being entirely composed of these cells. This demonstrates that cells from a population of bone marrow derived Lin HSC injected intravitreally can efficiently incorporate into any layer of the forming retinal vascular plexus.

Histological examination of non retinal tissues e.g. brain liver heart lung bone marrow did not demonstrate the presence of any GFP positive cells when examined up to 5 or 10 days after intravitreal injection. This indicates that a sub population of cells within the Lin HSC fraction selectively target to retinal astrocytes and stably incorporate into developing retinal vasculature. Since these cells have many characteristics of endothelial cells association with retinal astrocytes elongate morphology stable incorporation into patent vessels and not present in extravascular locations these cells represent EPC present in the Lin HSC population. The targeted astrocytes are of the same type observed in many of the hypoxic retinopathies. It is well known that glial cells are a prominent component of neovascular fronds of tufts observed in DR and other forms of retinal injury. Under conditions of reactive gliosis and ischemia induced neovascularization activated astrocytes proliferate produce cytokines and up regulate GFAP similar to that observed during neonatal retinal vascular template formation in many mammalian species including humans.

Lin HSC populations will target activated astrocytes in adult mouse eyes as they do in neonatal eyes Lin HSC cells were injected into adult eyes with retinas injured by photo coagulation or needle tip . In both models a population of cells with prominent GFAP staining was observed only around the injury site and . Cells from injected Lin HSC compositions localized to the injury site and remained specifically associated with GFAP positive astrocytes and . At these sites Lin HSC cells were also observed to migrate into the deeper layer of retina at a level similar to that observed during neonatal formation of the deep retinal vasculature. Uninjured portions of retina contained no Lin HSC cells identical to that observed when Lin HSC were injected into normal uninjured adult retinas . These data indicate that Lin HSC compositions can selectively target activated glial cells in injured adult retinas with gliosis as well as neonatal retinas undergoing vascularization.

Since intravitreally injected Lin HSC compositions target astrocytes and incorporate into the normal retinal vasculature these cells also stabilize degenerating vasculature in ischemic or degenerative retinal diseases associated with gliosis and vascular degeneration. The rd rd mouse is a model for retinal degeneration that exhibits profound degeneration of photoreceptor and retinal vascular layers by one month after birth. The retinal vasculature in these mice develops normally until P16 at which time the deeper vascular plexus regresses in most mice the deep and intermediate plexuses have nearly completely degenerated by P30.

To determine whether HSC can rescue the regressing vessels Lin or Lin HSC from Balb c mice were injected into rd rd mice intravitreally at P6. By P33 after injection with Lin cells vessels of the deepest retinal layer were nearly completely absent and . In contrast most Lin HSC injected retinas by P33 had a nearly normal retinal vasculature with three parallel well formed vascular layers and . Quantification of this effect demonstrated that the average length of vessels in the deep vascular plexus of Lin injected rd rd eyes was nearly three times greater than untreated or Lin cell treated eyes . Surprisingly injection of a Lin HSC composition derived from rd rd adult mouse FVB N bone marrow also rescued degenerating rd rd neonatal mouse retinal vasculature . Degeneration of the vasculature in rd rd mouse eyes in observed as early as 2 3 weeks post natally. Injection of Lin HSC as late as P15 also resulted in partial stabilization of the degenerating vasculature in the rd rd mice for at least one month and .

A Lin HSC composition injected into younger e.g. P2 rd rd mice also incorporated into the developing superficial vasculature. By P11 these cells were observed to migrate to the level of the deep vascular plexus and form a pattern identical to that observed in the wild type outer retinal vascular layer . In order to more clearly describe the manner in which cells from injected Lin HSC compositions incorporate into and stabilize degenerating retinal vasculature in the rd rd mice a Lin HSC composition derived from Balb c mice was injected into Tie 2 GFP FVB mouse eyes. The FVB mice have the rd rd genotype and because they express the fusion protein Tie 2 GFP all endogenous blood vessels are fluorescent.

When non labeled cells from a Lin HSC composition are injected into neonatal Tie 2 GFP FVB eyes and are subsequently incorporated into the developing vasculature there should be non labeled gaps in the endogenous Tie 2 GFP labeled vessels that correspond to the incorporated non labeled Lin HSC that was injected. Subsequent staining with another vascular marker e.g. CD 31 then delineates the entire vessel permitting determination as to whether non endogenous endothelial cells are part of the vasculature. Two months after injection CD31 positive Tie 2 GFP negative vessels were observed in the retinas of eyes injected with the Lin HSC composition . Interestingly the majority of rescued vessels contained Tie 2 GFP positive cells . The distribution of pericytes as determined by staining for smooth muscle actin was not changed by Lin HSC injection regardless of whether there was vascular rescue . These data clearly demonstrate that intravitreally injected Lin HSC cells migrate into the retina participate in the formation of normal retinal blood vessels and stabilize endogenous degenerating vasculature in a genetically defective mouse.

The majority of retinal vascular diseases involve abnormal vascular proliferation rather than degeneration. Transgenic cells targeted to astrocytes can be used to deliver an anti angiogenic protein and inhibit angiogenesis. Cells from Lin HSC compositions were transfected with T2 tryptophanyl tRNA synthetase T2 TrpRS . T2 TrpRS is a 43 kD fragment of TrpRS that potently inhibits retinal angiogenesis . On P12 retinas of eyes injected with a control plasmid transfected Lin HSC composition no T2 TrpRS gene on P2 had normal primary and secondary retinal vascular plexuses. When the T2 TrpRS transfected Lin HSC composition of the present invention was injected into P2 eyes and evaluated 10 days later the primary network had significant abnormalities and formation of the deep retinal vasculature was nearly completely inhibited . The few vessels observed in these eyes were markedly attenuated with large gaps between vessels. The extent of inhibition by T2 TrpRS secreting Lin HSCs is detailed in Table 1.

T2 TrpRS is produced and secreted by cells in the Lin HSC composition in vitro and after injection of these transfected cells into the vitreous a 30 kD fragment of T2 TrpRS in the retina was observed. This 30 kD fragment was specifically observed only in retinas injected with transfected Lin HSC and this decrease in apparent molecular weight compared to the recombinant or in vitro synthesized protein may be due to processing or degradation of the T2 TrpRS in vivo. These data indicate that Lin HSC compositions can be used to deliver functionally active genes such as genes expressing angiostatic molecules to the retinal vasculature by targeting to activated astrocytes. While it is possible that the observed angiostatic effect is due to cell mediated activity this is very unlikely since eyes treated with identical but non T2 transfected Lin HSC compositions had normal retinal vasculature.

Intravitreally injected Lin HSC populations localize to retinal astrocytes incorporate into vessels and can be useful in treating many retinal diseases. While most cells from injected HSC compositions adhere to the astrocytic template small numbers migrate deep into the retina homing to regions where the deep vascular network will subsequently develop. Even though no GFAP positive astrocytes were observed in this area prior to 42 days postnatally this does not rule out the possibility that GFAP negative glial cells are already present to provide a signal for Lin HSC localization. Previous studies have shown that many diseases are associated with reactive gliosis. In DR in particular glial cells and their extracellular matrix are associated with pathological angiogenesis.

Since cells from injected Lin HSC compositions specifically attached to GFAP expressing glial cells regardless of the type of injury Lin HSC compositions of the present invention can be used to target pre angiogenic lesions in the retina. For example in the ischemic retinopathies such as diabetes neovascularization is a response to hypoxia. By targeting Lin HSC compositions to sites of pathological neovascularization developing neovasculature can be stabilized preventing abnormalities of neovasculature such as hemorrhage or edema the causes of vision loss associated with DR and can potentially alleviate the hypoxia that originally stimulated the neovascularization. Abnormal blood vessels can be restored to normal condition. Furthermore angiostatic proteins such as T2 TrpRS can be delivered to sites of pathological angiogenesis by using transfected Lin HSC compositions and laser induced activation of astrocytes. Since laser photocoagulation is commonly used in clinical ophthalmology this approach has application for many retinal diseases. While such cell based approaches have been explored in cancer therapy their use for eye diseases is more advantageous since intraocular injection makes it possible to deliver large numbers of cells directly to the site of disease.

MACS was used to separate Lin HSC from bone marrow of enhanced green fluorescent protein eGFP C3H rd rd FVB rd rd mice as described above. Lin HSC containing EPC from these mice were injected intravitreally into P6 C3H or FVB mouse eyes. The retinas were collected at various time points 1 month 2 months and 6 months after injection. The vasculature was analyzed by scanning laser confocal microscope after staining with antibodies to CD31 and retinal histology after nuclear staining with DAPI. Microarray gene expression analysis of mRNA from retinas at varying time points was also used to identify genes potentially involved in the effect.

Eyes of rd rd mice had profound degeneration of both neurosensory retina and retinal vasculature by P21. Eyes of rd rd mice treated with Lin HSC on P6 maintained a normal retinal vasculature for as long as 6 months both deep and intermediate layers were significantly improved when compared to the controls at all time points 1M 2M and 6M see . In addition we observed that retinas treated with LinHSC were also thicker 1M 1.2 fold 2M 1.3 fold 6M 1.4 fold and had greater numbers of cells in the outer nuclear layer 1M 2.2 fold 2M 3.7 fold 6M 5.7 fold relative to eyes treated with Lin HSC as a control. Large scale genomic analysis of rescued e.g. Lin HSC compared to control untreated or non Lin treated rd rd retinas demonstrated a significant upregulation of genes encoding sHSPs small heat shock proteins and specific growth factors that correlated with vascular and neural rescue including genes encoding the proteins listed in panels A and B.

The bone marrow derived Lin HSC populations significantly and reproducibly induced maintenance of a normal vasculature and dramatically increased photoreceptor and other neuronal cell layers in the rd rd mouse. This neurotrophic rescue effect correlated with significant upregulation of small heat shock proteins and growth factors and provides insights into therapeutic approaches to currently untreatable retinal degenerative disorders.

Normal postnatal retinal vascular and neuronal development in mice has been well described and is analogous to changes observed in the third trimester human fetus Dorrell et al. 2002 43 3500 3510 . Mice homozygous for the rd1 gene share many characteristics of human retinal degeneration Frasson et al. 1999 5 1183 1187 and exhibit rapid photoreceptor PR loss accompanied by severe vascular atrophy as the result of a mutation in the gene encoding PR cGMP phosphodiesterase Bowes et al. 1990 347 677 680 . To examine the vasculature during retinal development and its subsequent degeneration antibodies against collagen IV CIV an extracellular matrix ECM protein of mature vasculature and CD31 PECAM 1 a marker for endothelial cells were used . Retinas of rd1 rd1 C3H HeJ developed normally until approximately postnatal day P 8 when degeneration of the photoreceptor containing outer nuclear layer ONL began. The ONL rapidly degenerated and cells died by apoptosis such that only a single layer of nuclei remained by P20. Double staining of the whole mounted retinas with antibodies to both CIV and CD31 revealed details of the vascular degeneration in rd1 rd1 mice similar to that described by others Blanks et al. 1986 254 543 553 . The primary and deep retinal vascular layers appeared to develop normally though P12 after which there is a rapid loss of endothelial cells as evidenced by the absence of CD31 staining. CD31 positive endothelial cells were present in a normal distribution through P12 but rapidly disappeared after that. Interestingly CIV positive staining remained present throughout the time points examined suggesting that the vessels and associated ECM formed normally but only the matrix remained after P13 by which time no CD31 positive cells were observed. middle panels . The intermediate vascular plexus also degenerates after P21 but the progression is slower than that observed in the deep plexus upper panel . Retinal vascular and neural cell layers of a normal mouse are shown for comparison to the rd1 rd1 mouse right panels .

Intravitreally injected Lin HSCs incorporate into endogenous retinal vasculature in all three vascular plexuses and prevent the vessels from degenerating. Interestingly the injected cells are virtually never observed in the outer nuclear layer. These cells either incorporate into the forming retinal vessels or are observed in close proximity to these vessels. Murine Lin HSCs from C3H HeJ were intravitreally injected into C3H HeJ rd1 rd1 mouse eyes at P6 just prior to the onset of degeneration. By P30 control cell CD31 injected eyes exhibited the typical rd1 rd1 phenotype i.e. nearly complete degeneration of the deep vascular plexus and ONL was observed in every retina examined. Eyes injected with Lin HSCs maintained normal appearing intermediate and deep vascular plexuses. Surprisingly significantly more cells were observed in the internuclear layer INL and ONL of Lin HSC injected eyes than in control cell injected eyes . This rescue effect of Lin HSCs could be observed at 2 months and for as long as 6 months after injection . Differences in the vasculature of the intermediate and deep plexuses of Lin HSC injected eyes as well as the neuronal cell containing INL and ONL were significant at all time points measured when rescued and non rescued eyes were compared and C . This effect was quantified by measuring the total length of the vasculature and counting the number of DAPI positive cell nuclei observed in the ONL . Simple linear regression analysis was applied to the data at all time points.

A statistically significant correlation was observed between vascular rescue and neuronal e.g. ONL thickness rescue at P30 p

Electroretinograms ERGs were performed on mice 2 months after injection of control cells or murine Lin HSCs . Immunohistochemical and microscopic analysis was done with each eye following ERG recordings to confirm that vascular and neuronal rescue had occurred. Representative ERG recordings from treated rescued and control non rescued eyes show that in the rescued eyes the digitally subtracted signal treated minus untreated eyes produced a clearly detectable signal with an amplitude on the order of 8 10 microvolts . Clearly the signals from both eyes are severely abnormal. However consistent and detectable ERGs were recordable from the Lin HSC treated eyes. In all cases the ERG from the control eye was non detectable. While the amplitudes of the signals in rescued eyes were considerably lower than normal the signals were consistently observed whenever there was histological rescue and were on the order of magnitude of those reported by other gene based rescue studies. Overall these results are demonstrate of some degree of functional rescue in the eyes treated with the Lin HSCs.

Rescued and non rescued retinas were analyzed immunohistochemically with antibodies specific for rod or cone opsin. The same eyes used for the ERG recordings presented in were analyzed for rod or cone opsin. In wild type mouse retinas less than about 5 of photoreceptors present are cones Soucy et al. 1998 21 481 493 and the immunohistochemical staining patterns observed with red green cone opsin as shown in or rod rhodopsin as shown in were consistent with this percentage of cone cells. When wild type retinas were stained with pre immune IgG no staining was observed anywhere in the neurosensory retinas other than autoflouresence of the blood vessels . Two months after birth retinas of non injected rd rd mice had an essentially atrophic outer nuclear layer that does not exhibit any staining with antibodies to red green cone opsin or rhodopsin . Eyes injected with control CD31 HSC also did not stain positively for the presence of either cone FIG. E or rod opsin. In contrast contralateral eyes injected with Lin HSC had about 3 to about 8 rows of nuclei in a preserved outer nuclear layer most of these cells were positive for cone opsin with approximately 1 3 positive for rod opsin . Remarkably this is nearly the reverse of what is ordinarily observed in the normal mouse retina which is rod dominated. These data demonstrate that the injection of Lin HSC preserves cones for extended periods of time during which they would ordinarily degenerate.

Lin HSCs isolated from human bone marrow behave similarly to murine Lin HSCs. Bone marrow was collected from human donors and the Lin HSCs were depleted producing a population of human Lin HSCs hLin HSCs . These cells were labeled ex vivo with fluorescent dye and injected into C3SnSmn.CB17 Prkdc SCID mouse eyes. The injected hLin HSCs migrated to and targeted sites of retinal angiogenesis in a fashion identical to that observed when murine Lin HSCs were injected . In addition to the vascular targeting the human Lin HSCs also provided a robust rescue effect on both the vascular and neuronal cell layers of the rd1 rd1 mice and C . This observation confirms the presence of cells in human bone marrow that target retinal vasculature and can prevent retinal degeneration.

While the rd1 rd1 mouse is the most widely used and best characterized model for retinal degeneration Chang et al. 2002 42 517 525 the degeneration is very rapid and in this regard differs from the usual slower time course observed in the human disease. In this strain photoreceptor cell degeneration begins around P8 a time when the retinal vasculature is still rapidly expanding . Subsequent degeneration of the deep retinal vasculature occurs even while the intermediate plexus is still forming and thus the retinas of rd1 rd1 mice never completely develops unlike that observed in most humans with this disease. An rd10 mouse model which has a slower time course of degeneration and more closely resembles the human retinal degenerative condition was used to investigate Lin HSC mediated vascular rescue. In the rd10 mouse photoreceptor cell degeneration begins around P21 and vascular degeneration begins shortly thereafter.

Since normal neurosensory retinal development is largely complete by P21 the degeneration is observed to start after the retina has completed differentiation and in this way is more analogous to human retinal degenerations than the rd1 rd1 mouse model. Lin HSCs or control cells from rd10 mice were injected into P6 eyes and the retinas were evaluated at varying time points. At P21 the retinas from both Lin HSC and control cell injected eyes appeared normal with complete development of all vascular layers and normal development of the INL and ONL and H . At approximately P21 the retinal degeneration began and progressed with age. By P30 the control cell injected retinas exhibited severe vascular and neuronal degeneration FIG. I while the Lin HSC injected retinas maintained nearly normal vascular layers and photoreceptor cells . The difference between the rescued and non rescued eyes was more pronounced at later time points compare and G to J and K . In the control treated eyes the progression of vascular degeneration was very clearly observed by immunohistochemical staining for CD31 and collagen IV . The control treated eyes were nearly completely negative for CD31 whereas collagen IV positive vascular tracks remained evident indicating that vascular regression rather than incomplete vascular formation had occurred. In contrast LinHSC treated eyes had both CD31 and collagen IV positive vessels that appeared very similar to normal wild type eyes compare and I .

Large scale genomics microarray analysis was used to analyze rescued and non rescued retinas to identify putative mediators of neurotrophic rescue. Gene expression in rd1 rd1 mouse retinas treated with Lin HSCs was compared to uninjected retinas as well as retinas injected with control cells CD31 . These comparisons each were performed in triplicate. To be considered present genes were required to have expression levels at least 2 fold higher than background levels in all three triplicates. Genes that were upregulated 3 fold in Lin HSC protected retinas compared to control cell injected and non injected rd rd mouse retinas are shown in panels A and B. Coefficient of variance COV levels were calculated for the expressed genes by dividing the standard deviation by the mean expression level of each cRNA replicate. In addition the correlation between expression levels and noise variance was calculated by correlating the mean and standard deviation SD . A correlation between gene expression level and standard deviation for each gene was obtained allowing background levels and reliable expression level thresholds to be determined. As a whole the data fell well within acceptable limits Tu et al. 2002 99 14031 14036 . The genes that are discussed individually below exhibited expression levels above these critical expression levels. Paired t test values for the discussed genes were also determined. In each case p values are reasonable near or below 0.05 which demonstrates that there are similarities between replicates and probable significant differences between the different test groups. Many of the significantly upregulated genes including MAD and Ying Yang 1 YY 1 Austen et al. 1997 224 123 130. encode proteins with functions involving the protection of cells from apoptosis. A number of crystallin genes which have sequence homology and similar functions to known heat shock proteins involving protection of cells from stress were also upregulated by Lin HSC treatment. Expression of crystallin was localized to the ONL by immunohistochemical analysis . shows that crystallin A is upregulated in rescued outer nuclear layer cells after treatment with Lin HSCs but not in contralateral eyes treated with control cells. The left panel shows IgG staining control in rescued retina. The middle panel shows crystallin A in a rescued retina. The right panel shows crystallin A in non rescued retina.

Messenger RNA from rd1 rd1 mouse retinas rescued with human Lin HSCs were hybridized to human specific Affymetrix U133A microarray chips. After stringent analysis a number of genes were found whose mRNA expression was human specific above background and significantly higher in the human Lin HSC rescued retinas compared to the murine Lin HSC rescued retinas and the human control cell injected non rescued retinas panel C . CD6 a cell adhesion molecule expressed at the surface of primitive and newly differentiated CD34 hematopoietic stem cells and interferon alpha 13 another gene expressed by hematopoietic stem cells were both found by the microarray bioinformatics technique validating the evaluation protocol. In addition several growth factors and neurotrophic factors were expressed above background by human Lin HSC rescued mouse retina samples panel D .

Markers for lineage committed hematopoietic cells were used to negatively select a population of bone marrow derived Lin HSC containing EPC. While the sub population of bone marrow derived Lin HSC that can serve as EPC is not characterized by commonly used cell surface markers the behavior of these cells in developing or injured retinal vasculature is entirely different than that observed for Lin or adult endothelial cell populations. These cells selectively target to sites of retinal angiogenesis and participate in the formation of patent blood vessels.

Inherited retinal degenerative diseases are often accompanied by loss of retinal vasculature. Effective treatment of such diseases requires restoration of function as well as maintenance of complex tissue architecture. While several recent studies have explored the use of cell based delivery of trophic factors or stem cells themselves some combination of both may be necessary. For example use of growth factor therapy to treat retinal degenerative disease resulted in unregulated overgrowth of blood vessels resulting in severe disruption of the normal retinal tissue architecture. The use of neural or retinal stem cells to treat retinal degenerative disease may reconstitute neuronal function but a functional vasculature will also be necessary to maintain retinal functional integrity. Incorporation of cells from a Lin HSC population into the retinal vessels of rd rd mice stabilized the degenerative vasculature without disrupting retinal structure. This rescue effect was also observed when the cells were injected into P15 rd rd mice. Since vascular degeneration begins on P16 in rd rd mice this observation expands the therapeutic window for effective Lin HSC treatment. Retinal neurons and photoreceptors are preserved and visual function is maintained in eyes injected with the Lin HSC cells.

Adult bone marrow derived Lin HSCs exert profound vasculo and neurotrophic effects when injected intravitreally into mice with retinal degenerative disease. This rescue effect persists for up to 6 months after treatment and is most efficacious when the Lin HSCs are injected prior to complete retinal degeneration up to 16 days after birth in mice that ordinarily exhibit complete retinal degeneration by 30 days postnatally . This rescue is observed in two mouse models of retinal degeneration and remarkably can be accomplished with adult human bone marrow derived HSCs when the recipient is an immunodeficient rodent with retinal degeneration e.g. the SCID mouse or when the donor is a mouse with retinal degeneration. While several recent reports have described a partial phenotypic rescue in mice or dogs with retinal degeneration after viral based gene rescue with the wild type gene Ali et al. 2000 25 306 310 Takahashi et al. 1999 73 7812 7816 Acland et al. 2001 28 92 95. the present invention is the first generic cell based therapeutic effect achieved by vascular rescue. Thus the potential utility of such an approach in treating a group of diseases e.g. retinitis pigmentosa with over 100 known associated mutations is more practical than creating individual gene therapies to treat each known mutation.

The precise molecular basis of the neurotrophic rescue effect remains unknown but is observed only when there is concomitant vascular stabilization rescue. The presence of injected stem cells per se is not sufficient to generate a neurotrophic rescue and the clear absence of stem cell derived neurons in the outer nuclear layer rules out the possibility that the injected cells are transforming into photoreceptors. Data obtained by microarray gene expression analysis demonstrated a significant up regulation of genes known to have anti apoptotic effects. Since most neuronal death observed in retinal degenerations is by apoptosis such protection may be of great therapeutic benefit in prolonging the life of photoreceptors and other neurons critical to visual function in these diseases. C myc is a transcription factor that participates in apoptosis by upregulation of various downstream apoptosis inducing factors. C myc expression was increased 4.5 fold in rd rd mice over wild type indicating potential involvement in the photoreceptor degeneration observed in the rd1 rd1 mouse. Mad1 and YY 1 two genes dramatically upregulated in LinHSC protected retinas panel A are known to suppress the activity of c myc thus inhibiting c myc induced apoptosis. Overexpression of Mad1 has also been shown to suppress Fas induced activation of caspase 8 another critical component of the apoptotic pathway. Upregulation of these two molecules may play a role in protection of the retina from vascular and neural degeneration by preventing the initiation of apoptosis that normally leads to degeneration in rd rd mice.

Another set of genes that were greatly upregulated in LinHSC protected retinas includes members of the crystallin family panel B .

Similar to heat shock and other stress induced proteins crystallins may be activated by retinal stress and provide a protective effect against apoptosis. Abnormally low expression of crystallin A is correlated with photoreceptor loss in a rat model of retinal dystrophy and a recent proteomic analysis of the retina in the rd rd mouse demonstrated induction of crystallin upregulation in response to retinal degeneration. Based on our microarray data of EPC rescued rd rd mouse retinas upregulation of crystallins appear to play a key role in EPC mediated retinal neuroprotection.

Genes such as c myc Mad1 Yx 1 and the crystallins are likely to be downstream mediators of neuronal rescue. Neurotrophic agents can regulate anti apoptotic gene expression although our microarray analysis of retinas rescued with mouse stem cells did not demonstrate induction of increased levels of known neurotrophic factors. Analysis of human bone marrow derived stem cell mediated rescue with human specific chips did on the other hand demonstrate low but significant increases in the expression of multiple growth factor genes.

The upregulated genes include several members of the fibroblast growth factor family and otoferlin. Mutations in the otoferlin gene are associated with genetic disorders leading to deafness due to auditory neuropathy. It is possible that otoferlin production by injected LinHSCs contributes to the prevention of retinal neuropathy as well. Historically it has long been assumed that vascular changes observed in patients and animals with retinal degeneration were secondary to decreased metabolic demand as the photoreceptors die. The present data indicate that at least for mice with inherited retinal degeneration preserving normal vasculature can help maintain components of the outer nuclear layer as well.

Recent reports in the literature would support the concept that tissue specific vasculature has trophic effects that go beyond that expected from simply providing vascular nourishment. For example liver endothelial cells can be induced to produce after VEGFR1 activation growth factors critical to hepatocyte regeneration and maintenance in the face of hepatic injury LeCouter et al. 2003 299 890 893 .

Similar indicative interactions between vascular endothelial cells and adjacent hepatic parenchymal cells are reportedly involved in liver organogenesis well before the formation of functional blood vessels. Endogenous retinal vasculature in individuals with retinal degeneration may not facilitate so dramatic a rescue but if this vasculature is buttressed with endothelial progenitors derived from bone marrow hematopoietic stem cell populations they may make the vasculature more resistant to degeneration and at the same time facilitate retinal neuronal as well as vascular survival. In humans with retinal degeneration delaying the onset of complete retinal degeneration may provide years of additional sight. The animals treated with LinHSCs had significant preservation of an ERG which may be sufficient to support vision.

Clinically it is widely appreciated that there may be substantial loss of photoreceptors and other neurons while still preserving functional vision. At some point the critical threshold is crossed and vision is lost. Since nearly all of the human inherited retinal degenerations are of early but slow onset an individual with retinal degeneration can be identified and treated intravitreally with a graft of autologous bone marrow stem cells of the invention to delay retinal degeneration and concomitant loss of vision. To enhance targeting and incorporation of the stem cells of the invention the presence of activated astrocytes is desirable Otani et al. 2002 8 1004 1010 this can be accomplished by early treatment when there is an associated gliosis or by using a laser to stimulate local proliferation of activated astrocytes. Optionally ex vivo transfection of the stem cells with one or more neurotrophic substances prior to intraocular injection can be used to enhance the rescue effect. This approach can be applied to the treatment of other visual neuronal degenerative disorders such as glaucoma in which there is retinal ganglion cell degeneration.

The Lin HSC populations from adult bone marrow contain a population of EPC that can promote angiogenesis by targeting reactive astrocytes and incorporate into an established template without disrupting retinal structure. The Lin HSC also provide a long term neurotrophic rescue effect in eyes suffering from retinal degeneration. In addition genetically modified autologous Lin HSC compositions containing EPC can be transplanted into ischemic or abnormally vascularized eyes and can stably incorporate into new vessels and neuronal layers and continuously deliver therapeutic molecules locally for prolonged periods of time. Such local delivery of genes that express pharmacological agents in physiologically meaningful doses represents a new paradigm for treating currently untreatable ocular diseases.

Photoreceptors in the normal mouse retina for example are predominantly rods but the outer nuclear layer observed after rescue with Lin HSCs of the invention contained predominantly cones. Most inherited human retinal degenerations occur as a result of primary rod specific defects and loss of the cones is believed to be secondary to rod dysfunction which is likely related to the loss of some trophic factor expressed by rods.

General Procedure. All in vivo evaluations were performed in accordance with the NIH Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals and all evaluation procedures were approved by The Scripps Research Institute TSRI La Jolla Calif. Animal Care and Use Committee. Bone marrow cells were extracted from B6.129S7 Gtrosa26 Tie 2GFP ACTbEGFP FVB NJ rd rd mice or Balb cBYJ adult mice The Jackson Laboratory ME .

Monocytes were then separated by density gradient separation using HISTOPAQUE polysucrose gradient Sigma St. Louis Mo. and labeled with biotin conjugated lineage panel antibodies CD45 CD3 Ly 6G CD11 TER 119 Pharmingen San Diego Calif. for Lin selection in mice. Lineage positive Lin cells were separated and removed from Lin HSC using a magnetic separation device AUTOMACS sorter Miltenyi Biotech Auburn Calif. . The resulting Lin HSC population containing endothelial progenitor cells was further characterized using a FACS Calibur flow cytometer Becton Dickinson Franklin Lakes N.J. using the following antibodies PE conjugated Sca 1 c kit KDR and CD31 Pharmingen San Diego Calif. . Tie 2 GFP bone marrow cells were used for the characterization of Tie 2.

To harvest adult mouse endothelial cells mesenteric tissue was surgically removed from ACTbEGFP mouse and placed in collagenase Worthington Lakewood N.J. to digest the tissue followed by filtration using a 45 m filter. Flow through was collected and incubated with Endothelial Growth Media Clonetics San Diego Calif. . Endothelial characteristics were confirmed by observing morphological cobblestone appearance staining with CD31 mAb Pharmingen and examining cultures for the formation of tube like structures in MATRIGEL matrix Beckton Dickinson Franklin Lakes N.J. .

Murine Lin HSC Population A. Bone marrow cells were extracted from ACTbEGFP mice by the General Procedure described above. The Lin HSC cells were characterized by FACS flow cytometry for CD31 c kit Sca 1 Flk 1 and Tie 2 cell surface antigen markers. The results are shown in . About 81 of the Lin HSC exhibited the CD31 marker about 70.5 of the Lin HSC exhibited the c kit marker about 4 of the Lin HSC exhibited the Sca 1 marker about 2.2 of the Lin HSC exhibited the Flk 1 marker and about 0.91 of the Lin HSC cell exhibited the Tie 2 marker. In contrast the Lin HSC that were isolated from these bone marrow cells had a significantly different cell marker profile i.e. CD31 37.4 c kit 20 Sca 1 2.8 Flk 0.05 .

Murine Lin HSC Population B. Bone marrow cells were extracted from Balb C ACTbEGFP and C3H mice by the General Procedure described above. The Lin HSC cells were analyzed for the presence of cell surface markers Sca 1 Flk 1 KDR c kit CD117 CD34 CD31 and various integrins 1 2 3 4 5 6 and . The results are shown in Table 2.

An eyelid fissure was created in a mouse eyelid with a fine blade to expose the P2 to P6 eyeball. Lineage negative HSC Population A of the present invention approximately 10cells in about 0.5 l to about 1 l of cell culture medium was then injected intravitreally using a 33 gauge Hamilton Reno N.V. needled syringe.

Murine Lin HSC Population A were transfected with DNA encoding the T2 fragment of TrpRS also enclosing a Histag SEQ ID NO 1 using FuGENE 6 Transfection Reagent Roche Indianapolis Ind. according to manufacturer s protocol. Lin HSC cells about 10cell per ml were suspended in OPTI MEM medium Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. containing stem cell factor PeproTech Rocky Hill N.J. . DNA about 1 g and FuGENE reagent about 3 l mixture was then added and the mixtures were incubated at about 37 C. for about 18 hours. After incubation cells were washed and collected. The transfection rate of this system was approximately 17 as confirmed by FACS analysis. T2 TrpRS production was confirmed by western blotting. The amino acid sequence of His tagged T2 TrpRS is shown as SEQ ID NO 2 .

Mouse retinas were harvested at various time points and were prepared for either whole mounting or frozen sectioning. For whole mounts retinas were fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde and blocked in 50 fetal bovine serum FBS and 20 normal goat serum for one hour at ambient room temperature. Retinas were processed for primary antibodies and detected with secondary antibodies. The primaries used were anti Collagen IV Chemicon Temecula Calif. anti gal Promega Madison Wis. anti GFAP Dako Cytomation Carpenteria Calif. anti smooth muscle actin SMA Dako Cytomation . Secondary antibodies used were conjugated either to Alexa 488 or 594 fluorescent markers Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. . Images were taken using an MRC 1024 Confocal microscope Bio Rad Hercules Calif. . Three dimensional images were created using LASERSHARP software Bio Rad to examine the three different layers of vascular development in the whole mount retina. The difference in GFP pixel intensity between enhanced GFP eGFP mice and GFAP wtGFP mice distinguished by confocal microscopy was utilized to create the 3 dimensional images.

For T2 TrpRS analysis the primary and deep plexus were reconstructed from the three dimensional images of mouse retinas. The primary plexus was divided into two categories normal development or halted vascular progression. The categories of inhibition of deep vascular development were construed based upon the percentage of vascular inhibition including the following criteria complete inhibition of deep plexus formation was labeled Complete normal vascular development including less than 25 inhibition was labeled Normal and the remainder labeled Partial. For the rd rd mouse rescue data four separate areas of the deeper plexus in each whole mounted retina was captured using a 10 lens. The total length of vasculature was calculated for each image summarized and compared between the groups. To acquire accurate information Lin HSC were injected into one eye and Lin HSC into another eye of the same mouse. Non injected control retinas were taken from the same litter.

Laser and scar models were created using either a diode laser 150 mW 1 second 50 mm or mechanically by puncturing the mouse retina with a 27 gauge needle. Five days after injury cells were injected using the intravitreal method. Eyes were harvested from the mice five days later.

Adult murine bone marrow derived lineage negative hematopoietic stem cells Lin HSC have a vasculotrophic and neurotrophic rescue effect in a mouse model of retinal degeneration. Right eyes of 10 day old mice were injected intravitreally with about 0.5 microliters containing about 10LinHSC of the present invention and evaluated 2 months later for the presence of retinal vasculature and neuronal layer nuclear count. The left eyes of the same mice were injected with about the same number of LinHSC as a control and were similarly evaluated. As shown in in the LinHSC treated eyes the retinal vasculature appeared nearly normal the inner nuclear layer was nearly normal and the outer nuclear layer ONL had about 3 to about 4 layers of nuclei. In contrast the contralateral LinHSC treated eye had a markedly atrophic middle retinal vascular layer a completely atrophic outer retinal vascular layer the inner nuclear layer was markedly atrophic and the outer nuclear layer was completely gone. This was dramatically illustrated in Mouse 3 and Mouse 5. In Mouse 1 there was no rescue effect and this was true for approximately 15 of the injected mice.

When visual function was assessed with electroretinograms ERG the restoration of a positive ERG was observed when both the vascular and neuronal rescue was observed Mice 3 and 5 . Positive ERG was not observed when there was no vascular or neuronal rescue Mouse 1 . This correlation between vascular and neurotrophic rescue of the rd rd mouse eyes by the LinHSC of the present invention is illustrated by a regression analysis plot shown in . A correlation between neuronal y axis and vascular x axis recovery was observed for the intermediate vasculature type r 0.45 and for the deep vasculature r 0.67 .

Bone marrow cells were extracted from healthy adult human volunteers by the General Procedure described above. Monocytes were then separated by density gradient separation using HISTOPAQUE polysucrose gradient Sigma St. Louis Mo. . To isolate the Lin HSC population from human bone marrow mononuclear cells the following biotin conjugated lineage panel antibodies were used with the magnetic separation system AUTOMACS sorter Miltenyi Biotech Auburn Calif. CD2 CD3 CD4 CD11a Mac 1 CD14 CD16 CD19 CD33 CD38 CD45RA CD64 CD68 CD86 CD235a Pharmingen .

The human Lin HSC population was further separated into two sub populations based on CD133 expression. The cells were labeled with biotin conjugated CD133 antibodies and separated into CD133 positive and CD133 negative sub populations.

C3H HeJ C3SnSmn.CB17 Prkdc SCID and rd10 mouse strains were used as retinal degeneration models. C3H HeJ and C3SnSmn.CB17 Prkdc SCID mice The Jackson Laboratory Maine were homozygous for the retinal degeneration 1 rd1 mutation a mutation that causes early onset severe retinal degeneration. The mutation is located in exon 7 of the Pde6b gene encoding the rod photoreceptor cGMP phosphodiesterase subunit. The mutation in this gene has been found in human patients with autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa RP . C3SnSmn.CB17 Prkdc SCID mice are also homozygous for the severe combined immune deficiency spontaneous mutation Prkdc SCID and were used for human cell transfer experiments. Retinal degeneration in rd10 mice is caused by a mutation in exon 13 of Pde6b gene. This is also a clinically relevant RP model with later onset and milder retinal degeneration than rd1 rd1 . All evaluations were performed in accordance with the NIH Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals and all procedures were approved by The Scripps Research Institute Animal Care and Use Committee.

An eyelid fissure was created in a mouse eyelid with a fine blade to expose the P2 to P6 eyeball. Lineage negative HSC cells for murine population A or human population C approximately 10cells in about 0.5 l to about 1 l of cell culture medium were then injected in the mouse eye intravitreally using a 33 gauge Hamilton Reno N.V. needled syringe. To visualize the injected human cells cells were labeled with dye Cell tracker green CMFDA Molecular Probes before injection.

Retinas were harvested at various time points and fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde PFA and methanol followed by blocking in 50 FBS 20 NGS for one hour at room temperature. To stain retinal vasculature retinas were incubated with anti CD31 Pharmingen and anti collagen IV Chemicon antibodies followed by Alexa 488 or 594 conjugated secondary antibodies Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. . The retinas were laid flat with four radial relaxing incisions to obtain a whole mount preparation. Images of vasculature in intermediate or deep retinal vascular plexuses see Dorrell et al. 2002 43 3500 3510 were obtained using a Radiance MP2100 confocal microscope and LASERSHARP software Biorad Hercules Calif. . For quantification of vasculature four independent fields 900 m 900 m were chosen randomly from the mid portion of the intermediate or deep vascular layer and the total length of vasculature was measured using LASERPIX analyzing software Biorad . The total lengths of these four fields in the same plexus were used for further analysis.

The flat mounted retinas were re embedded for cryostat sections. Retinas were placed in 4 PFA overnight followed by incubation with 20 sucrose. The retinas were embedded in optimal cutting temperature compound OCT Tissue Tek Sakura FineTech Torrance Calif. . Cryostat sections 10 m were re hydrated in PBS containing the nuclear dye DAPI Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . DAPI labeled nuclear images of three different areas 280 m width unbiased sampling in a single section that contained optic nerve head and the entire peripheral retina were taken by confocal microscope. The numbers of the nuclei located in ONL of the three independent fields in one section were counted and summed up for analysis. Simple linear regression analysis was performed to examine the relationship between the length of vasculature in the deep plexus and the number of cell nuclei in the ONL.

Following overnight dark adaptation mice were anesthetized by intraperitoneal injection of 15 g gm ketamine and 7 g gm xylazine. Electroretinograms ERGs were recorded from the corneal surface of each eye after pupil dilation 1 atropine sulfate using a gold loop corneal electrode together with a mouth reference and tail ground electrode. Stimuli were produced with a Grass Photic Stimulator PS33 Plus Grass Instruments Quincy Mass. affixed to the outside of a highly reflective Ganzfeld dome. Rod responses were recorded to short wavelength Wratten 47A max 470 nm flashes of light over a range of intensities up to the maximum allowable by the photic stimulator 0.668 cd s m . Response signals were amplified CP511 AC amplifier Grass Instruments digitized PCI 1200 National Instruments Austin Tex. and computer analyzed. Each mouse served as its own internal control with ERGs recorded from both the treated and untreated eyes. Up to 100 sweeps were averaged for the weakest signals. The averaged responses from the untreated eye were digitally subtracted from the responses from the treated eye and this difference in signal was used to index functional rescue.

Microarray analysis was used for evaluation of Lin HSC targeted retinal gene expression. P6 rd rd mice were injected with either Lin or CD31 HSCs. The retinas of these mice were dissected 40 days post injection in RNase free medium rescue of the retinal vasculature and the photoreceptor layer is obvious at this time point after injection . One quadrant from each retina was analyzed by whole mount to ensure that normal HSC targeting as well as vasculature and neural protection had been achieved. RNA from retinas with successful injections was purified using a TRIzol Life Technologies Rockville Md. phenol chloroform RNA isolation protocol. RNA was hybridized to Affymetrix Mu74Av2 chips and gene expression was analyzed using GENESPRING software SiliconGenetics Redwood City Calif. . Purified human or mouse HSCs were injected intravitreally into P6 mice. At P45 the retinas were dissected and pooled into fractions of 1 human HSC injected rescued mouse retinas 2 human HSC injected non rescued mouse retinas and 3 mouse HSC injected rescued mouse retinas for purification of RNA and hybridization to human specific U133A Affymetrix chips. GENESPRING software was used to identify genes that were expressed above background and with higher expression in the human HSC rescued retinas. The probe pair expression profiles for each of these genes were then individually analyzed and compared to a model of normal human U133A microarray experiments using dChip to determine human species specific hybridization and to eliminate false positives due to cross species hybridization.

When the CD133 positive and CD133 negative Lin HSC sub population was intravitreally injected into the eyes of neonatal SCID mice the greatest extent of incorporation into the developing vasculature was observed for the CD133 negative sub population which expresses both CD31 and integrin 6 surface antigens see bottom . The CD133 positive sub population which does not express CD31 or integrin 6 top appears to target sites of peripheral ischemia driven neovascularization but not when injected into eyes undergoing angiogenesis.

Rescued and non rescued retinas were analyzed immunohistochemically with antibodies specific for rod or cone opsin. The same eyes used for the ERG recordings presented in were analyzed for rod or cone opsin. In wild type mouse retinas less than 5 of photoreceptors present are cones Soucy et al. 1998 21 481 493 and the immunohistochemical staining patterns observed with red green cone opsin as shown in or rod rhodopsin as shown in were consistent with this percentage of cone cells. Antibodies specific for rod rhodopsin rho4D2 were provided by Dr. Robert Molday of the University of British Columbia and used as described previously Hicks et al. 1986 42 55 71 . Rabbit antibodies specific for cone red green opsin were purchased from Chemicon AB5405 and used according to the manufacturer s instructions.

New born wild type C57B16 mice were exposed to hyperoxia 75 oxygen between postnatal days P7 to P12 in an oxygen induced retinal degeneration OIR model. illustrates normal postnatal vascular development in C57B16 mice from P0 to P30. At P0 only budding superficial vessels can be observed around the optic disc. Over the next few days the primary superficial network extends toward the periphery reaching the far periphery by day P10. Between P7 and P12 the secondary deep plexus develops. By P17 an extensive superficial and deep network of vessels is present insets . In the ensuing days remodeling occurs along with development of the tertiary intermediate layer of vessels until the adult structure is reached approximately at P21.

In contrast in the OIR model described herein following exposure to 75 oxygen at P7 P12 the normal sequence of events is severely disrupted . Adult murine Lin HSC populations of the invention were intravitreally injected at P3 in an eye of a mouse that was subsequently subjected to OIR the other eye was injected with PBS or CD31 negative cells as a control. illustrates that the Lin HSC populations can reverse the degenerative effects of high oxygen levels in the developing mouse retina. Fully developed superficial and deep retinal vasculature was observed at P17 in the treated eyes whereas the control eyes showed large avascular areas with virtually no deep vessels . Approximately 100 eyes of mice in the OIR model were observed. Normal vascularization was observed in 58 of the eyes treated with the Lin HSC populations compared to 12 of the control eyes treated with CD31 cells and 3 of the control eyes treated with PBS.

Bone marrow cells were extracted from adult mice The Jackson Laboratory Me. . The whole bone marrow was treated with a murine CD44 antibody and flow cytometry was used to isolate CD44 expressing cells from the bone marrow. The cells were separated from the antibody and stored in a buffer solution for future use. A population of cells that do not significantly express CD44 was also isolated CD44BM .

Bone marrow cells were also positively selected using an antibody to CD11b in place of CD44 as described in Example 11. A myeloid like bone marrow cell population that was CD44and CD11b was isolated which had similar activity characteristics to the CD44population isolated in Example 11 using CD44. A CD44CD11b population was also isolated which was found to be inactive.

Although the role of CD44 in this context is not clear it is possible that this receptor mediates cell survival cell migration and or cell differentiation in the hyaluronic acid rich vitreous following injection of cells into the eye. Distinct populations of CD44 i.e. MLBM and CD44cells were present in unfractionated mouse bone marrow. The MLBM cell population represents 76 of the Lin population used in previous examples whereas only about 37 and 4 respectively of Lin and CD31 CD34 CD11b cell populations from bone marrow expressed CD44 . Accordingly there is an excellent correlation between CD44 expression and the vasculotrophic and neurotrophic activities observed in these three populations i.e. Lin cells were the most effective while CD31 CD34 CD11b cells were consistently the least effective. Using a panel of lineage specific antibodies the majority of CD44cells were determined to have strongly myeloid characteristics . Similarly nearly all of the CD44bone marrow cells are also CD11b .

MLBM positively selected using CD11b antibody in Example 12 CD44CD11b gave activity results similar to those obtained with MLBM isolated using CD44 antibody selection in the vascular targeting experiments.

The cell surface antigen characteristics of the MLBM cell population of Example 12 and of the CD44CD11b cells isolated in Example 12 are shown in Table 3 below. In Table 3 a greater number of plus signs indicates relatively higher expression of the antigen. A minus sign indicates no expression detected.

The MLBM cell population of Example 11 retained the properties of Lin cells in terms of vascular targeting and vasculo and neurotrophic effects while CD44BM cells showed little or no activity. Vascular targeting activity was demonstrated by injecting cells from a GFP MLBM cell population intravitreally into postnatal day 7 P7 mice and analyzing retinas at P14. After labeling blood vessels with GS isolectin GFP cells were observed to target the retinal vasculature and assume a perivascular localization without evidence of incorporation. These events were common when using MLBM but infrequent or absent in eyes treated with CD44BM .

Vasculo and neurotrophic activity of the MLBM cell population of Example 11 was evaluated using a mouse model of retinal degeneration as described above for Lin HSC. The rd1 rd1 mouse shows characteristic features of retinal degenerative disease including photoreceptor death and atrophy of the deep retinal vasculature. As described above Lin HSC bone marrow cells preserved the deep retinal vasculature and partially rescued photoreceptors. The MLBM cell population of the present invention performs the same function .

The oxygen induced retinopathy model shares features with retinopathy of prematurity. The pathology associated with this model is significantly reduced when eyes are treated with cells from the MLBM cell population. The effects of cells from the MLBM cell population in this model were similar to those observed using Lin HSCs described above. Eyes treated with cells from the MLBM cell population showed significant reduction in the two parameters used to quantify the degree of pathology in this model vascular obliteration area and neovascular tuft area. In contrast eyes treated with CD44BM cells showed no improvement over eyes treated with vehicle controls .

In addition to targeting retinal vasculature cells from the MLBM cell population differentiate into macrophage like F4 80 cells penetrate the retina and take a position closely opposed to the retinal pigment epithelium RPE . This localization facilitates the observed vascular and photoreceptor rescue effects of the cells from the MLBM cell population. Furthermore once in place near the RPE the cells from the MLBM cell population produce vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF as demonstrated by injection of cells from a MLBM cell population derived from a VEGF GFP mouse in which green fluorescent protein GFP is expressed upon VEGF gene activation . Thus the cells from the MLBM cell population appear to be in a VEGF activated state. The introduced cells from the MLBM cell population appear to recruit endogenous cells of the same type since both GFP introduced and GFP endogenous cells were observed in the RPE region. This localization has been observed in wild type mice during normal retinal vascular development in rescued retinas in the rd1 rd1 mouse and in the oxygen induced retinopathy model.

Similar vascular targeting results were found for the MLBM cell population of Example 12. shows that by P20 CD44CD11b cells of Example 12 green specifically targeted the vasculature red when injected at P2 in a manner similar to the CD44 high population of Example 11. shows that the CD44CD11b of Example 12 did not specifically target the vasculature.

The MLBM cell population of the present invention provide an effective and versatile treatment for ocular diseases. The cells are readily isolated from autologous bone marrow thus minimizing potential immunogenicity often observed in cell based therapies. In addition the MLBM cell population of the invention can be transfected with useful genes for delivering functional genes to the retina.

As described in the previous examples all experiments were performed in accordance with the NIH Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals and all experimental procedures were approved by the TSRI Animal Care and Use Committee. OIR was induced in C57B16 mice according to the protocol described above. Post natal day 7 pups and their mothers were transferred from room air to an environment of 75 oxygen for 5 days and afterwards returned to room air. Oxygen levels were monitored using an FDA approved oxygen analyzer AX 300 Teledyne Analytical Instruments CA USA . Under these conditions large hypovascular areas are formed in the central retina during hyperoxia and abnormal pre retinal neovascularization occurs after return to normoxia peaking at around P17 and ultimately resolving Panels g i Panels a c .

Cell Preparation Mouse bone marrow cell extraction was performed substantially as follows Bone marrow cells were harvested from femurs and tibia of actGFP mice and were processed using two different methods. In the first method mononuclear cells were separated by density gradient using FICO LITE LM Atlanta Biologicals Norcross Ga. and labeled with biotin conjugated lineage antibodies CD45R B220 CD3e Ly 6G C CD11b TER119 Pharmingen San Diego Calif. . This was followed by incubation with strepavidin or anti biotin magnetic beads and sorting using the MACS cell sorting system Miltenyi Biotech Auburn Calif. to obtain Lin HSC populations. In the second method whole bone marrow was incubated with an antibody directed against CD44 which was conjugated to a fluorescent label. Fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS was then used to isolate CD44cells i.e. an MLBM cell population cell population in which as majority of the cells express CD44 and CD44cells i.e. a cell population in which as minority of the cells express CD44 .

Bone Marrow Cell Characterization Further analysis of the cell subpopulations obtained by the above methods was performed using two procedures 1 two color flow cytometry in combination with antibodies against various lineage and progenitor cell surface markers including CD11a CD11b Ly6G C CD43 F4 80 CD14 cKit CD34 6 integrin and CD115 all from Pharmingen San Diego Calif. and 2 gene expression analysis using AFFYMETRIX Mu430 Chips Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. using standard methods known in the art. Gene expression was analyzed using GENESPRING software Agilent Technologies Palo Alto Calif. .

Intravitreal injection An eyelid fissure was created by gentle dissection to expose the globe in P2 P7 pre hyperoxia mice. In one eye of each animal about 150 000 to 250 000 bone marrow derived cells in 0.5 l vehicle PBS containing 0.5 BSA and 2 mM EDTA were injected into the vitreous using a Hamilton syringe and a 33 gauge needle Hamilton Reno Nev. . In the contra lateral control eye an approximately equal number of control cells or vehicle alone was injected and in some cases no injection was performed at all to observe the natural course of disease. In subsets of experiments cell transplantation was performed at later ages between P9 and P12.

Staining of retinal vasculature Retinas were harvested at P17 for imaging of the vasculature and to localize and characterize the injected cells. In some cases animals were anesthetized and intra cardiac flourescein labeled high molecular weight dextran FITC Dextran Sigma was injected prior to dissection of the retinas to visualize patent vessels. In other cases immunohistological techniques to stain blood vessels and GFP expressing cells were used. The retinas were fixed in 4 perfluoroacetic acid PFA and methanol followed by blocking in 20 FBS 20 NGS for one hour at room temperature. This was followed by overnight incubation with isolectin GS IB4 conjugated to ALEXA 594 to identify vessels Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. . Retinas were laid flat with radial relaxing incisions to obtain whole mount preparations or embedded in OCT and cryo sectioned to obtain cross sections of the retina which are counter stained with DAPI prior to mounting.

In order to characterize the transplanted cells immunohistological techniques were used to identify the following cellular markers in subsets of eyes F4 80 Caltag Burlingame Calif. CD44 CD31 Pharmingen San Diego Calif. and NG2 Chemicon Temecula Calif. . All retinas were triple stained with lectin anti GFP and one of the above described markers.

Imaging and Image Analysis Images of the retinal vasculature were obtained using a RADIANCE 2100MP laser scanning confocal microscope Biorad Hercules Calif. . Quantification of vaso obliteration and neovascularization was carried out as follows The area of vascular obliteration was measured by carefully outlining the avascular zones in the central retina of GS lectin stained retinas and calculating the total area using PHOTOSHOP Adobe or VOLOCITY software Improvision Lexington Mass. . Similarly the area of pre retinal neovascularization tufts was calculated by using confocal images focused at the pre retinal plane and selecting tufts based on pixel intensities tufts label more brightly that normal vasculature . Selected regions were then summed to generate total area of neovascularization. A T test was used to statistically compare the different experimental groups.

Three dimensional images of retinal vasculature and perivascular bone marrow cells were generated by collecting a z series of confocal images and rendering them into volumes using VOLOCITY software. It was then possible to view retinal vessels in cross section and determine the position of transplanted bone marrow cells relative to the vascular lumen

Retinal vascular development and the mouse model of oxygen induced retinopathy. Normal retinal vascular development in post natal mice grown under normoxic conditions is shown in Panels a f. At post natal day 2 P2 only budding superficial vessels are observed occupying a single plane around the optic disc Panels a b . Over the course of the next week the primary superficial network extends towards the periphery reaching the far periphery at approximately P12 Panel c . Between P7 P12 the secondary deep plexus develops Panel d . By the end of the first month remodeling occurs in the fully vascularized retina Panel e along with development of the tertiary intermediate layer of vessels and the adult structure is reached Panel f .

In contrast in the OIR model exposure to 75 oxygen from P7 P12 severely disrupts the normal sequence of events marked regression of the superficial network of vessels that have already formed in the central retina occurs especially along the arteries Panel g P10 and Panels h i P17 and development of the deep plexus is severely delayed Panels k m retinal cross sections at P17 . Vascular growth in an abnormal fashion commences again only after returning to normoxic conditions at P12. In essence these are now relatively hypoxic conditions for the severely hypovascular retina. At P17 some deep vessels can be identified in the periphery but abnormal pre retinal neovascular tufts associated with leak of intravascular dye can be seen in the mid periphery at the border between the hypovascular central retina and the more vascularized periphery Panel h . Over the ensuing days the superficial and deep vessels slowly develop in the avascular areas but neovascular tufts protruding above the inner limiting membrane ILM of the retina into the vitreous often persist until P21 or even later. By P25 P30 the retinal vasculature has remodeled and resembles the normal vasculature at this time.

Injection of hematopoietic progenitor cells prior to hyperoxia promotes vascular repair in the retina following oxygen induced vaso obliteration. Injection of LinHSCs of the invention at P2 P7 dramatically changed the ability of the retinal vasculature to recover following hyperoxic exposure Panels j l n o and Panels b d e f g . Injection of vehicle alone did not induce such changes. In over 50 of cases fully developed superficial and deep retinal vasculature was seen in Lin HSC injected eyes at P17 while contra lateral vehicle injected eyes show large avascular areas and practically no deep vessels Panels l n compared to Panels h i k m and to Panel o . In some cases especially when the injury in the contra lateral control eye was very severe recovery was not complete by P17 in the Lin cell injected eye but was significantly better in the large majority of cases. This comparison between fellow eyes in the same animal provides further support for the efficacy of the Lin HSCs effectively equalizing most other genetic and environmental factors.

Vascular obliteration has been an underappreciated feature in this model since most studies have only analyzed pre retinal neovascular tuft formation in serial retinal sections. Vascular obliteration and tuft formation can be evaluated in the same retina using confocal microscopy and digital image analysis see e.g. Panels a d . P17 was selected as the main time point for analysis because tuft formation is often maximal at this time while significant vascular obliteration is still present in control eyes. Using the novel method of combined analysis substantial differences between treated and control eyes were identified. Vascular obliteration measured at P17 was significantly reduced over 75 reduction in obliterated area in Lin treated retinas compared to eyes receiving vehicle alone or no injection Panel e . No significant difference was observed between vehicle injection and no injection in this regard. Similarly eyes treated with Lin cells had an approximately 70 reduction in neovascular tuft area compared to vehicle injected eyes and greater than 80 reduction versus non injected controls Panel f . Thus treatment of eyes with Lin HSCs had a dramatic effect on the two major vascular injury and repair parameters of the mouse OIR model i.e. simultaneously reducing formation of neovascular tufts while accelerating physiologic inner retina revascularization.

Accelerated repair was also observed when treatment was performed during hyperoxia and upon return to normoxia but the effect was reduced. The experiments described thus far involved injections performed on days P2 P7 prior to exposure to hyperoxia. To determine whether Lin cells could also affect vascular repair if injected later during the hyperoxia phase of the cycle and upon return to normoxia injections were performed at P9 P11 or P12 and retinas were evaluated at various later time points. The results are shown in Panel g and demonstrate that injection of Lin HSCs was effective at accelerating vascular repair and reducing the area of obliteration even when administered during hyperoxia and at P12. The effect however appeared to be somewhat attenuated indicating that maximal efficacy is achieved when treatment is performed prior to high oxygen exposure.

Following treatment with Lin hematopoietic progenitor cells long term retinal structure and function were well preserved. The long term effects and possible side effects of treatment with Lin HSCs were also studied. To this end 12 retinas were taken from mice at 3 6 months of age that had undergone Lin cell injection and exposure to hyperoxia according to the established model . No tumors were observed and the neural retina appeared to be preserved histologically in all cases. The only notable abnormality was an occasional rosette formation within the retina a finding also present in control eyes Panels g h . The retinal vasculature from Lin HSC injected eyes had a normal appearance and no obvious differences from non injected control retinas were found Panels a f .

Long term persistence of the transplanted cells was also studied. GFP cells were observed in only a small percentage of eyes 10 indicating that the majority of injected cells did not survive beyond several months. When present surviving cells were often located in close proximity to the retinal vasculature. Retinal function as measured by electroretinographic recordings performed at 17days to 6 months post transplantation showed no difference between Lin HSC transplanted eyes and normal non OIR age matched controls. To examine the possibility that transplanted cells may exit the eye and disseminate systemically spleens and or livers from 15 mice were analyzed for the presence of GFP cells about 7 to 10 days after injection. No extra ocular cells were observed.

Verifying the active cell type The Lin population is enriched for CD44cells. In an effort to better understand the mechanisms that may be active during these processes and to simplify the cell selection procedure an attempt was made to identify a single marker that could be used to isolate active HSCs from the bone marrow. Based on characteristics such as involvement in cell migration and differentiation a large panel of candidate bone marrow progenitor markers was assembled. Using flow cytometry these markers were screened comparing their expression in the active Lin cells versus that in control BM cells that were previously shown to be inactive in a number of experimental systems. CD44 proved to be differentially expressed in these two populations CD44cells were present in a significantly higher proportion of the Lin cells 76 than in the control BM cell population 4 Panel a . As noted above CD44 is a cell surface receptor for hyaluronic acid and has been shown to participate in the regulation of several cellular functions that are believed to be important in mediating the rescue effect including survival migration and differentiation. The distribution of CD44cells being highly prevalent in the active cell population and quite rare in the control cells with reduced activity indicated that CD44 is indeed an effective indicator of activity.

For example CD44cells promote vascular repair in the OIR model while CD44cells do not. The efficacy of CD44cells was verified in the OIR model for their ability to facilitate vascular repair. Using the same experimental design as that described for Lin cell injections CD44cells were demonstrated to promote retinal vascular repair in this model with efficacy similar to that observed with Lin cells Panels b c . In contrast CD44lo cells had no positive effect on repair. It is of value to point out that often few or no injected cells were observed within the retinas of CD44 treated animals suggesting that these cells have reduced ability to survive in the vitreous and or migrate into the retina. It is not known whether the CD44cells are the only active bone marrow sub population or one of others that have this activity.

CD44cells express genes and markers suggestive of myeloid origin. Further characterization of the CD44population was performed by large scale expression analysis and by antibody labeling of Lin and progenitor specific markers followed by flow cytometry and . Both methods revealed that CD44cells have an expression profile suggestive of myeloid origin. Strong expression of CD11a CD11b and Ly6G C was observed on these cells at the protein level while less intense positive labeling was detected for F4 80 CD14 cKit and CD115 by flow cytometry. Several myeloid specific genes including CD204 CD114 CD33 and CD115 were highly expressed on expression analysis as compared with CD44lo cells . In contrast at the protein level the CD44population had significant expression of Ter119 and CD45R B220 which are markers of erythroblasts erythrocytes and B cells respectively. On the expression array a number of genes associated with lymphocytes were highly expressed in CD44as compared with CD44cells including CD19 CD79a and CD22 . Thus analysis at the transcriptional and protein levels identifies the active CD44population as primarily myeloid in origin while the inactive CD44cells are largely lymphoid.

Analysis of transplanted cells in situ evidence for differentiation Having more clearly defined the population of active cells from the bone marrow the fate of these cells after introduction into the eye was investigated. To this end CD44 injected retinas from the OIR model were analyzed by immunohistochemistry with various markers. The vast majority of introduced cells selectively targeted the retinal vasculature and assumed a perivascular localization often forming elongated structures tightly associated with host vessels Panel a . Using antibodies against CD31 and NG2 these markers were not detected on the GFP expressing perivascular bone marrow cells suggesting that these cells are not differentiating into endothelial cells or pericytes respectively. In addition the transplanted cells did not appear to form any portion of the vessel lumen Panel b thus demonstrating that these cells are unlikely to be differentiating into endothelial cells. In contrast the macrophage microglia marker F4 80 labeled many but not all perivascular GFP cells in CD44 treated eyes Panels d i . These introduced F4 80 cells had an appearance very similar to endogenous perivascular cells which also labeled with F4 80 Panels a c suggesting that the transplanted cells were assuming an identity similar to native cells in the OIR model.

One of the possible advantages of cell therapy particularly in comparison to conventional pharmaceutical treatment is the potential of the cells to respond to local cues and undergo modification in changing environments. Transplanted cells at P17 10 days after injection that had targeted the retinal vasculature and assumed a perivascular location were observed to have down regulated CD44 to undetectable levels Panels j o . Cells that were not associated with the vasculature retained expression of CD44 however. Thus sub populations of implanted cells that were originally selected by FACS on the basis of high CD44 expression down regulated this receptor in vivo which correlated with the location of the cells in the retina. This suggests that the introduced cells do indeed undergo selective changes differentiation within the environment of the eye.

The results detailed above indicate that cell based therapy can be used to treat ROP and other ischemic retinopathies. The results observed in the mouse model indicate that this approach is efficacious in reducing the vascular pathology associated with high oxygen exposure and shows little or no toxicity. The advantage of using cell therapy as opposed to single factor therapy may lie in the ability of the cell to adapt and respond to a changing environment. The evolution from single factor therapeutics to combinations of drugs and interventions to the selection and delivery of sophisticated adaptable cells that can orchestrate and conduct a complicated sequence of responses while interacting with the host tissue is an exciting new concept. In this respect the present invention provides a paradigm shift in the approach to ischemic retinopathies vasculopathies i.e. emphasizing healing and stabilization instead of inhibition and obliteration.

The isolated MLBM cell populations of the invention target the retinal vasculature can be used to deliver angiostatic agents and have vasculo and neurotrophic effects in models of retinal degeneration. In the present study specific subpopulations of Lin isolated MLBM cell populations are highly effective in accelerating the repair of OIR. Interestingly the active cells express markers that suggest that they are of myeloid origin and perhaps undergo differentiation and modification following transplantation.

The use of cell therapy to promote vascularization has been spearheaded by the field of cardiology with the goal of collateralizing infarcted arteries. A substantial amount of evidence indicates that certain bone marrow cells are effective at improving perfusion and cardiac function. It is not yet clear however which cell type s are responsible for the observed effects. Numerous studies investigating the potential role of bone marrow derived endothelial progenitor cells EPCs have concluded that these cells are present in new or collateral vessels but the small number of incorporated cells reported in some of these studies raises questions regarding their importance. Additionally heterogeneous bone marrow populations such as mononuclear cells or unfractionated cells which contain very small numbers of stem cells and or EPCs can also significantly enhance collateral development suggesting other mechanisms beyond direct incorporation into vessels are at work. While not intending to be bound by theory it is possible that these cells play a supportive paracrine role by which factors secreted from them act to optimize the conditions for the host vasculature. Many bone marrow subpopulations have been shown to be a source of angiogenic factors and monocytic cells are known to secrete a variety of such factors. Thus the potential exists for bone marrow cells to serve in a paracrine fashion complementing the role of EPCs in collateral vessel formation and interacting with the host immune system.

Although the precise mechanisms at work in this system are not yet clear significant progress has been made in terms of understanding the nature of the functional bone marrow cells. With the identification of an active myeloid population within bone marrow as provided by the cells of the present invention some suggestions regarding mechanism can be made. Myeloid cells notably monocytes and macrophages have established abilities to influence blood vessel growth through secretion of angiogenic growth factors. In addition macrophages have been shown to be more tolerant of hypoxia than other cells types and respond to low oxygen conditions by secretion of angiogenic factors. Thus introducing myeloid progenitors into ischemic retinas could provide a cell that can withstand hypoxic conditions and can promote vascular repair in a paracrine manner. The presence of host derived F4 80 perivascular cells in the OIR retina suggests that this type of cell has a role in the process and perhaps the delivery of a large pool of similar cells or their progenitors by direct transplantation into the eye augments this effect. This scenario highlights the paradoxical observation that as observed in the present studies injection of cell populations of the present invention promotes revascularization of the retina while suppressing pre retinal neovascularization. Although the basis for this is not yet fully known it is possible that accelerated physiologic revascularization may reduce the hypoxia experienced by the retina such that ischemia stimulated neovascular tufts do not form to the same degree.

The idea of myeloid like cell support of vessel growth may have relevance to some earlier work relating to the rd1 and rd10 mouse models of retinal degeneration. Injected myeloid progenitors could act to maintain the deep retinal vasculature through secreted factors and prevent the vessel degeneration that is observed in these models. Some macrophage secreted angiogenic factors such as bFGF have demonstrated neurotrophic activity as well. Thus the observed reduced photoreceptor death upon injection of the cell populations of the present invention in rd mice could be mediated though a paracrine mechanism in which neurotrophic factors are produced by the transplanted bone marrow derived myeloid cells. In support of this mechanism the present studies indicate that THE isolated MLBM cell populations of the invention are capable of vascular and neuronal rescue in the rd model with efficacy similar to that observed upon injection of isolated MLBM cells.

In a clinical treatment for ROP fetal cord blood cells are harvested during the birth of a high risk premature infant the cells are then sorted to enrich for the specific subpopulation which mediates the rescue effect and these autologous progenitor cells can then be injected into the eye of the infant.

One of the main current limitations for the use of cell therapy is the fact that in many cases the exact molecular mechanisms of action are not yet clear and in fact these mechanisms may differ between models. However this may actually be the greatest advantage of cell based therapies i.e. the ability to respond in a different way and with a wide repertoire to changing conditions and cues. This is true not only between different experimental systems and challenges but also temporally within one system. In other words such cells may be secreting certain factors at one time point and different factors at another and ultimately if the need for them subsides may cease acting altogether. This is something that current chemical based drug therapies cannot do and is based on the fact that cells fundamentally use and respond to feedback. The modification of cellular markers in the transplanted cells in vivo observed in the present study supports this concept.

Analysis of retinas following injection of CD44cells indicates that the CD44population of bone marrow cells are differentiating into microglia after injection into the eye. Microglia are the resident myeloid population in the retina and express characteristic markers including CD11b and F4 80. These cells are also distinguished by their ramified branched morphology and assume perivascular localization. The localization morphology and surface marker expression of CD44hi cells at various points after injection into eyes has been analyzed. It is observed that injected CD44GFP cells display all of the described characteristics of endogenous retinal microglia . Panels A and B in show that injected CD44cells express CD11b and F4 80 and have morphology and perivascular localization similar to endogenous microglia. Panel C provides 3D imaging analysis that demonstrates that injected CD44cells localize in the perivascular region. Panel D shows a high magnification view of the morphology of injected CD44cells.

It is desirable for the purposes of experimentation and clinical applications to inject cells that are free of surface bound selection agents such as antibodies and or magnetic beads. One way of achieving this goal is to utilize a negative selection strategy to isolate CD44cells. Through characterization of the surface marker expression profiles of the CD44and CD44cell populations described herein it has been discovered that CD44cells displayed high expression of Ter119 and CD45RB220 markers of erythroid cells and B cells respectively. Antibodies against these markers with the addition of the T cell marker CD3e efficiently labeled the CD44population and allowed for their removal via magnetic or FACS separation leaving untouched CD44cells as the product. Cells separated by FACS using this strategy show the typical functional characteristics of the MLBM cell populations of the present invention .

Numerous variations and modifications of the embodiments described above may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel features of the invention. No limitations with respect to the specific embodiments illustrated herein are intended or should be inferred.

