---

title: Electronic program guide using markup language
abstract: An interactive television program guide is provided. Program guide display elements are arranged and styled using markup language documents. These markup language documents may also indicate and select program guide functions. The program guide interprets the markup language documents and generates the display screens and program guide functionality without user intervention. The program guide may also be updated by supplying new markup language documents that modify display screens and program guide functionality. The markup language documents may be supplied by a main facility or a television distribution facility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08010979&OS=08010979&RS=08010979
owner: United Video Properties, Inc.
number: 08010979
owner_city: Tulsa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060510
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 171 424 filed Jun. 12 2002 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 227 358 filed Jan. 8 1999 which is a nonprovisional of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 091 975 filed Jul. 7 1998.

This invention relates to video systems and more particularly to interactive television program guide systems which provide for the flexible modification of program guide user screen layouts and program guide functionality.

Cable satellite and broadcast television systems provide viewers with a large number of television channels. Users have traditionally consulted printed television program schedules to determine the programs being broadcast at a particular time. More recently interactive electronic television program guides have been developed that allow television program information to be displayed on a user s television.

Interactive program guides allow the user to navigate through television program listings using a remote control. In a typical program guide display television listings are organized and displayed in subsets according to multiple selection criteria and are sorted in various ways. For example one approach is to organize program listings into a grid.

With current interactive program guides user screens e.g. screens containing program listings and program guide functionality are fixed. It is generally not possible to change user screens or program guide functionality without downloading an entire new program guide application.

Accordingly it would be desirable if a markup language could be used to provide for downloading display characteristics of user screens and program guide functionality as plug ins anytime without modifying the code of the application.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an interactive television program guide that arranges program guide display elements using a markup language.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide an interactive television program guide that indicates and selects program guide functionality using a markup language.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide an interactive television program guide that may be updated by downloading markup language documents without user intervention.

This and other objects of the invention are accomplished in accordance with the principles of the present invention by providing an interactive program guide system that has program guide display screen look and functionality assigned or updated using markup language documents.

Program guide data is provided by a data source in a satellite uplink facility. This information is transmitted to a television distribution facility such as a cable headend via a satellite link. The television distribution facility distributes the information and television programming signals to user television equipment on which an interactive television program guide is implemented. One suitable distribution scheme involves transmitting television channels and distributing the information for program listings in the vertical blanking interval of one of the channels or in a sideband. Alternatively the information for program listings may be provided on a television channel sideband using an in band digital channel using an out of band digital signal or by any other suitable data transmission technique.

The user television equipment for receiving and processing the television program listings and program listings information may include a set top box. The set top box is also able to receive the television programming distributed by the television distribution facility. The program guide implemented on the set top box processes television program listings information and generates display screens e.g. an interactive television program guide grid for display e.g. on a standard television monitor.

Program guide display elements may have a set of associated attributes. Display element attributes may include display element style and layout information e.g. font size font type color screen coordinates etc. actions associated with the display element or any other suitable attribute. Display element actions may be indicated and selected using the markup language documents. The markup language used may be any suitable markup language or system of marking up or tagging a document e.g. text file so that the document indicates user display screen layout and styling and program guide functionality. For example the markup language document may contain HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HyperText Markup language DHTML or Extensible Markup Language XML code. The program guide is programmed to interpret the markup language documents and generate the display screens and provide program guide functionality according to the documents.

The use of a markup language provides an interactive television program guide in which display screens may be modified by downloading markup language documents without user intervention and without modifying the code of the application. Application functionality may be modified by attaching documents to the different modules in the same manner. The use of a markup language also allows a control entity to control some of the appearance and functionality of the guide and to create enhanced features and promotions based on designing a screen layout with off the shelf markup language editors and or viewers.

Further features of the invention its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

An illustrative system in accordance with the present invention is shown in . Main facility provides data from program guide data source to television distribution facility via communications link . There are preferably numerous television distribution facilities although only one such facility is shown in to avoid overcomplicating the drawing. Link may be a satellite link a telephone network link a cable or fiber optic link a microwave link a combination such links or any other suitable communications path. If it is desired to transmit video signals over link in addition to data signals a relatively high bandwidth link such as a satellite link may generally be preferred to a relatively low bandwidth link such as a telephone line. Television distribution facility may be any appropriate distribution facility such as a cable system headend a broadcast distribution facility or a satellite television distribution facility.

The program guide data transmitted by main facility to television distribution facility includes television program listings data e.g. program times channels titles and descriptions and other program listings information for additional services other than television program listings e.g. weather information associated Internet web links computer software etc. . It may also contain markup language documents such as HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HyperText Markup Language DHTML or Extensible Markup Language XML documents for updating the display screen layouts and functionality of a program guide without user intervention.

The markup language documents may include the code of any suitable markup language or system of marking up or tagging a document e.g. text file so that the document arranges user display screen layout and styling and indicates program guide functionality. For example the markup language document may contain HTML DHTML or XML code. The program guide is programmed to interpret the markup language documents and generate the display screens and provide program guide functionality according to the documents.

Television distribution facility distributes the television program listings additional data and markup language documents to multiple users via communications paths . Each user has user television equipment for displaying the television program listings information using an interactive television program guide. Communication paths preferably have sufficient bandwidth to allow television distribution facility to distribute television programming to user television equipment . If desired television programming may be provided over separate communications paths not shown .

Program guide data may be distributed to user television equipment using any suitable scheme. For example program guide data may be provided in a continuous stream or may be transmitted at a suitable time interval e.g. once per hour . If transmitted continuously it may not be necessary to store the data locally at user television equipment . Rather user television equipment may extract data on the fly as it is needed. If desired television distribution facility may poll user equipment periodically for certain information e.g. pay program account information or information regarding programs that have been purchased and viewed using locally generated authorization techniques .

For clarity the present invention will be illustrated in connection with a system arrangement in which program guide data is distributed from a main facility to an interactive television program guide implemented on user television equipment via a television distribution facility. Other suitable systems involve systems in which data is distributed to a program guide on user television equipment using other suitable distribution schemes such as schemes involving data transmission over the Internet or the like. If desired the interactive television program guide application may be implemented using a client server architecture in which the primary processing power for the application is provided by a server located at for example the television distribution facility or the main facility and user television equipment acts as a client processor.

An illustrative arrangement for user television equipment is shown in . User television equipment of receives video and data from television distribution facility at input . During normal television viewing the user tunes set top box to a desired television channel. The signal for that television channel is then provided at video output . The outputted signal is typically either a radio frequency RF signal on a predefined channel e.g. channel 3 or 4 or a demodulated video signal but may also be a digital signal provided to television on an appropriate digital bus e.g. a bus using the IEEE 1394 standard not shown . The video signal at output is received by optional secondary storage device .

Optional secondary storage device can be any suitable type of analog or digital program storage device e.g. a videocassette recorder a digital video disc DVD player with the ability to record DVD discs etc. . Program recording and other features may be controlled by set top box using control path . If secondary storage device is a videocassette recorder for example a typical control path involves the use of an infrared transmitter coupled to the infrared receiver in the videocassette recorder that normally accepts commands from a remote control such as remote control . Remote control may be used to control set top box secondary storage device and television .

The interactive television program guide may run on set top box on television if television has suitable processing circuitry and memory or on a suitable analog or digital receiver connected to television . The interactive television program guide may also run cooperatively on both television and set top box . Interactive television application systems in which a cooperative interactive television program guide application runs on multiple devices are described for example in Ellis U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 186 598 filed Nov. 5 1998 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The user may record programs and program data in digital form on optional digital storage device . Digital storage device may be a writable optical storage device such as a DVD player capable of handling recordable DVD discs a magnetic storage device such as a disk drive or digital tape or any other digital storage device. Interactive television program guide systems that have digital storage devices are described for example in Hassell et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 157 256 filed Sep. 17 1998 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Digital storage device can be contained in set top box or it can be an external device connected to set top box via an output port and appropriate interface. If necessary processing circuitry in set top box formats the received video audio and data signals into a digital file format. Preferably the file format is an open file format such as the Motion Pictures Expert Group MPEG MPEG 2 standard. The resulting data is streamed to digital storage device via an appropriate bus e.g. a bus using the IEEE 1394 standard and is stored on digital storage device .

Television receives video signals from secondary storage device via communications path . The video signals on communications path may either be generated by secondary storage device when playing back a prerecorded storage medium e.g. a videocassette or a recordable digital video disc by digital storage device when playing back a pre recorded digital medium may be passed through from set top box may be provided directly to television from set top box if secondary storage device is not included in user television equipment or may be received directly by television . During normal television viewing the video signals provided to television correspond to the desired channel to which the user has tuned with set top box . The video signals provided to television may also be provided by set top box when set top box is used to play back information stored on digital storage device .

A more generalized embodiment of user television equipment is shown in . As shown in control circuitry of user television equipment receives the program guide data programming and markup language documents from television distribution facility . Video signals are typically provided on multiple television channels. The program guide data and markup language documents may be provided on a television channel sideband in the vertical blanking interval of a television channel using an in band digital channel using an out of band digital signal or by any other suitable data transmission technique.

Control circuitry may be configured to interpret the markup language documents and to generate program guide display screens for display on monitor . The program guide display screens may be generated with display elements at positions and with styles that are indicated by the markup language documents. In addition actions assigned to display elements by the markup language documents may be selected by control circuitry to provide program guide functionality. The functions of control circuitry may be provided using the set top box arrangement of . Alternatively these functions may be integrated into an advanced television receiver personal computer television PC TV or any other suitable arrangement. If desired a combination of such arrangements may be used. In client server based program guides for example control circuitry may be contained in suitable equipment at television distribution facility .

The user controls the operation of user television equipment with user interface . User interface may be a pointing device wireless remote control keyboard touch pad voice recognition system or any other suitable user input device. To watch television the user instructs control circuitry to display a desired television channel on monitor . To access the features of the program guide the user instructs the program guide implemented on user television equipment to generate a main menu or a desired program guide display screen for display on monitor .

When a user indicates a desire to view television programming information e.g. by using a guide key on remote control the program guide generates an appropriate program guide display screen such as a program listings screen for display on monitor . A program listings screen may contain one or more lists of programs organized according to multiple organization criteria e.g. by program type theme or any other pre defined or user defined and selectable criteria and sorted in various ways e.g. alphabetically . The program listings screen may be overlaid over a program being viewed by the user or overlaid over a portion of the program in a browse mode.

One approach is to organize program listings into a program listings grid. illustrates the display of program listings in program listings grid . Program listings grid may be divided into a number of columns which correspond to program broadcast times and which may be equally spaced apart e.g. in thirty minute steps . Program listings may be displayed in the grid in sub sets according to multiple selectable organization criteria and sorted in various ways. Program listings row contains for example selectable program listings for THE DESERTS OF AFRICA and WILDLIFE on channel 46 Public Television . Program listings row contains for example selectable program listings for GHOST and TITANIC on channel 47 HBO . Program listings row contains for example selectable program listings for programs BLUES BROTHERS on channel 48 VH 1 . Program listing row contains selectable program listings for programs PPV and PPV on channel 49 ADU . Program listings row contains a selectable program listing for COOKING on channel 50 WPTU . The programs on each channel are typically different.

Program listings grid may have movable cell highlight region which highlights the current grid cell. The user may position highlight region by entering appropriate commands with user interface device . For example if user input interface device has a keypad the user can position highlight region using up down left and right cursor keys. Remote program listings may also be panned left right up and down by positioning highlight region using the cursor keys on remote control . Alternatively a touch sensitive screen trackball voice commands or other suitable device may be used to move highlight region or to select program listings without the use of highlight region . In still another approach the user may speak a television program listing into a voice request recognition system. Any other suitable approach may be used.

After a user selects a program listing the interactive program guide may provide the user with the opportunity to access a number of program guide features. For example the user may access additional information typically text or graphics but possibly video and other information about the listing set a reminder schedule an associated program for recording set parental control features set and navigate through favorite channels or any other suitable program guide feature.

Program listings may also be displayed for the user in a list. illustrates a program listings display screen having a program listings list displayed in accordance with the principles of the present invention. Scrollable program listings lists may display program listings in subsets according to user selected organization criteria. Any suitable organization criteria and sorting scheme may be used. Scrollable program listings list of for example organizes program listings according to program type and then sorts the listings alphabetically in each sub set. The television program listings display screen of also has movable cell highlight region for moving within the list and selecting listings.

Program guide display screens may display a number of display elements such as program listings grid program listings list or any other suitable display element. Display elements may be arranged or styled using the markup language documents. Program guide functions may be indicated and selected using the markup language documents. Preferably the markup language used is a standardized and widely accepted markup language such as HTML DHTML or XML. The program guide is also programmed to interpret the markup language documents. The program guide is programmed to generate display screens and select program guide functionality according to the markup language documents.

Display screen style and layout and program guide functionality may be set initially for the program guide and later modified by the markup language documents supplied by main facility to the interactive television program guide. In practice when the program guide is going to be updated with a new markup language document an operator at a main facility television distribution facility or other interested facility generates a desirable markup language document using any suitable word processor or markup language document editor. The markup language document may be provided to the interactive program guide manually or automatically e.g. at a predefined time . The markup language document is provided to stored by and interpreted by the interactive program guide without the intervention of the user. This provides for allowing an operator to centrally update the display characteristic and functionality of the program guide without user intervention.

Display elements are defined using a non markup language approach and are preprogrammed into the program guide. Display elements may for example be programmed into the interactive program guide using any suitable programming language e.g. Visual BASIC C etc. . The markup language documents may organize display element attributes e.g. style layout and action attributes into finite sets of display element attributes which may be a subset of the attributes actually programmed into the program guide. The sets of display element attributes may be assigned to the display elements using indicators or tags. The tags may indicate where to place the defined display elements on the program guide display screen. The tags may also indicate styles to be applied to the display elements. Preferably the display elements are programmed to render themselves to the program guide display screen at the position and with the style defined in the markup language document. The defined display elements may include any suitable program guide display screen element such as advertisement elements program listings grid elements video window elements text window elements or any other suitable display screen or standard markup language element.

Program guide functions are defined using a non markup language approach and are preprogrammed into the program guide. Functions may for example be programmed into the program guide using any suitable programming language e.g. Visual BASIC C etc. . Program guide functionality may be apparent to the user through display element actions or may be transparent. Any suitable display element action may be assigned and selected using markup language documents. For example one action may be to replace a partial screen program listings grid e.g. grid with a full screen program listings grid in response to a suitable user command. Another action may cause the grid to scroll page change its display e.g. display listings by theme instead of channel display listings in a list instead of in a grid start a program search or action list or perform any other suitable action in response to a suitable user command. The user selection of a program listing in the grid may for example cause the program guide to display a program listings information screen start a recording set a reminder or perform other suitable actions.

When markup language documents are supplied to the interactive television program guide the program guide interprets the documents and generates or modifies the appropriate program guide display screens and program guide functionality according to the documents without intervention by the user. The display characteristics of the display screens may be changed without the need for updating application code and may be completed in real time and without ever involving the user in the update process.

Screen may also contain other display elements such as on screen options or buttons which allow the user to access some feature of the program guide. For example the user may press subscribe button by entering appropriate commands on user interface . By pressing subscribe button the program guide may allow the user to subscribe to the program being promoted. Screen may also include a picture of the local service provider s logo such as logo area .

The layout of screen may become undesirable over time. For example it may be decided that having a bigger video area and a smaller text area would be more attractive to the user. It may also be desirable to add additional features to the display screen such as providing a next and previous button to allow users to scroll through promotional videos at their own pace. It may also be desirable to update the logo of the service provider.

As shown in display element attributes and may be organized into sets and . Each display element may be assigned a set of attributes. Markup language document may tag display element identifiers using tags . Tags are generically labeled T T and T to indicate which display element is being tagged display element display element and display element respectively . Tags have associated attributes e.g. A A A A A and A from the sets that may indicate for example where on the display screen the display elements will be placed their size and how they will be styled e.g. color font special effects etc. . To generate a display screen such as screen the interactive program guide may parse the markup language document extract the style and layout information and generate a display screen accordingly.

Steps involved in operating the program guide of the present invention are set forth in . illustrates steps involved in generating display screens. At step the program guide is supplied with markup language documents which arrange and style the display elements as part of the initial programming of the program guide. The documents are preferably of a widely accepted and standardized markup language such as HTML DHTML XML or any other suitable markup language. At step the program guide interprets the markup language documents. Particular types of markup language documents may be interpreted at substeps and respectively. The display screens are generated according to the markup language documents at step . This may include substeps and in which the display elements are arranged sized and styled respectively. At step the program guide displays the display screens according to the markup language documents.

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

