---

title: Tow hitch lunette assembly
abstract: For use in a vehicular trailer hitch system, a vehicular trailer hitch lunette assembly is provided. The assembly includes at least one “U” shaped outer laminate plate having two legs with a semi-circular region therebetween, and at least one substantially flat inner laminate plate positioned between the legs of the U-shape of the outer laminate plate to provide support, stiffness, and additional mechanical strength to the assembly. The outer laminate plate and the inner laminate plate have cooperating apertures that are traversely positioned therethrough and the apertures are aligned and sized such that fasteners may be snugly inserted therein to mechanically couple the laminate plates together as a sandwich structure having first and second ends. The semi-circular region of the outer laminate plate and ends of the inner laminate plate comprise an inner void at the first end of the assembly to provide a lunette shaped structure to attach to a complimentary hitch assembly that is adapted to receive the lunette shaped structure, and the second end of the assembly is shaped to mate to a corresponding housing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07441793&OS=07441793&RS=07441793
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07441793
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060117
---
The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to me.

Tow hitch assemblies are generally implemented in connection with a tow vehicle such as a truck and a towed vehicle such as a trailer and the like. Trailers for construction equipment and other heavy duty trailers often use a hitch assembly having a lunette eye trailer tongue to provide mechanical coupling between the tow vehicle and the towed vehicle. The lunette tongue can include a rigid durable hitch ring or eye having a toroidal i.e. donut or lunette shape. The eye can be placed over or secured to a vertical post or pin or latched into a pintle or the like on the tow vehicle.

Referring to an isometric perspective view of a conventional tow hitch assembly is shown. The tow hitch assembly generally includes a tow hitch lunette assembly and a housing . The tow hitch lunette assembly is offset i.e. zig zag or Z shaped to provide proper interface height between a tow vehicle and a towed vehicle having unequal tow point heights.

The tow hitch lunette assembly is generally sized and shaped to slidably fit snugly into the housing . The housing has apertures holes formed in respective side faces to provide for insertion of retention fasteners . The tow hitch lunette assembly is generally mechanically fastened to the housing via a plurality of the through bolt nut or pin fasteners . Additional components assemblies sub assemblies etc. such as electrical connectors switches surge dampers and the like not shown may also be fastened to the housing via respective holes using any appropriate fasteners not shown . The tow hitch lunette assembly is generally mechanically fastened to a tow vehicle hitch via an eye or donut portion . The housing is generally mechanically coupled to the towed vehicle.

To provide adequate strength in an offset configuration conventional offset tow hitch lunette assemblies such as the assembly are typically made of cast metal e.g. iron steel etc. that is processed by surface grinding machining and drilling. As such the conventional tow hitch lunette assemblies such as the assembly are heavy and costly to manufacture. In addition the cast metal in the offset configuration may be prone to fatigue failure.

Thus there exists a need and an opportunity for an improved tow hitch lunette assembly. Such an improved tow hitch lunette assembly may overcome one or more of the deficiencies of the conventional approaches.

According to the present invention for use in a vehicular trailer hitch system a vehicular trailer hitch lunette assembly is provided. The assembly comprises at least one U shaped outer laminate plate having two legs with a semi circular region therebetween and at least one substantially flat inner laminate plate positioned between the legs of the U shape of the outer laminate plate to provide support stiffness and additional mechanical strength to the assembly.

The outer laminate plate and the inner laminate plate have cooperating apertures that are traversely positioned therethrough and the apertures are aligned and sized such that fasteners may be snugly inserted therein to mechanically couple the laminate plates together as a sandwich structure having first and second ends.

The semi circular region of the outer laminate plate and ends of the inner laminate plate comprise an inner void at the first end of the assembly to provide a lunette shaped structure to attach to a complimentary hitch assembly that is adapted to receive the lunette shaped structure and the second end of the assembly is shaped to mate to a corresponding housing.

In one example at least one of the outer laminate plate and the inner laminate plate is implemented using vanadium steel.

The assembly further comprises a wear plate that is fixed to a surface formed by one set of edges of the outer and inner laminate plates and the wear plate includes a void accommodation aperture that is sized substantially the same as and is aligned with the void. The wear plate may be implemented using vanadium steel.

The assembly of claim further comprises a Z shaped offset to provide accommodation of height variation between a tow vehicle and a towed vehicle.

In one example the assembly further comprises a cylindrically shaped hollow lunette insert that is disposed and fastened within the void and has a respective cylindrical axis parallel to the cylindrical axis of the semi circular region to provide additional strength and uniformity to the void. The lunette insert may be implemented using vanadium steel.

In one example the lunette insert has a shaped recess formed in one face of the outer cylindrical surface and the recess is shaped and positioned to cooperate with a matching one of the apertures to retain the lunette insert within the void.

In another example the assembly further comprises an arcuate section of a hollow cylindrically shaped member to form a lunette insert that is disposed and fastened within the void and has a respective cylindrical axis parallel to the cylindrical axis of the semi circular region and attached to the ends of the inner laminate plates that form the rearward portion of the void to provide additional strength and uniformity to the void. The lunette insert may be implemented using vanadium steel.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved system for a tow hitch lunette assembly for use in connection with a vehicular trailer tow hitch system. The tow hitch lunette assembly of the present invention may be implemented in connection with a tow generally pull or push vehicle such as a truck and a towed generally pulled or pushed vehicle such as a trailer and the like. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 280 940 to Kendall which is incorporated by reference in its entirety as an example of the tow vehicle and the towed vehicle environment in which the present invention may be implemented.

Referring to in combination diagrams illustrating a top view and side view of a vehicular trailer tow hitch lunette assembly of the present invention are shown. The tow hitch lunette assembly i.e. system apparatus device etc. is generally implemented in connection with a vehicular trailer tow hitch system that includes a vehicular trailer tow hitch assembly housing or a towed vehicle drawbar. In one example the tow hitch lunette assembly may be advantageously implemented in connection with a vehicular trailer tow hitch assembly housing similar to the housing of . However the tow hitch lunette assembly may be implemented in connection with any appropriate tow hitch assembly drawbar component s sub assembly ies system sub system s and the like to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

Relative directions e.g. vertical longitudinal etc. are generally as shown. Lateral i.e. transverse left right etc. directions are generally perpendicular to the vertical longitudinal plane.

In one example the vehicular trailer hitch tow hitch lunette assembly of the present invention may solve the problem of mismatched equipment hitch heights. The adapter can be used with a trailer or other towed device which has an appropriate housing on the end of i.e. mechanically coupled to a towing tongue. The present invention may provide a robust and cost efficient solution for a tow hitch lunette assembly.

In one example the assembly comprises a laminated structure having a region i.e. section portion etc. at a first end a region and a region at a second end. The regions and are generally adjacent i.e. contiguous portions of the structure . In one example implementation the section may comprise the fore end of the assembly the section may comprise the aft end of the assembly and the section may comprise a center structure between the sections and at the first and second ends respectively.

The section is generally implemented as a lunette i.e. eye structure having a rounded end i.e. a substantially semi circular outer e.g. foremost end that comprises an inner void e.g. aperture hole opening etc. such that lunette structure may be used to attach a towed vehicle to a truck or other prime mover having a complimentary i.e. matching mounting assembly such as a pintle boss and pin structure and the like not shown that is generally adapted to receive and hold the lunette eye region of the assembly .

The section is generally implemented as an offset e.g. the offset H to provide accommodation of height variation between the tow vehicle and the towed vehicle. In one example the offset H may be zig zag or Z shaped. The amount of the offset H is generally selected i.e. predetermined chosen etc. to meet the design criteria of a particular application. In one example e.g. as shown in the lunette assembly may be implemented having a dropped section via the offset i.e. the section may be offset from the section by the amount H in the downward direction . In another example not shown the lunette assembly may be implemented having a raised section via the offset i.e. the section may be offset from the section by the amount H in the upward direction .

The section is generally shaped to mate i.e. install to a housing e.g. a corresponding structure on the vehicle that is to tow the desired piece of equipment or alternatively on the towed equipment. In one example e.g. as shown in the region may be substantially rectangularly shaped. However the region may have any appropriate shape to interface with any appropriate housing assembly to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

The vehicular trailer tow hitch lunette assembly generally comprises at least one outer laminate plate e.g. outer laminate plates and at least one inner laminate plate e.g. inner laminate plates . The laminate plates and are generally assembled as a sandwich structure to form the lunette assembly . The planar shaped portion of the laminate plates and are generally disposed positioned vertically. In one example not shown the edges of the laminate plates and may comprise top and bottom surfaces of the assembly .

However in another example e.g. as shown in a Z shaped plate may be fixed e.g. fastened welded adhered etc. to the bottom edges of the laminate plates and to form a bottom surface of the assembly . The bottom plate may be implemented as a wear plate to reduce wear of the bottom the tow hitch lunette system . The wear plate generally includes a void accommodation aperture that is sized substantially the same as and is aligned with the void .

The laminate plates and may have apertures e.g. holes slots and the like that are traversely laterally positioned therethrough. In one example e.g. holes and the apertures may be implemented to cooperate such that fasteners such as throughbolts pins or the like not shown similar to the bolts as shown in may be installed e.g. inserted to hold together i.e. mechanically couple the laminate plates and .

In another example e.g. the hole and the slot the apertures may be implemented and sized such that throughbolts or the like may be snugly installed to mechanically couple the laminate plates and and to cooperate with and mechanically couple the vehicular trailer tow hitch lunette assembly in the mating hitch assembly housing not shown . Common apertures in the laminate plates and are generally aligned vertically and longitudinally to provide access for installation of the mechanical fasteners e.g. throughbolts .

As illustrated in i.e. as viewed from the top the laminate plates are generally U shaped i.e. hairpin shaped having two legs with a semi circular region therebetween to provide the semi circular rounded end of the section and the outer lateral surfaces of the assembly . The U shaped portion has a respective cylindrical axis. The semi circular region of the outer laminate plates and the forward ends of the inner laminate plates comprise the inner void at the first end of the assembly to provide a lunette shaped structure to attach to a complimentary hitch assembly that is adapted to receive the lunette shaped structure .

The laminate plates are generally positioned between the legs of the U shape of the plates . The laminate plates are generally singular substantially flat plates that may be implemented to provide support stiffness and additional mechanical strength to the assembly .

Referring to a diagram illustrating a side elevation view of an alternative implementation of the tow hitch lunette assembly the present invention is shown. The apparatus may be implemented without an offset section such that the sections and are at substantially the same elevation. That is the assembly including the respective wear plate when implemented may be substantially flat.

Referring to diagrams illustrating top plan views of alternative examples of section of the tow hitch lunette assembly are shown. The apparatus may further comprise a cylindrically shaped hollow lunette insert . The insert is generally disposed having a respective cylindrical axis vertical within the void i.e. parallel to the cylindrical axis of the semi circular region of the outer laminate plate . The insert may provide additional structural strength and uniformity within the void region of the eye section . The hitch pin or pintle not shown that is implemented in connection with the present invention may be placed within the insert to provide the desired mechanical coupling between the tow vehicle and the towed vehicle.

In one example as shown for example in B D and E the lunette insert may be implemented having a cylindrical shape. In one example as shown for example in D and E the laminate plates may be substantially adjacent to the insert . In another example as shown for example in one or more of the laminate plates may be disposed away from i.e. not adjacent to the insert .

In another example as shown for example in the lunette insert may be implemented as an arcuate section or portion of a hollow cylindrically shaped member. The insert as shown in may be attached to the ends of the laminate plates that form the rearward portion of the void .

In one example as shown for example in the insert may be fastened retained inside the void via welding or the like. In another example e.g. as shown in the insert may have a shaped recess formed in one face of the outer cylindrical surface. The recess is generally shaped and positioned to cooperate with a matching aperture e.g. aperture such that a pin throughbolt or the like may be implemented to snugly retain the insert within the void .

In one example at least one of the laminate plates and the bottom plate and the insert may be implemented using vanadium steel i.e. steel alloyed with vanadium for potential improvement in machinability strength hardness and high temperature stability . In one example the vanadium steel may be an alloy comprising approximately 0.18 percent vanadium and about 1.00 percent chromium. When heat treated the vanadium steel may have strength toughness and resistance to wear and fatigue which exceed that of conventional alloy steel. At least one grade of the vanadium steel in sheet form may be cold formed into intricate shapes folded and flattened without breaking or exhibiting other failure modes. However the laminate plates and the bottom plate and the insert are generally implemented using any appropriate materials to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved system for a tow hitch lunette assembly.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

