---

title: Mine resistant band track
abstract: A band track for a tracked vehicle having enhanced resistance to mines includes a plurality of track pad units disposed on the bearing surface of the track band. The track pad units have extended end walls of sufficient height to distance the vulnerable portion of the band track from the shearing force of an exploding mine. These end walls are sufficiently strong to support the vehicle as it traverses terrain, but are configured to collapse in controlled manner under the force of an exploding mine. Such explosion forces a specifically configured front end wall of a trailing track pad to engage the matingly configured end wall of the leading track pad. The resulting mating juxtaposition of the adjacent end walls forms a relatively continuous physical barrier protecting the vulnerable section of the band track from shrapnel and other entrained ejecta of the explosion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07445299&OS=07445299&RS=07445299
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07445299
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060706
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties therefore or thereon. This patent is expected to be assigned to the United States Government.

The instant invention relates to band tracks for tracked vehicles and more particularly the instant invention relates to a mine resistant band track for tracked military vehicles such as tanks armored personnel carriers and the like.

Historically warfare scenarios and deployment techniques have limited the use of land mines to certain well defined situations to impede or channel opposing forces. Advance knowledge of mine field locations could permit effective countermeasures using mine clearing equipment such as mine clearing rollers mounted on lead vehicles projected explosive line charges or depending on the tactical situation sacrificing vehicles and uniformed personnel by simply charging over the mine field.

Introduction of mechanically emplaced and air delivered mines on the modern battlefield has compounded the problem of maintaining the mobility of armored vehicles. Air and artillery delivery capabilities have introduced offensive mining techniques wherein mines are laid at random along approach routes.

Tracked vehicles such as tanks can be stopped with relatively small explosive charges which are easily delivered by airplanes and artillery. Charges of this type cause a mobility failure by breaking track sections and temporarily stalling armored vehicles such as tanks which can then be destroyed by artillery and anti tank weapons generally placed to cover a mined area.

Blast mines generally have two damaging mechanisms operative when exploded. The first is the shearing forces associated with the rapid expansion of the blast envelope. As this blast envelope is spherical the force at the blast envelope front generally diminishes at a cubic rate as distance from the point of explosion increases in volumetric relationship to the spheroidal expansion. The second damage mechanism is the impact of entrained ejecta whether from intentionally included shrapnel or from ground debris ejected upon explosion. The damage effect of the ejecta diminishes at a squared rate as the distance from the point of explosion increases in relationship to the area of the spheroidal expansion surface.

Band type tracks employ flexible material and are generally more vulnerable to being rendered inoperable by mines than are conventional chain like hinge pinned type tracks. In band tracks fitted with track pads the band track typically fails along a transverse line at the front or rear of one or more of the track pads. For a given event it is not clear whether the failure caused by a mine explosion is primarily attributable to the shearing forces generated by the movement of the band track when impacted by the spherical blast envelope of the explosion or the impact of blast entrained ejecta. In most cases it is likely that the band track failure is caused by both damaging mechanisms.

In view of this evolution in expected battlefield conditions there continues to be a need for new and improved mine resistant track configurations including band tracks for tracked vehicles. Further it is desirable that such improved band track configurations resist both types of damaging mechanisms the shearing forces and the blast entrained ejecta.

In view of the aforementioned considerations it is a feature of the instant invention to provide a new and improved band track assembly able to withstand explosive charges which are sufficient to disable the tracks of current tracked vehicles.

In view of this feature the instant invention contemplates a band track which includes a plurality of track pad units disposed on the outside or bearing surface of a traditional track band. The track pad units have extended end walls giving the track pad a certain height which distances the vulnerable portion of the track band from the shearing force of an exploding mine. The end walls of the track pad are configured with sufficient thickness given the strength characteristics of the specific material selected for the pad to support the vehicle as it traverses terrain characteristics but are narrow or thin enough that the pad will collapse in a controlled manner under the greater force of an exploding mine. The end walls of the subject track pad are provided with curved sides that help deflect rather than transmit the very large compressional forces of the blast thus tending to prevent development of the large shearing forces contributing to band track failure.

Moreover the end walls are further configured such that they collapse in a relatively controlled manner whereby the force of an exploding mine forces a curved front end wall of a trailing track pad to mate or engage with the matingly configured end wall of the leading track pad. The mating juxtaposition of the respective end walls of the adjacent pads forms a relatively continuous physical barrier protecting the vulnerable section of the band track from shrapnel and any other entrained ejecta of the explosion.

In addition the instant invention contemplates a wheel and track assembly employing the afore described track pad and track assembly in combination.

As seen in a tracked vehicle may be of the type that includes a band track which is driven by a drive wheel . Band track is further entrained about multiple road wheels and typically about an idler wheel . In a preferred embodiment shown in but seen better in the cross sectional view of the subject invention band track comprises a band body having an inner surface and an outer surface . A center guide is disposed on inner surface and typically is medially placed thereon. Further side guides are located at at least one edge and more typically at both edges of the inner surface .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that as in conventional wheel and track assemblies for tracked vehicles the powered motion of the drive wheel in turn causes the orbital motion of the endless band track around entrained road wheels and idler wheel . It is also to be appreciated that the same wheel and track assembly and operation is provided on the other side of the vehicle . Also in conventional manner the orbital motion of the band track is driven and guided by the operation of center guide and side guides on the inner surface of the band track in coordination with appropriate guide receiving elements on each of wheels and .

A track pad comprised of multiple track pad units is disposed along the entire circumferential length of outer surface of band body . Each track pad unit has a bearing or road surface which is in contact with the varying surfaces of the different terrain over which the vehicle travels. Bearing or road surface may be selectively textured or studded to increase traction of the road surface over the prevalent terrain condition. Each track pad unit also comprises a front end wall and a back or rear end wall respectively placed at each end of unit and extending from outer surface of band body to road surface . The front end wall extends contiguously from the outer surface of band body to a front edge of the bearing surface and the rear end wall similarly extends contiguously from the outer surface of the band body to a rear edge of the bearing surface . Thus the outer surface of band body rear end wall bearing surface and front end wall define a pad cavity .

In the preferred embodiment shown in track pad units are open sided i.e. have no side walls such that pad cavity presents openings in the direction transverse to the length of band track . One of skill in the art however will appreciate that the subject invention will also provide its intended benefits in another configuration where the track pad unit is provided with side walls such that pad cavity is fully enclosed. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the benefits of side walls including the ability to avoid the extra weight of debris which might otherwise be picked up in the pad cavity may be counterbalanced by the weight of the side walls themselves. Alternative embodiments of track pad unit may further comprise sealed side walls as shown in which combine with a sealed interior face of band body a sealed interior face of bearing or road surface and sealed front and rear walls and to form a track pad cavity having an enclosed volume capable of being filled with a gas such as air which may further be pressurized creating a pneumatic element. In yet another alternative embodiment this enclosed volume of track pad cavity could be filled with a fluid pressurized or unpressurized creating an hydraulic element.

The track pad units and specifically the ends walls and are to be configured of such a width and thickness given the strength of its composition material that they will support the weight of the tracked vehicle with its supplies and occupants as it travels over all types of terrain. Yet the width thickness and strength of the front end wall and the rear end wall are selected such that these walls will collapse in a controlled manner under the force of a mine explosion. Moreover the front wall of each trailing track pad unit is configured to matingly engage or matingly nest with the appropriately configured juxtaposed rear end wall of the other leading track pad unit in such controlled collapse resulting from the compressional force of a mine explosion.

In the preferred embodiment depicted in the front wall has a generally convex arcuate shape capable of matingly engaging or matingly nesting with the generally concave arcuate shape of the adjacent rear end wall of neighboring track pad unit . It may be preferred although it is not critical. that the curve of the front end wall be oriented so that it is convex relative to the forward direction of movement of the track and that the rear end wall be oriented to matingly curve in an arc which is concave relative to the forward direction of movement of the track . Other embodiments in which the juxtaposed end walls have other mating configurations which can be conjoined upon controlled collapse are also within the scope of the present invention so long as the shape and strength of the end walls and of track pad unit can support the vehicle as it travels across multiple types of terrain and yet will controlledly collapse or buckle under the force of a mine explosion.

In another embodiment shown in the track pad unit may further comprise one or more additional interior support walls or septa located between front end wall and rear end wall and extending between an interior side of bearing surface and an exterior side of band body . As explained above in connection with the configuration of end walls and interior support septum or septa are configured of such width and thickness given the strength of its compositional material to assist in supporting the weight of the tracked vehicle as it traverses different terrain conditions. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that as the number of supporting septa which work in combination with end walls and to support the vehicle is increased each supporting wall and also end walls and if desired may be made thinner. Further interior support septum or septa will be formed in a shape designed to further cooperate in the controlled collapse of the track pad unit in general when the latter undergoes exposure to the explosive force of a mine. For example the shape of the support septa may be but is not limited to the arcuate shape analogous to the arcuate shape of front wall and rear wall illustrated in .

In all embodiments under the compressional force of an exploding mine the end walls and of multiple track pad units will controllably buckle or collapse such that adjacent pairs of front end walls and rear end walls will be conjoined to provide an essentially continuous physical barrier to the entrained ejecta minimizing the deleterious effect this ejecta will have on the band body . Maintaining the integrity of the band body will allow the band track to continue functioning thus maintaining vehicle mobility even after being subjected to a mine explosion.

Another aspect of the subject invention s ability to resist mine explosion relates to the height of the end walls and . Since the rapid expansion of the blast envelope of an exploding mine is essentially spherical the associated shearing forces of the blast envelope will diminish in a cubic relationship as a function of distance from the point of explosion just as the volume of a sphere increases as a cubic function of the sphere radius. Accordingly the height of the end walls and will serve to distance the vulnerable band body from the mine thus minimizing the effect of the shearing forces on the band body upon explosion. The height of the end walls and must also be selected with consideration of additional factors such as overall vehicle height track band weight and related fuel consumption physical characteristics of the material from which the track band of the subject invention is formed and the like. In a preferred embodiment the height of the end walls and may range from about 25 mm. to about 150 mm.

In operation a time delayed mine or a mine supplied with an insensitive fuse may explode at some time after initial passage of the leading track pad when the band track may be in a position such as that illustrated in . In such case under the sudden pressure increase of the blast envelope of the exploding mine a plurality of the track pads will undergo collapse of their respective front end walls and rear end walls such that adjacent front and rear end walls on adjacent track pads will be conjoined. Thus the ejecta from the explosion confront an essentially continuous physical barrier formed by the conjoined end wall pairs and the intermediate track pad bearing surfaces . In this manner the ejecta have reduced effect on the band body . Moreover the effect upon the band body of the shearing force of the blast envelope is diminished by the greater distance the blast envelope must travel as a result of the height of the end walls and of each track pad unit . Therefore the track body has significantly greater chance of maintaining its continuous physical integrity keeping the vehicle mobile in its hostile environment. By this operation the band track of the subject invention well satisfies its mine resistant function allowing the vehicle and its occupants to maintain mobility.

Various alterations and modifications which do not depart from the scope and spirit of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the foregoing specification and it is to be understood that the subject invention is to be limited only by the following claims.

