---

title: Apparatus and method for automatic conference initiation
abstract: In some embodiments, an automatic conference initiator system may include one or more of the following features: (a) a memory having, (i) an automatic conference initiator program that initiates a conference when conferees are determined available based upon presence information, and (b) a processor coupled to the memory that executes the automatic conference initiator program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07848265&OS=07848265&RS=07848265
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications, Inc.
number: 07848265
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060921
---
This invention relates to telecommunications systems. In particular this invention relates to collaboration systems. More particularly this invention relates to a presence based communication system that allows a user to specify that a conference should be automatically initiated as soon as required conferees become available.

The development of various voice over IP protocols such as the H.323 Recommendation and the Session Initiation Protocol SIP has led to increased interest in multimedia conferencing. In such conferencing typically a more or less central server or other device manages the conference and maintains the various communications paths to computers or other client devices being used by parties to participate in the conference. Parties to the conference may be able to communicate via voice and or video through the server and their client devices.

Instant messaging can provide an added dimension to multimedia conferences. In addition to allowing text chatting instant messaging systems such as the Microsoft Windows Messenger system can allow for transfer of files document sharing and collaboration collaborative whiteboarding and even voice and video. A complete multimedia conference can involve multiple voice and video streams the transfer of files marking up of documents and whiteboarding.

Presence based communications applications are entering the mainstream telecommunications environment. In such applications a user maintains one or more contact lists of other parties whose presence status is to be monitored and displayed to the user. When a contact s presence information indicates the contact is available the user can then contact them. The user can then contact the other party for example via a telephone call.

In computer and telecommunications networks presence information conveys availability and willingness of a user called a presentity to communicate. A users client provides presence information to a presence service to be stored and distributed to other users called watchers to convey its communication state. Presence information has wide application in voice over IP VoIP and instant messaging IM .

A user client may publish a presence state to indicate its current communication status. This published state informs others that wish to contact the user of the user s availability and willingness to communicate. The most common use of presence today is the status indicator displayed on most instant messaging clients. A simpler everyday example is the on hook or off hook state of a telephone receiver resulting in a distinctive ring tone e.g. a busy signal for a caller. Some states that offer extended information on the user s availability are free for chat away do not disturb and out to lunch which are often seen on many modern instant messaging clients. Rich information such as user mood and location may be also included. Presence is different from traditional on hook telephone status in that it deals with the user not the device you want to talk to a person not to a telephone .

Currently when a user initiates a conference for a pre designated list of conference attendees some of the attendees may not be available to receive voice calls. As a result attendees that the user thought were necessary for a productive meeting are not included and time is wasted.

Furthermore even in presence based communication systems where a user can look at the availability of the potential conferees to do so is time consuming. Even using a Tell Me When feature that notifies the user when a particular person is available for communications the user needs to set up the feature on many people potentially and keep track of when all of them are available. Again this is time consuming.

Therefore it is desirable to have a system that allows a presence based communication system user to initiate a conference automatically when the desired parties are available.

These and other drawbacks in the prior art are overcome in large part by a system and method according to embodiments of the present invention.

In some embodiments a method for automatic conference initiation may include one or more of the following steps a receiving a number of conferees for a conference b determining if the conferees were available for the conference based upon presence information c notifying a conference initiator that a predetermined number of conferees are available to begin the conference d receiving input on the predetermined number of conferees that must be present before the conference can begin e receiving input on required conferees that must be present before the conference can begin f receiving notification instructions on how to notify the conference initiator when the conference can begin and g obtaining presence information from a presence based telecommunications server.

In some embodiments an automatic conference initiator system may include one or more of the following features a a memory having i an automatic conference initiator program that initiates a conference when conferees are determined available based upon presence information and b a processor coupled to the memory that executes the automatic conference initiator program.

In some embodiments a machine readable medium comprising machine executable instructions may include one or more of the following features a receive instructions that receive inputted conferees to a scheduled conference b determination instructions that determine if the conferees are available based upon presence information c notification instructions that notify a conference initiator if a predetermined number of conferees are available d selection instructions that allow the conference initiator to select how the conference initiator is notified when the conference can begin e presence instructions that obtains presence information for the conferees and f conference instructions that allow the conference initiator to determine if the conference initiator wants to initiate the conference when it has been determined that the conference can be initiated.

The following discussion is presented to enable a person skilled in the art to make and use the present teachings. Various modifications to the illustrated embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the present teachings. Thus the present teachings are not intended to be limited to embodiments shown but are to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. The following detailed description is to be read with reference to the figures in which like elements in different figures have like reference numerals. The figures which are not necessarily to scale depict selected embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the present teachings. Skilled artisans will recognize the examples provided herein have many useful alternatives and fall within the scope of the present teachings.

Embodiments of the present invention disclose presence based automatic conference initiation with minimum conferee requirements. This enables a user in a presence based communication system to indicate a conference should be automatically initiated when a specified minimum subset of a pre designated list of potential conferees become available.

When setting up the request the worker can indicate a minimum number of the potential conferees that must be available to begin the conference. Further upon set up the user can indicate a subset of the potential conferees that must be available for the conference to begin. Finally the user can indicate whether he wants to confirm the conference setup. If so when the desired conferees become available the user can receive a pop up upon which he must hit OK before the conference is initiated. Otherwise the conference is initiated without confirmation.

Embodiments of the present invention allow a user to reduce wasted time attending a conference without all required parties. The user need not waste time determining when all the required parties are available. The user does not waste time waiting to start a conference once the required parties are available.

Presence based communication systems such as Siemens HiPath OpenScape have presence trigger features such as the Tell Me When feature which allow a user to be automatically notified when another user s presence status changes. For example a worker uses Tell Me When to be notified via a Windows pop up that a particular user is now available for voice calls. In addition collaboration systems allow a worker to click to start a conference with a pre designated list of people.

Embodiments of the present invention allow a user to indicate a conference should be initiated only when all required potential conferees in a pre designated list of people become available. When setting up the request the user can indicate a minimum number of parties that must be available before the conference can be initiated as is described in detail below. This defaults to all parties but the user may sometimes want to choose a smaller number if they believe the conference is worthwhile with fewer than all the parties. Further the user can indicate which potential conferees are required to be available before the conference can be initiated. This defaults to all parties but the worker may sometimes want to specify a subset of all the parties if they believe the conference is worthwhile even with only the specified key people.

The user can indicate whether he wants to confirm the conference setup. If so when all required potential conferees become available the user receives a pop up upon which he must hit OK before the conference is initiated. Otherwise the conference is initiated without confirmation. Embodiments of the present invention remove these disadvantages. Initiating a conference only when all desired conferees are available becomes a one step procedure.

Furthermore this invention provides flexibility not currently available by allowing the user to indicate the minimum number of conferees that must be available and what subset of the conferees must be available before the conference can be started. These additional options protect the user from wasting time when not enough people are available or when key people are not available. It also protects the worker from wasting time waiting for all potential conferees to become available once key people or enough people are available.

Turning now to the drawings and with particular attention to a diagram schematically illustrating a multi modal presence based telecommunications system according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. Telecommunications system includes real time communication capabilities messaging capabilities business applications and collaboration applications . Real time communication can include for example voice video or cellular. Messaging includes e mail instant messaging short messaging service SMS or other text based services. Business applications can include for example Customer Relationship Management CRM and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP software packages. Collaboration applications can include conferencing whiteboarding and document sharing applications.

In addition a multi modal presence feature according to embodiments of the present invention can provide presence services including history and scheduling information aggregated across various media and .

It is noted that while illustrated as a multi modal presence system embodiments of the present invention are equally applicable to systems employing only single presence based media. Thus the figures are exemplary only.

Referring now to a diagram of an exemplary telecommunications or conference system in some embodiments is shown. As shown system may include a local area network LAN . LAN may be implemented using a TCP IP network and may implement voice or multimedia over IP using for example the Session Initiation Protocol SIP . Operably coupled to local area network is a server . Server may include one or more controllers which may be embodied as one or more microprocessors and memory for storing application programs and data. Controller may implement an instant messaging system . Instant messaging system may be embodied as a SIP proxy register and SIMPLE Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions clients or other instant messaging system Microsoft Windows Messenger software . In some embodiments if possible and practicable instant messaging system may implement or be part of the Microsoft.Net environment and or Real Time Communications server or protocol RTC .

In addition in some embodiments a collaboration system may be provided which may be part of an interactive suite of applications run by controller . In addition an action prompt module may be provided which detects occurrences of action cues and causes action prompt windows to be launched at client devices . Collaboration system may allow users of the system to become participants in a conference or collaboration session.

Also coupled to LAN is a gateway which may be implemented as a gateway to a private branch exchange PBX the public switched telephone network PSTN or any of a variety of other networks such as a wireless or cellular network. In addition one or more LAN telephones and one or more computers may be operably coupled to LAN . In some embodiments one or more other types of networks may be used for communication between server computers telephones gateway etc. For example in some embodiments a communications network might be or include the Internet the World Wide Web or some other public or private computer cable telephone client server peer to peer or communications network or intranet. In some embodiments a communications network also can include other public and or private wide area networks local area networks wireless networks data communication networks or connections intranets routers satellite links microwave links cellular or telephone networks radio links fiber optic transmission lines ISDN lines T1 lines DSL connections etc. Moreover as used herein communications include those enabled by wired or wireless technology. Also in some embodiments one or more client devices e.g. the computers may be connected directly to the server .

The computers may be personal computers implementing the Windows XP operating system and thus Windows Messenger instant messenger system or SIP clients running on the Linux or other operating system running voice over IP clients or other clients capable of participating in voice or multimedia conferences. In addition computers may include telephony and other multimedia messaging capability using for example peripheral cameras Web cams microphones and speakers not shown or peripheral telephony handsets such as the Optipoint handset available from the Siemens Corporation. In other embodiments one or more of the computers may be implemented as wireless telephones digital telephones or personal digital assistants PDAs . Thus the figures are exemplary only. As shown with reference to computer the computers may include one or more controllers such as Pentium type microprocessors and storage for applications and other programs.

Finally computers may implement interaction services in some embodiments. Interaction services may allow for interworking of phone buddy list instant messaging presence collaboration calendar and other applications. In addition interaction services may allow access to the collaboration system or module and action prompt module of server .

Turning now to a functional model diagram illustrating collaboration system is shown. More particularly is a logical diagram illustrating a particular embodiment of a collaboration server . Server includes a plurality of application modules and a communication broker CB module . One or more of the application modules and communication broker module may include an inference engine i.e. a rules or heuristics based artificial intelligence engine for implementing functions in some embodiments. In addition server provides interfaces such as APIs application programming interfaces to SIP phones or other SIP User Agents and gateways interworking units .

According to the embodiment illustrated broker module includes a basic services module an advanced services module an automation module and a toolkit module . Automation module implements an automation framework for ISVs independent software vendors that allow products software etc. provided by such ISVs to be used with or created by server .

Basic services module functions to implement for example phone support PBX interfaces call features and management as well as Windows Messaging software and RTC add ins when necessary. The phone support features allow maintenance of and access to buddy lists and provide presence status.

Advanced services module implements functions such as presence multipoint control unit or multi channel conferencing unit MCU recording and the like. MCU functions are used for voice conferencing and support ad hoc and dynamic conference creation from a buddy list following the SIP conferencing model for ad hoc conferences. In certain embodiments support for G.711 G.723.1 or other codecs is provided. Further in some embodiments the MCU can distribute media processing over multiple servers using the MEGACO H.248 protocol. In some embodiments an MCU may provide the ability for participants to set up ad hoc voice data or multimedia conferencing sessions. During such conferencing sessions different client devices e.g. computers may establish channels to the MCU and server the channels carrying voice audio video and or other data from and to participants via their associated client devices. In some cases more than one participant may be participating in the conference via the same client device. For example multiple participants may be using a telephone e.g. telephone located in a conference room to participate in the conference. Thus the multiple participants are aggregated behind a single channel to participate in the conference. Also in some cases a participant may be using one client device e.g. a computer or multiple devices e.g. a computer and a telephone to participate in the conference. The Real Time Transport Protocol RTP and the Real Time Control Protocol RTCP may be used to facilitate or manage communications or data exchanges between the client devices for the participants in the conference.

In some embodiments an MCU may include a conference mixer application or logical function that provides the audio video voice etc. data to the different participants. The MCU may handle or manage establishing the calls in and out to the different participants and establish different channels with the client devices used by the participants. Server may include have access to or be in communication with additional applications or functions that establish a list of participants in the conference as well as identify the participants speaking at a given moment during the conference.

Presence features provide device context for both SIP registered devices and user defined non SIP devices. Various user contexts such as In Meeting On Vacation In the Office etc. can be provided for. In addition voice e mail and instant messaging availability may be provided across the user s devices. The presence feature enables real time call control using presence information e.g. to choose a destination based on the presence of a user s device s . In addition various components have a central repository for presence information and for changing and querying presence information. In addition the presence module provides a user interface for presenting the user with presence information.

In addition broker module may include the ComResponse platform available from Siemens Information and Communication Networks Inc. The ComResponse platform features include speech recognition speech to text and text to speech and allows for creation of scripts for applications. The speech recognition and speech to text features may be used by collaboration summarization unit and action prompt module .

In addition real time call control is provided by a SIP API associated with basic services module . That is calls can be intercepted in progress and real time actions performed on them including directing those calls to alternate destinations based on rules and or other stimuli. SIP API also provides call progress monitoring capabilities and for reporting status of such calls to interested applications. SIP API also provides for call control from the user interface.

Toolkit module may provide tools APIs scripting language interfaces software modules libraries software drivers objects etc. that may be used by software developers or programmers to build or integrate additional or complementary applications.

According to the embodiment illustrated the application modules include a collaboration module an interaction center module a mobility module an interworking services module a collaboration summarization module and an action prompt module .

Collaboration module allows for creation modification or deletion of a collaboration or conference session for a group of participants or other users. Collaboration module may further allow for invoking a voice conference from any client device. In addition the collaboration module can launch a multi media conferencing package such as the WebEX package. It is noted that the multi media conferencing can be handled by other products applications devices etc.

Interaction center provides a telephony interface for both subscribers and guests. Subscriber access functions include calendar access and voicemail and e mail access. The calendar access allows the subscriber to accept decline or modify appointments as well as block out particular times. The voicemail and e mail access allows the subscriber to access and sort messages.

Similarly the guest access feature allows the guest access to voicemail for leaving messages and calendar functions for scheduling canceling and modifying appointments with subscribers. Further the guest access feature allows a guest user to access specific data meant for them e.g. receiving e mail and fax back etc.

Mobility module provides for message forwarding and one number access across media and message morphing across media for the subscriber. Further various applications can send notification messages to a variety of destinations such as e mails instant messages pagers and the like. In addition a user can set rules that mobility module uses to define media handling such as e mail voice and instant messaging handling. Such rules specify data and associated actions. For example a rule could be defined to say If I m traveling and I get a voicemail or e mail marked Urgent then page me. 

Further collaboration summarization module is used to identify or highlight portions of a multimedia conference and configure the portions sequentially for later playback. The portions may be stored or identified based on recording cues either preset or settable by one or more of the participants in the conference such as a moderator. The recording cues may be based on vocalized keywords identified by the voice recognition unit of the ComResponse module or may be invoked by special controls or video or whiteboarding or other identifiers.

The action prompt module similarly allows a user to set action cues which cause the launch of an action prompt window at the user s associated client device . In response the client devices can then perform various functions in accordance with the action cues.

Now referring to a system is illustrated that provides a simplified version of an alternative to or a different view of system for purposes of further discussion. In some embodiments some or all of the components illustrated in may be included in server used with system but they are not required. System includes server connected via LAN to a number of client devices and . Client devices may include computers e.g. computers telephones e.g. telephones PDAs cellular telephones workstations or other devices. Client devices and each may include interaction services unit previously discussed above. Server may include MCU which is in communication with list application or function . In some embodiments list application may be part of include in or integrated with MCU . MCU may communicate directly or indirectly with one or more of client devices and via one or more channels. In some embodiments other devices may be placed in the communication paths between MCU and one or more of client devices and e.g. a media processor may be connected to both MCU and the client devices to perform mixing and other media processing functions .

When a conference is established or operating MCU may handle or manage establishing communication channels to the different client devices associated with participants in the conference. In some embodiments MCU may use RTP channels to communicate with various client devices. In addition or as an alternative MCU may use side or other channels e.g. HTTP channels to communicate with the different client devices. For example MCU may provide audio and video data to a client device using RTP but may provide information via a side or different channel for display by an interface or window on the client device.

MCU also may include conference mixer . Conference mixer may take samples of the incoming voice and other signals on the different channels and send them out to the participants client devices so that all of the participants are receiving the same information and data. Thus the conference may be broken down into a series of sample periods each of which may have some of the same active channels. Different sample periods during a conference may include different active channels.

Mixer may use one or more mixing algorithms to create the mixed sample s from the incoming samples. Mixer may then provide the mixed sample s to the client devices.

In some embodiments a sample may include or use voice or signal data from only some of the channels being used in a conference. For example a sample may include voice or other signals only from the two channels having the loudest speakers or which are considered the most relevant of the channels during the particular sample time.

Each sample provided by mixer may last for or represent a fixed or varied period of time during a conference. Different incoming samples may represent different periods of time during the conference. In addition different samples may represent voice or other signals from different channels used by participants in the conference. In some embodiments mixer also may provide the incoming samples or a mixed sample created from one or more of the incoming samples to list application or other part of MCU so that one or both can determine who is speaking during the specific sample period or in the selected sample s .

In some embodiments mixer using or in combination with its knowledge of a mixing algorithm used to create a mixed sample may determine which participant is speaking during a mixed sample. Alternatively in some embodiments MCU or list application may be aware of the mixing algorithm and determine which participant is speaking during the mixed sample. List application or MCU may then provide information back to mixer regarding who is speaking during the mixed sample.

When a conference is established or operating list application may determine the participants in the conference and may be used to identify particular speakers during the conference based on its list of participants. In some embodiments list application may be operating on a different device from MCU . For example list application may be part of another conferencing or signaling application that is operating on another device and communicates with MCU via a first channel and with client devices directly or indirectly via a second channel. In some embodiments list application may provide information regarding the names of participants to MCU .

List application may determine the list of participants from numerous sources or using numerous methods. For example in some embodiments list application may access a list of invitees to the conference which may be manually entered or selected by a person organizing or facilitating the conference. As another example list application may receive information from MCU regarding the client devices participating in the conference and or the people associated with the client devices. As another example MCU may provide an audio stream or audio data to list application . The list application then may use voice or name recognition techniques to extract names or excerpts from the audio stream or data. Audio excerpts may be matched against a previously created list of names specific key words phrases or idioms e.g. My name is Paul Hi this is Sam buddy list entries contact lists etc. to help recognize names. As another example if a conference is associated with a particular organization or group information about members of the organization or group may be used to build or as input to the participant list. In a further example the list application may use protocol information from the audio or other sessions in a conference to build the participant list. As a more specific example the list application may obtain data from the CNAME NAME and or EMAIL fields used in RTP RTCP compliant audio sessions.

In some embodiments MCU or the list application may be able to detect and differentiate between multiple participants aggregated behind or associated with a single channel. Thus the MCU or the list application may be able to determine how many participants are sharing a channel in the conference and or detect which of the participants are speaking at given points in time. MCU or the list application may use speaker recognition or other speech related technologies algorithms etc. to provide such functions.

In some embodiments MCU and or the list application may be able to detect which of the channels being used by the client devices participating in the conference are the most significant or indicate the level of activity of the different channels which may be relative or absolute . MCU or list application may use voice activity detection signal energy computation or other technology method or algorithm to provide such functions.

MCU and or list application may correlate source information from the different channels to the list of participants previously created. For example if there is only one speaker e.g. a single source on a channel to a client device list application may associate the owner of the client device with the speaker. If there are multiple sources e.g. multiple speakers on a channel each speaker may be correlated to or associated with a name from the participation list or a name that was recognized via voice or speech recognition. If the multiple sources cannot be distinguished a single participant may be associated with or assigned to the channel or to the source e.g. the device providing the signal on the channel . Mixer may provide the source and channel information to one or more of the client devices being used in the conference as a way of identifying a participant associated with the source and or channel.

In some embodiments based on information provided by list application or other part of MCU conference mixer may identify zero one or multiple participants for each channel which are active or which have been active over a certain amount of time e.g. active within the last half second . In addition conference mixer may determine the significance of each of the channels. Conference mixer can send out samples containing the audio or voice data for a period of time e.g. fifty milliseconds to client devices and . The sample may include voice data from all of the active channels only the most significant channels or a fixed number of channels. In addition mixer may send information to the client devices regarding which channels and or which speakers are active in the sample. In some embodiments mixer may be able to provide data regarding samples speakers etc. in real time or near to real time.

In some embodiments mixer as part of MCU may send the mixed sample via one channel e.g. an RTP based channel and the speaker channel information via a separate channel e.g. an HTML communication via a Web server particularly when the participant is using one client device e.g. telephone to participate in the conference provide audio to the conference receive samples from mixer etc. and a different client device e.g. computer to receive information and interface data from mixer regarding the conference. When a client device receives the mixed sample from mixer the client device can play the mixed sample for the participant associated with the client device. When a client device receives the speaker channel information the client device may display some or all of the speaker channel information to the participant associated with the client device.

In some embodiments based on operation of or information from list application or MCU conference mixer may determine the significance of each source e.g. speaker within a channel absolute or relative to the other sources in the same channel and or in different channels or may indicate the most significant source to client devices.

Turning now to a diagram of a graphical user interface according to some embodiments is shown. In particular shown are a variety of windows for invoking various functions. Such a graphical user interface may be implemented on one or more of client devices and . Thus graphical user interface may interact with interactive services unit to control collaboration sessions or with MCU .

Shown are a collaboration interface a phone interface and a buddy list . It is noted that other functional interfaces may be provided. According to some embodiments certain of the interfaces may be based on be similar to or interwork with those provided by Microsoft Windows Messenger or Outlook software.

In some embodiments buddy list may be used to set up instant messaging calls and or multimedia conferences. Phone interface is used to make calls e.g. by typing in a phone number and also allows invocation of supplementary service functions such as transfer forward etc. Collaboration interface allows for viewing the parties to a conference or collaboration and the type of media involved. It is noted that while illustrated in the context of personal computers similar interfaces may be provided for telephones or cellular telephones or PDAs. During a conference or collaboration participants in the conference or collaboration may access or view shared documents or presentations communicate with each other via audio voice data and or video channels etc.

Now referring to a monitor is illustrated that may be used as part of a client device e.g. client device by a user participating initiating or scheduling a conference. Monitor may include a screen on which representative windows or interfaces and may be displayed. In some embodiments monitor may be part of server or part of a client device e.g. . While the windows or interfaces and illustrated in provided individual users or client devices e.g. computer the ability to participate in conferences send instant messages or other communications etc. windows or interfaces and may allow a person using or located at server and or one or more of client computers the ability to establish or change settings for a conference monitor the status of the conference and or perform other functions. In some embodiments some or all of windows and may not be used or displayed and or some or all of windows and might be displayed in conjunction with one or more of windows and .

In some embodiments one or more of windows and may be displayed as part of a community portal that may include one or more Web pages Web sites or other electronic resources that are accessible by users participating in a conference a person or device monitoring controlling or initiating the conference etc. Thus the community portal may include information documents files etc. that are accessible to multiple parties. In some embodiments some or all of the contents of the community portal may be established or otherwise provided by one or more people participating in a conference a person scheduling or coordinating the conference on behalf of one or more other users etc.

As indicated in window may include information regarding a conference in progress the scheduled date of the conference i.e. 1 00 PM on May 1 2003 the number of participants in the conference the number of invitees to the conference etc. Window includes information regarding the four current participants in the conference the communication channels or media established with the four participants etc. For example the participant named Jack Andrews is participating in the conference via video and audio e.g. a Web cam attached to the participant s computer . The participants named Sarah Butterman Lynn Graves and Ted Mannon are participating in the conference via video and audio channels and have IM capabilities activated as well. The participants named Sarah Butterman Lynn Graves and Ted Mannon may use the IM capabilities to communicate with each other or other parties during the conference.

In some embodiments window may display an icon next to a participants name to indicate that the speaker is currently speaking during the conference. For example the placement of icon next to the name Jack Andrews indicates that he is currently speaking. When multiple participants are speaking icons may be placed next to all of the participants currently identified as speaking during the conference. Thus icons may appear next to different names in window and then disappear as different speakers are talking during a conference. In some embodiments icon may flash change colors change size change brightness etc. as further indication that a participant is speaking or is otherwise active in the conference.

As an alternative or an addition to placing an icon next to a participant s name when the participant is speaking during a conference in some embodiments the participant s name may flash change colors change font type or font size be underlined be bolded etc.

Window includes information regarding three people invited to the conference but who are not yet participating in the conference. As illustrated in window the invitee named Terry Jackson has declined to participate the invitee named Jill Wilson is unavailable and server or collaboration system currently is trying to establish a connection or communication channel with the invitee named Pete Olivetti. 

Window includes information regarding documents that may be used by or shared between participants in the conference while the conference is on going. In some embodiments access to and or use of the documents also may be possible prior to and or after the conference.

As stated above embodiments of the present invention disclose presence based automatic conference initiation with minimum conferee requirements. These embodiments enable a user in a presence based communication system to indicate a conference should be automatically initiated when a specified minimum subset of a pre designated list of potential conferees become available.

With reference to implementation of an automatic conference initiation system in an embodiment of the present invention is shown. As discussed in detail above computers A H are operably connected to server through network . As stated above server can collect presence information from users A H. It is noted that only 8 users are shown in however an unlimited number of users could be served without departing from the spirit of the invention. Presence information could be stored in Advanced Services Module or it could be stored on computers . Further as discussed above server could be used for initiating conferences for users A H. This could be handled by Collaboration Module . Embodiments of the present invention disclose how users A H can use presence information to automatically initiate a conference. Implementation of automatic conference initiation system is made with reference to the example below.

User A a presence based telecommunications system user is the manager of an important customer account. Seven of his direct and indirect employees B H work on this account with user A. Users B H are also presence based telecommunications system users. User A often has team conferences with users B H so he has already set up a work group e.g. a pre designated list of users containing users B H.

The important customer is having misgivings about buying a new product. User A would like to discuss these issues with users B H as soon as possible and formulate a sales strategy before competitors interfere and take the case a presence based telecommunications system conference is begun. It is further contemplated that user A could specify the conference should start if the number of conferees or the required conferees requirement is satisfied before starting the conference. Further it is contemplated that a pre determined time limit defaulted or specified by the user could elapse and automatically start the conference without departing from the spirit of the invention.

Now referring to a representative block diagram of a server or controller is illustrated. Server can comprise a single device or computer a networked set or group of devices or computers a workstation mainframe or house computer etc. and may include the components described above in regards to . In some embodiments server may be adapted or operable to implement one or more of the methods disclosed herein. Server also may include some or all of the components discussed above in relation to and or .

Server may include a processor microchip central processing unit or computer that is in communication with or otherwise uses or includes one or more communication ports for communicating with user devices and or other devices. Processor may be operable or adapted to conduct implement or perform one or more of the elements in the methods disclosed herein.

Communication ports may include such things as local area network adapters wireless communication devices Bluetooth technology etc. Server also may include an internal clock element to maintain an accurate time and date for server create time stamps for communications received or sent by server etc.

If desired server may include one or more output devices such as a printer infrared or other transmitter antenna audio speaker display screen or monitor e.g. monitor text to speech converter etc. as well as one or more input devices such as a bar code reader or other optical scanner infrared or other receiver antenna magnetic stripe reader image scanner roller important client s business. Because time is of the essence User A does not want to wait until the regular Tuesday morning conference call to discuss this issue. However users B H are very busy so user A speculates that initiating an impromptu conference is likely to fail to reach a number of users B H.

To circumvent this possibility user A utilizes presence based communication system to initiate an embodiment of the present invention. Utilizing automatic conference initiation program user A begins an automatic conference setup at state . User A can be prompted by graphical user interface to input all conference attendees at state . Since user A has users B H in a work group user A can simply indicate they would like the work group to attend the conference. This action means that when the conference is initiated it will invite all the users B H. User A can then input how many conferees must have a presence status of available before the conference can start at state . For example A would like at least five conferees present before starting the conference

At state user A can input how many users conferees B H must have a presence status of available before the conference can begin. For example user A wants user C and user G among the available members since they have been the lead sales person and systems engineer respectively with this important account for 10 years. User A can also select the method for program to notify user A when the criteria specified is met at state . User A has chosen to be notified by a pop up when the conference is ready to be initiated. However user A could be notified by most any method such as IM SMS email or phone call without departing from the spirit of the invention. User A indicates they are completed setting up the conference initiation rules at state and user A can go back to work perhaps working on the yearly budget.

When set program obtains the presence information for users conferees B H from server at state . Users A H can interact with network . A user may be any entity that may be associated with presence information including a human being an electronic device a computer program or other entity. Users A H may have one or more presence states. Table 1 shows examples of presence states and descriptions of the presence states.

The presence states shown in Table 1 may be applicable to an individual user . The presence states may also be applicable to other entities including aggregate entities such as workgroups group mailboxes or group phone connections. For example a presence state may reflect the availability of a group of customer service representatives in a complaint department.

At state program determines if the required number of conferees B H are available for a conference. This would be based upon conferees presence information. For example if a conferees presence information was listed as available or in office then program would list them as available towards satisfying the requirement of available conferees. Therefore the conferees could be available for a voice call. If the required number of conferees B H were not available then program would proceed to state and determine if a predetermined time limit set by user A expired. If the required number of conferees B H is available program proceeds to state where program determines whether the required conferees are available.

If the required conferees are not available then program proceeds to state where program determines whether a predetermined time limit set by user A has expired. It is fully contemplated that other methods of automatic termination of the conference could be utilized such as time of day end of work day time of week if required conferee is on vacation etc. without departing from the spirit of the invention. If the time limit has not expired then program proceeds to state where it is once again determined if the required number of conferees are available. This assures that no one has become unavailable in the interim. If the time limit has expired then program proceeds to state to terminate the automatic conference request. A notification can be sent to user A to notify them that the conference request failed.

If the required conferees are available then program notifies user A the conference initiator that a conference can begin at state . As stated above this notice can come in any form such as IM SMS pop up or email without departing from the spirit of the invention. User A then has the option to not accept the automatic invitation to the conference in which case program proceeds to state to terminate the automatic conference request. Or user A has the option to proceed with the conference at state in which ball touch pad joystick touch screen microphone computer keyboard computer mouse etc.

In addition to the above server may include a memory or data storage device which may be or include memory previously discussed above to store information software databases documents communications device drivers etc. Memory or data storage device preferably comprises an appropriate combination of magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory and may include for example Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM a tape drive flash memory a floppy disk drive a Zip disk drive a compact disc and or a hard disk. Server also may include separate ROM and RAM .

Processor and data storage device in server each may be for example i located entirely within a single computer or other computing device or ii connected to each other by a remote communication medium such as a serial port cable telephone line or radio frequency transceiver. In one embodiment server may comprise one or more computers that are connected to a remote server computer for maintaining databases.

A conventional personal computer or workstation with sufficient memory and processing capability may be used as server . In one embodiment server operates as or includes a Web server for an Internet environment. Server may be capable of high volume transaction processing performing a significant number of mathematical calculations in processing communications and database searches. A Pentium microprocessor such as the Pentium III or IV microprocessor manufactured by Intel Corporation may be used for processor . Equivalent processors are available from Motorola Inc. AMD or Sun Microsystems Inc. Processor also may comprise one or more microprocessors computers computer systems etc.

Software may be resident and operating or operational on server . The software may be stored on data storage device and may include a control program for operating the server databases etc. Control program may control processor . Processor preferably performs instructions of control program and thereby operates in accordance with the embodiments described herein and particularly in accordance with the methods described in detail herein. Control program may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. Control program furthermore includes program elements that may be necessary such as an operating system a database management system and device drivers for allowing processor to interface with peripheral devices databases etc. Appropriate program elements are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

Server also may include or store information regarding users user devices conferences alarm settings documents communications etc. For example information regarding one or more conferences may be stored in a conference information database for use by server or another device or entity. Information regarding one or more users e.g. invitees to a conference participants to a conference may be stored in a user information database for use by server or another device or entity and information regarding one or more channels to client devices may be stored in a channel information database for use by server or another device or entity. In some embodiments some or all of one or more of the databases may be stored or mirrored remotely from server .

In some embodiments the instructions of the control program may be read into a main memory from another computer readable medium such as from ROM to RAM . Execution of sequences of the instructions in the control program causes processor to perform the process elements described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of some or all of the methods described herein. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

Processor communication port clock output device input device data storage device ROM and RAM may communicate or be connected directly or indirectly in a variety of ways. For example processor communication port clock output device input device data storage device ROM and RAM may be connected via a bus .

While specific implementations and hardware configurations for server have been illustrated it should be noted that other implementations and hardware configurations are possible and that no specific implementation or hardware configuration is needed. Thus not all of the components illustrated in may be needed for server implementing the methods disclosed herein.

The methods described herein may be embodied as a computer program developed using an object oriented language that allows the modeling of complex systems with modular objects to create abstractions that are representative of real world physical objects and their interrelationships. However it would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention as described herein could be implemented in many different ways using a wide range of programming techniques as well as general purpose hardware systems or dedicated controllers. In addition many if not all of the elements for the methods described above are optional or can be combined or performed in one or more alternative orders or sequences without departing from the scope of the present invention and the claims should not be construed as being limited to any particular order or sequence unless specifically indicated.

Each of the methods described above can be performed on a single computer computer system microprocessor etc. In addition two or more of the elements in each of the methods described above could be performed on two or more different computers computer systems microprocessors etc. some or all of which may be locally or remotely configured. The methods can be implemented in any sort or implementation of computer software program sets of instructions code ASIC or specially designed chips logic gates or other hardware structured to directly effect or implement such software programs sets of instructions or code. The computer software program sets of instructions or code can be storable writeable or savable on any computer usable or readable media or other program storage device or media such as a floppy or other magnetic or optical disk magnetic or optical tape CD ROM DVD punch cards paper tape hard disk drive Zip disk flash or optical memory card microprocessor solid state memory device RAM EPROM or ROM.

It is believed that the present invention and many of its attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

