---

title: Superhydrophobic fibers and methods of preparation and use thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to fibers exhibiting a water contact angle of above 150° and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15°, methods of producing the same, and applications thereof. The present invention further relates to superhydrophobic fiber mats, methods of producing the same, and applications thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08574713&OS=08574713&RS=08574713
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 08574713
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060309
---
This Application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 659 907 filed Mar. 10 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support awarded by the Army Research Office under ARO Grant No. DAAD19 02 D 0002. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to fibers exhibiting a water contact angle of above 150 and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15 methods of producing the same and applications thereof. The present invention further relates to superhydrophobic fiber mats methods of producing the same and applications thereof.

Electrospinning is a versatile method to produce polymer fibers with diameters in the micron sub micron and nano 

Block copolymers offer an alternative method by which internal structure can be induced in electrospun fibers via microphase separation. In bulk block copolymers are known to form microphase separated structures such as spheres cylinders gyroids and lamellae depending on molecular weight volume fractions of components and the degree of immiscibility of the different polymer blocks. In thin films it has been shown that surface forces and confinement effects are strong enough to alter the phase separation behavior. However no such information is currently available on microphase separation in a confined cylindrical sub micrometer sized and fiber like geometry. Electrospinning of block copolymers is therefore not only promising for applications involving surface chemistry drug delivery and multi functional textiles but is also of intrinsic scientific interest.

The wetting behavior of a solid surface is important for various commercial applications and depends strongly on both the surface energy or chemistry and the surface roughness. Currently surfaces with a water contact angle above 150 are considered to be superhydrophobic and are the subject of great interest for their water proof and self cleaning usages. There is a need to develope fiber forming processes and products that would demonstrate the desired surface characteristics such as superhydrophobicity as well as other properties such as mechanical strength and integrity.

In one embodiment this invention provides a fiber comprising a copolymer wherein said fiber exhibits a water contact angle of above 150 and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15 .

In one embodiment this invention provides a superhydrophobic fiber mat wherein said mat comprises fibers comprising a copolymer and wherein said mat exhibits a water contact angle of above 150 and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15 .

In one embodiment this invention provides a method for preparing a superhydrophobic fiber or fibers the method comprising the step of electrospinning a solution comprising a copolymer wherein said copolymer comprises a component comprising a silicon structure and having a surface energy of less than 1 mJ m said solution exhibits conductivity surface tension and viscoelasticity fluidic properties and whereby said electrospinning produces a superhydrophobic fiber or fibers exhibiting a water contact angle of above 150 and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15 .

In one embodiment the method further comprises the step of producing a superhydrophobic mat comprising said fibers.

In one embodiment the invention provides an article of manufacture comprising a fiber or mat of this invention.

In one embodiment this invention provides a fiber comprising a copolymer wherein said fiber exhibits a water contact angle of above 150 and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15 .

In one embodiment this invention provides a superhydrophobic fiber mat wherein said fiber comprises a copolymer and wherein said mat exhibits a water contact angle of above 150 and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15 .

In one embodiment of this invention the water contact angle may be above 160 . In another embodiment the water contact angle may be about 163 . In another embodiment the water contact angle may be between 160 165 . In another embodiment the water contact angle may be between 150 160 . In another embodiment the water contact angle may be between 160 165 . In another embodiment the water contact angle may be between 160 170 . In another embodiment the water contact angle may be between 160 175 .

In one embodiment of this invention the water contact angle hysteresis may be between 10 15 . In another embodiment the water contact angle hysteresis may be between 10 14 . In another embodiment the water contact angle hysteresis may be between 8 13 . In another embodiment the water contact angle hysteresis may be between 6 12 . In another embodiment the water contact angle hysteresis may be between 5 10 . In another embodiment the water contact angle hysteresis may be between 0 5 .

In one embodiment of this invention the mat may be electrospun. In another embodiment the mat may exhibit wettability properties. In another embodiment the mat may be composed solely of fibers. In another embodiment the fibers within the mat are uniform. In another embodiment the mat may be composed solely of fibers randomly oriented within a plane. In one embodiment of this invention the mat may exhibit a water contact angle of above 160 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle of about 163 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle of between 160 165 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle of between 150 160 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle of between 160 165 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle of between 160 170 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle of between 160 175 .

In one embodiment of this invention the mat may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 10 15 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 10 14 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 8 13 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 6 12 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 5 10 . In another embodiment the mat may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 0 5 .

In one embodiment of this invention the mat may exhibit an isotropic nature of the contact angle contact angle hysteresis or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment of this invention the mat may exhibit a non isotropic nature of the contact angle contact angle hysteresis or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment of this invention the mat may exhibit pore sizes of between 0.01 100 micron. In another embodiment the mat may exhibit pore sizes of between 0.1 100 micron. In another embodiment the mat may exhibit pore sizes of between 0.1 50 micron. In another embodiment the mat may exhibit pore sizes of between 0.1 10 micron. In another embodiment the mat may exhibit pore sizes of between 0.1 5 micron. In another embodiment the mat may exhibit pore sizes of between 0.1 2 micron. In another embodiment the mat may exhibit pore sizes of between 0.2 1.5 micron. In another embodiment the pore size may be non uniform. In another embodiment the pore size may be uniform.

In one embodiment of this invention the diameter of the fiber or in another embodiment fibers in the mat which in some comprise only some fibers or in other embodiments comprises fibers mostly having a diameter of between 1 nm 5 micron or in another embodiment the diameter is between 1 nm 500 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 1 nm 100 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 100 nm 300 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 100 nm 500 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 50 nm 400 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 200 nm 500 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 300 nm 600 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 400 nm 700 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 500 nm 800 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 500 nm 1000 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 1000 nm 1500 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 1500 nm 3000 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 2000 nm 5000 nm or in another embodiment the diameter is between 3000 nm 4000 nm.

In one embodiment of this invention the fiber may include inter alia a component wherein the surface energy of the component is below 5 mJ m. In one embodiment of this invention the fiber may include inter alia a component wherein the surface energy of the component is below 1 mJ m. In another embodiment the surface energy of the component is between 0.1 1 mJ m. In another embodiment the surface energy of the component is between 0.1 0.5 mJ m. In another embodiment the surface energy of the component is between 0.5 0.9 mJ m.

In one embodiment of this invention the component may segregate to the surface of the fiber. In another embodiment the component may be a part of the copolymer. In another embodiment the component may include inter alia a silicon structure. In another embodiment the silicon structure may be inter alia a resin linear branched cross linked cross linkable silicone structure or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the silicon structure may include inter alia poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS . In another embodiment the silicon structure may include inter alia fluorine.

In one embodiment of this invention the copolymer may include inter alia polyisobutylene polyolefin polystyrene polyacrylate polyurethane polyester polyamide polyetherimide any derivative thereof or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the copolymers according to the invention may be substituted or unsubstituted. In another embodiment the copolymers according to the invention may be saturated or unsaturated. In another embodiment the copolymers according to the invention may be linear or branched. In another embodiment the copolymers according to the invention may be alkylated. In another embodiment alkylated may be methylated. In another embodiment the copolymers according to the invention may be halogenated. In another embodiment the copolymers according to the invention may be chlorinated. In another embodiment the polyolefin may include inter alia polyisobutylene polyethylene polypropylene or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the copolymers according to the invention may be fluorinated. In another embodiment the copolymer may include inter alia poly alphamethyl styrene.

In another embodiment the copolymer may include inter alia a block graft star or random copolymer. In another embodiment the block copolymer may include inter alia poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS or in another embodiment poly dimethylsiloxane co etherimide .

In one embodiment of this invention the molecular weight of the PS PDMS may be higher than about 100K. In another embodiment the molecular weight of the PS PDMS may range between about 100K 5000K. In another embodiment the molecular weight of the PS PDMS may range between about 100K 1000K. In another embodiment the molecular weight of the PS PDMS may range between about 100K 500K. In another embodiment the molecular weight of the PS PDMS may range between about 200K 300K. In another embodiment the molecular weight of the PS PDMS may be higher than about 250K. In another embodiment the molecular weight of the PS PDMS may be 150K or about 150K. In one embodiment the term about refers to a deviance from the stated value or range of values by 1 or in another embodiment by 2 or in another embodiment by 5 or in another embodiment by 7 or in another embodiment by 10 or in another embodiment by 13 or in another embodiment by 15 or in another embodiment by 18 or in another embodiment by 20 .

In one embodiment of this invention the fiber may include inter alia poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS blocks non uniformly dispersed within a polystyrene PS matrix. In one embodiment of this invention the fiber may include inter alia polystyrene polydimethylsiloxane copolymer blocks non uniformly dispersed within a siloxane matrix.

In one embodiment of this invention the copolymer may include inter alia polystyrene PS . In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the copolymer may be between 0.05 0.9. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the copolymer may be between 0.1 0.6. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the copolymer may be between 0.3 0.5. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the copolymer may be between 0.4 0.9. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the copolymer may be 0.45. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the mixture may be between 0.1 0.9. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the mixture may be between 0.3 0.6. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the mixture may be 0.57. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the mixture may be 0.813. In another embodiment the volume fraction of PS in the mixture may be 0.05 0.9 and exhibit may exhibit a cylindrical morphology upon microphase separation in the bulk.

In one embodiment of this invention the poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS blocks may segregate to the surface of the fiber.

In one embodiment of this invention the poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS blocks may be aligned along the fibers axis.

In one embodiment this invention provides a superhydrophobic nonwoven mat including submicron diameter fibers of poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS block copolymers blended with homopolymer polystyrene PS . In one embodiment the PS PDMS system of this invention has a larger Flory interaction parameter compared to the conventional styrene diene block copolymers. In one embodiment the PS PDMS system of this invention exhibits a pronounced surface activity of the PDMS block. In one embodiment of this invention the Flory interaction of the PS PDMS system and the pronounced surface activity of the PDMS block facilitate the microphase separation in the electrospun fibers even without any post treatment. In one embodiment the superhydrophobicity of the electrospun mats according to the invention may be determined by static and dynamic contact angle attributed to both the surface roughness and surface excess of the PDMS blocks. In one embodiment the superhydrophobicity of the electrospun mats according to the invention may be obtained without the presence of microspheres within the mat. In one embodiment the superhydrophobicity of the electrospun mats according to the invention may exhibit an isotropic nature of the contact angle hysteresis. In another embodiment the isotropic nature of the contact angle hysteresis may be attributed to the random in plane arrangement of fibers which may mitigate pinning effects on the liquid drop. In one embodiment the high surface tension at the air polymer interface and or the confinement of the microphase separated structures to the fiber geometry and or the aligning effect of the elongational flow according to the invention may have some effects on the morphologies of the block copolymers.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method for preparing a fiber wherein the fiber includes a copolymer and wherein the fiber exhibits a water contact angle of above 150 and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15 the method may include inter alia the step of electrospinning a solution including inter alia the copolymer.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method for preparing a superhydrophobic fiber mat wherein the fiber includes a copolymer and wherein the mat exhibits a water contact angle of above 150 and water contact angle hysteresis of below 15 the method may include inter alia the step of electrospinning a solution including inter alia the copolymer.

In one embodiment of this invention the concentration of the poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS in the solution is 21 . In another embodiment the concentration of the poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS in the solution is about 21 . In another embodiment the concentration of the poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS in the solution is between 5 10 . In another embodiment the concentration of the poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS in the solution is between 10 20 . In another embodiment the concentration of the poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS in the solution is between 20 25 . In another embodiment the concentration of the poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS in the solution is between 15 25 . In another embodiment the concentration of the poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS in the solution is between 20 30 . In another embodiment the concentration of the poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane PS PDMS in the solution is between 20 40 .

In some embodiments the polystyrene polydimethylsiloxane copolymer is mixed with a siloxane resin such as MQ siloxane resin Dow Corning 407 at various ratios for example 18 5 15 10 12 12 copolymer to resin or in another embodiment about 10 25 5 15 copolymer to resin ratio. In some embodiments the total solids level is 25 or in another embodiment 23 or in another embodiment 24 or in another embodiment about 18 30 . In one embodiment the mixture is dissolved in 3 1 THF DMF solvent.

In one embodiment of this invention the solution includes a solvent. In another embodiment the solvent is an organic solvent. In another embodiment the solvent may include inter alia tetrahydrofuran diethylformamide or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the solvent may include inter alia tetrahydrofuran and diethylformamide in a ratio of 3 1. In another embodiment the solvent may include inter alia chloroform toluene or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the solvent comprises chloroform diethylformamide in a ratio of 4 1.

In one embodiment of this invention the solution may include additives. In another embodiment the additives may include inter alia inorganic salts organic salts surfactants or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the additives may include inter alia any material that increases the conductivity of the solution. In another embodiment the additives may include inter alia any material that decreases the surface tension of the solution. In another embodiment the additives may include inter alia a dye. In another embodiment the additives may include inter alia a colorant. In another embodiment the additives may include inter alia a labeling agent.

In one embodiment of this invention the solution exhibits conductivity surface tension and viscoelasticity fluidic properties. In one embodiment of this invention the zero shear rate viscosity of the solution may be between 0.1 10 PaS. In another embodiment the zero shear rate viscosity of the solution may be between 0.5 10 PaS. In another embodiment the zero shear rate viscosity of the solution may be between 1 10 PaS. In another embodiment the zero shear rate viscosity of the solution may be between 5 8 PaS. In another embodiment the zero shear rate viscosity of the solution may be about 6 PaS.

In one embodiment of this invention the extensional viscosity of the solution may be between 0.1 100 000 PaS. In another embodiment the extensional viscosity of the solution may be between 100 1000 PaS. In another embodiment the extensional viscosity of the solution may be between 1 100 PaS. In another embodiment the extensional viscosity of the solution may be between 5 50 PaS. In another embodiment the extensional viscosity of the solution may be about 10 PaS.

In one embodiment of this invention the solution conductivity may be between 0.01 25 mS m. In another embodiment the solution conductivity may be between 0.1 10 mS m. In another embodiment the solution conductivity may be between 0.1 5 mS m. In another embodiment the solution conductivity may be between 0.1 1 mS m. In another embodiment the solution conductivity may be between 0.1 0.5 mS m. In another embodiment the solution conductivity may be about 0.3 mS m.

In one embodiment of this invention the surface tension of the solution may be between 10 100 mN m. In another embodiment the surface tension of the solution may be between 20 80 mN m. surface tension of the solution may be between 20 50 mN m. In another embodiment the surface tension of the solution may be about 30 mN m.

In one embodiment of this invention the dielectric constant of the solution may be between 1 100. In another embodiment the dielectric constant of the solution may be between 5 50. In another embodiment the dielectric constant of the solution may be between 10 70. In another embodiment the dielectric constant of the solution may be between 1 20. In another embodiment the dielectric constant of the solution may be about 10.

In one embodiment of this invention the zero shear rate viscosity of the solution may be 6 Pa S the extensional viscosity of the solution may be 10 Pa S the solution conductivity may be 0.3 mS m and the surface tension of the solution may be 30 mN m.

In one embodiment of this invention the molecular weight of the PS PDMS may be about 240K the concentration of the PS PDMS in the solution may be about 21 and the solution includes THF and DMF in a ratio of 3 1.

In one embodiment of this invention the voltage applied in the electrospinning may range between 5 50 KV. In another embodiment the voltage applied in the electrospinning may range between 10 40 KV. In another embodiment the voltage applied in the electrospinning may range between 15 35 KV. In another embodiment the voltage applied in the electrospinning may range between 20 30 KV. In another embodiment the voltage applied in the electrospinning may be about 30 KV.

In one embodiment of this invention the distance between electrodes in the electrospinning may range between 10 100 cm. In another embodiment the distance between electrodes in the electrospinning may range between 20 75 cm. In another embodiment the distance between electrodes in the electrospinning may range between 30 60 cm. In another embodiment the distance between electrodes in the electrospinning may range between 40 50 cm. In another embodiment the distance between electrodes in the electrospinning may be about 50 cm.

In one embodiment of this invention the flow rate in the electrospinning may range between 0.005 0.5 ml min. In another embodiment the flow rate in the electrospinning may range between 0.005 0.1 ml min. the flow rate in the electrospinning may range between 0.01 0.1 ml min. the flow rate in the electrospinning may range between 0.02 0.1 ml min. the flow rate in the electrospinning may be about 0.05 ml min.

In one embodiment of this invention the electric current in the electrospinning may range between 10 10 000 nA. In another embodiment the electric current in the electrospinning may range between 10 1000 nA. In another embodiment the electric current in the electrospinning may range between 50 500 nA. In another embodiment the electric current in the electrospinning may range between 75 100 nA. In another embodiment the electric current in the electrospinning may be around 85 nA.

In one embodiment of this invention the voltage applied in the electrospinning may be about 30 KV the flow rate may be the electrospinning is about 0.05 mL min and the electric current in the electrospinning may be about 85 nA.

In one embodiment electrospinning may be conducted with the aid of any suitable apparatus as will be known to one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the methods of this invention may further include post treatment of the fibers. In one embodiment the methods of this invention may further include annealing of the fibers. In another embodiment the annealing of the fibers may enhance the hydrophobicity for these fibers. In another embodiment the annealing of the fibers may enhance the regularity of the microphases for these fibers.

In one embodiment this invention provides a composition including any fiber according to the invention.

In one embodiment this invention provides an article of manufacture including any fiber according to this invention. In another embodiment this invention provides an article of manufacture including any mat according to this invention. In another embodiment the article of manufacture may be inter alia a waterproof substance. In another embodiment the article of manufacture may be inter alia a water resistant substance. In another embodiment the article of manufacture may be inter alia a self cleaning substance. In another embodiment the article of manufacture may be inter alia a water draining substance. In another embodiment the article of manufacture may be inter alia a coating substance. In another embodiment the coating substance reduces drag. In another embodiment the coating substance reduces drag in a gas in a liquid or in both. In another embodiment the gas may be air. In another embodiment the liquid may be water.

In another embodiment of this invention the article of manufacture may be inter alia manufacture is a fabric. In another embodiment the fabric may be inter alia a breathable fabric. In another embodiment the fabric may have inter alia a filtration functionality. In another embodiment the fabric may have inter alia an absorptive functionality. In another embodiment the fabric may be inter alia a non woven fabric. In another embodiment the fabric may be inter alia a waterproof fabric. In another embodiment the fabric may be inter alia a water resistant fabric.

In one embodiment of this invention the fabric may be a superhydrophobic fabric. In another embodiment the fabric may be an electrospun fibrous fabric. In one embodiment of this invention the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle of above 160 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle of about 163 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle of between 160 165 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle of between 150 160 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle of between 160 165 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle of between 160 170 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle of between 160 175 .

In one embodiment of this invention the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 10 15 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 10 14 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 8 13 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 6 12 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 5 10 . In another embodiment the fabric may exhibit a water contact angle hysteresis of between 0 5 .

In another embodiment of this invention the article of manufacture may be inter alia a drug delivery system. In another embodiment the article of manufacture may be inter alia a bandage or patch. In another embodiment the bandage or patch may include inter alia a drug.

In one embodiment of the invention the term contact angle may refer to the angle on the liquid side tangential line draw through the three phase boundary where a liquid gas and solid intersect.

In one embodiment of the invention the term static contact angle may refer to the contact angle measured of a Sessile drop on a solid substance when the three phase line is not moving.

In one embodiment of the invention the term dynamic contact angle may be divided into advancing contact angle and receding contact angle which may refer to according to embodiments of the invention to the contact angles measured when the three phase line is in controlled movement by wetting the solid by a liquid or by withdrawing the liquid over a pre wetted solid respectively. In another embodiment the liquid is water.

In one embodiment of the invention the term contact angle hysteresis may refer to the difference between the measured advancing and receding contact angles.

In one embodiment of the invention the term wettability may refer to the process when a liquid spreads on wets a solid substrate. In another embodiment wettability may be estimated by determining the contact angle.

In one embodiment of the invention the term surface tension may refer to the measurement of the cohesive excess energy present at a gas liquid interface.

In one embodiment of the invention the term viscoelasticity may refer to a combination of viscous and elastic properties in a material with the relative contribution of each being dependent on time temperature stress and strain rate.

In one embodiment of the invention the terms viscosity or viscous may refer to the resistance of a material to flow under stress.

The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate some embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed however as limiting the scope of the invention.

A Poly styrene co dimethylsiloxane diblock copolymer was synthesized at Dow Corning Corp. laboratories by sequential controlled anionic polymerization of styrene and then hexamethylcyclotrisiloxane D as shown in Rosati D. Perrin M. Navard P. Harabagiu V. Pinteala M. Simionescu B. C. 1998 31 4301 Pantazis D. Chalari I. Hadjichristidis N. 2003 36 3783 . All operations were carried out in a Schlenk line operating under a vacuum pump and dry nitrogen or argon.

The size exclusion chromatography SEC chromatogram of PS PDMS is shown in . Peak 1 was identified as the copolymer with Mn 238000 polydispersity pdi 1.16 and accounts for 76.6 of the sample. Peak 2 was identified as residual PS homopolymer Mn 114000 and accounts for the remaining 23.4 . Assuming that the Mn of the PS block in the copolymer is also 114 k the composition of the copolymer is 114 k 124 k. The volume fraction of PS in the copolymer is 0.45. The volume fraction of PS in the mixture is 0.57 which exhibits a cylindrical morphology upon microphase separation in the bulk as confirmed by the TEM image of the solution cast film in Hasegawa H. Hashimoto T. 1996 . Self assembly and morphology of block copolymer system. In 2 ed. S. L. Aggarwal and S. Russo p. 497. Pergamon London . Addition of a homopolymer to a near symmetric block copolymer causes swelling of the corresponding block chain resulting in a curved interface instead of a flat interface to attain a favorable conformational entropy and a uniform packing density .

A 21 wt solution of the above material was prepared by dissolution in a 3 1 mixture by weight of tetrahydrofuran THF dimethylformamide DMF Aldrich . It formed a milky gel like solution that was stable no further solidification or precipitation takes place during storage at room temperature. This solution was electrospun using a parallel plate setup as described previously Shin Y. M. Hohman M. M. Brenner M. P. Rutledge G. C. 2001 42 9955 .

The electrical potential solution flow rate the protrusion of the spinnerette from the upper plate and the distance between the capillary tip and the collector were adjusted so that spinning was stable and dry nanofibers were obtained Table 1 .

A JEOL 6060SEM JEOL Ltd Japan scanning electron microscope SEM was used to observe the general features of the fibers. The fibers were sputter coated with a 2 3 nm layer of gold for imaging using a Desk II cold sputter etch unit Denton Vacuum LLC NJ . The fiber diameters were determined using AnalySIS image processing software Soft Imaging System Corp. Lakewood USA .

A JEOL JEM200 CX JEOL Ltd Japan transmission electron microscope TEM was used to observe internal features of the fibers. For lateral viewing the fibers were deposited directly onto a copper TEM grid. For axial viewing the fibers were fixed in a glycol methacrylate based embedding system. JB 4 Plus Embedding Kit TED PELLA. INC. and then sectioned into 100 nm slices using an ultramicrotome RMC Scientific Corp. Tucson Ariz. with a diamond knife. No staining was necessary as the intrinsic difference in electron density of PS block and PDMS block provided adequate contrast.

The thermal transitions in the as electrospun fibers of the block copolymer were characterized using a Q1000 modulated differential scanning calorimeter DSC TA Instrument Inc. DE . The measurements were carried out under a nitrogen atmosphere and the sample was scanned for two cycles from 100 to 200 C. with a rate of 10 C. per minute.

Surface chemistry of the fibers was characterized using a Kratos Axis Ultra X ray photoelectron spectrometer XPS Kratos Analytical Manchester with a monochromatized A1 K X ray source. The XPS signals from the silicon and oxygen of the PDMS block were used to distinguish the two polymer blocks and to obtain the composition of the fiber surface.

The contact angle of water on the electrospun mat was measured using a Contact Angle Meter G10 Kruss Germany . The final result was obtained by averaging at least 4 separate runs. Contact angle hysteresis was obtained by the sessile drop method Lau K. K. S. Bico J. Teo K. B. K. Chhowalla M. Amaratunga G. A. J. Milne W. I. McKinley G. H. Gleason K. K. 2003 3 1701 . To study the sliding behavior water droplets were dripped on a fiber mat tilted at 17 and the motion of the droplets was observed using a video recorder.

The PS PDMS diblocks are expected to be very strongly segregated due to the non polar nature of the PDMS block. A rough estimate for the Flory interaction parameter is obtained by group contribution methods 100 cm mol RT Bristow G. M. Watson W. F. 1958 54 1731 where 18.6 J cm and 15.4 J cm are the Hildebrandt solubility parameters for PS and PDMS respectively Eds J. Brandrup and E. H. Immergut . 3rd Edn Wiley New York 1989 P. VII 557 . For a degree of polymerization N 2771 N 1130 well in excess of N 10.5 required for microphase separation in a symmetric diblock copolymer according to mean field theory Leibler L. Macromolecules 1980 13 1602 .

Strong segregation of the PS and PDMS blocks is further evidenced by the glass transition temperature Tg of 105 C. exhibited in the DSC curve of . This transition temperature is characteristic of unblended PS. The glass transition of PDMS is 125 C. The rule of mixtures Gordon M. Taylor J. S. J. Appl Chem. 1952 2 493 would predict a glass transition of about 5 C. if the PS and PDMS were well mixed no such peak is observed in . The endotherm around 40 C. during heating is attributed to the crystal melting point of PDMS while the exotherm around 75 C. during cooling could be due to crystallization Chu J. H. Rangarajan P. LaMonte Adams J. Register R. A. 1995 36 1569 .

From the material composition the average atomic ratio of carbon to silicon is about 8.8. According to the XPS data shown in the material layer within several nanometers of the fiber surface exhibits a carbon silicon ratio of only 5.5 indicative of surface enrichment in the PDMS component. The surface tensions of PDMS and PS are 19.9 mN m and 40.7 mN m respectively Chan C. M. Polymer surface Modification and Characterization 1st ed. 1994 Hanser Publishers Munich . Since the PDMS block has lower surface tension it is more likely to segregate to the fiber surface. A similar enrichment of PDMS was reported for the films of PS PS b PDMS blends Lee H. Archer L. A. Macromolecules 2001 34 4572 . Such a surface segregation of fluorine in electrospun fibers of poly methyl methacylate co tetrahydroperfluorooctyl acrylate was also observed Deitzel J. M. Kosik W. McKnight S. H. Beck Tan N. C. Desimone J. M. Crette S. 2002 43 1025 . The reason that the fiber surface contained not just pure PDMS but also PS may be in accordance with embodiments of this invention the fact that solidification during the electrospinning takes place so fast usually on the order of milliseconds that PDMS blocks do not have enough time to segregate completely to the surface. The reason that the surface enrichment of PDMS is not apparent in the TEM axial images may be in accordance with embodiments of this invention that TEM only yields pictures of individual cross sections while XPS averages results over the surfaces of all the fibers. The confinement and diameter of the fiber also has an effect on the microphase separation. For example large fibers tend to contain more PDMS cylinders inside than the small ones. If the diameter is not an integer multiple of the preferred domain spacing the domains must reorganize to accommodate the incommensuration.

The contact angle measurement and the sliding behavior of the water on the PS PDMS electrospun mat are shown A and B. The contact angle was as high as 163 which is much larger than the contact angle of 112 for pure PDMS films Gillmor S. D. et al. 2th Annual International IEEE EMBS Special Topic Conference on Microtechnologies in medicine Biology 2002 Poster 225 51 .

The advancing and receding contact angles measured by the sessile drop method were 164 and 149 respectively giving a hysteresis of 15 . The wetting behavior of the PS PDMS fiber mat were compared with that of a pure PS fiber mat with comparable fiber sizes average diameter 300 nm and pore size distribution pore sizes ranging from 0.200 to 1.5 mm as determined by Hg porosimetry Quantachrome Instruments Poremaster 33 . It was found that the PS fiber mat not only had a smaller contact angle 138 but also showed a sliding behavior characterized by a much bigger contact area between the mat and the droplet than in the case of PS PDMS block copolymer fiber as shown on C and D. From these comparisons it can be concluded in accordance with embodiments of this invention that the superhydrophobicity observed for the PS PDMS fiber mat is the combined result of both the roughness of the surface and the excess concentration of PDMS on the surface.

Table 2 presents the composition and conditions for the preparation of additional electrospun superhydrophobic fibers. A number of additional fibers and mats comprising the same were produced using various copolymers which yielded a water contact angle of above 150 .

Some embodiments of mats were prepared as described hereinabove via electrospinning of a polystyrene polydimethylsiloxane copolymer solution at a concentration of 12.95 in Chloroform yielding a fibrous mat with a contact angle of 170.5 degrees.

Some embodiments of mats of this invention were prepared via electrospinning of the polystyrene polydimethylsiloxane copolymer described herein mixed in various ratios of copolymer to MQ siloxane resin Dow Corning 407 dissolved in 3 1 THF DMF solvent electrospun to form a fibrous mat

Some embodiments of mats of this invention were prepared via electrospinning of a polystyrene polydimethylsiloxane copolymer having a total molecular weight of 153000 and a volume ratio of polystyrene 0.813 dissolved in a 4 1 chloroform DMF solvent mixture. Fibrous mat with a water contact angle of 168 were obtained. Based on this example copolymers with a volume percent of as little as 19 of silicone produce superhydrophobic fibrous mats.

Some embodiments of mats of this invention were prepared via electrospinning of a poly dimethylsiloxane etherimide copolymer with 35 40 polydimethylsiloxane electrospun from a 15 weight percent solution in chloroform to form a fibrous mat which had a water contact angle of 157.8 .

These results indicate that a number of superhydrophobic fibers and mats can be prepared according to the methods of this invention.

