---

title: Electronic acquisition of a hand formed expression and a context of the expression
abstract: Embodiments include an apparatus, device, method, and computer program product. In an embodiment, a device includes a handheld writing device that includes a writing element, and a writing detector module operable to generate information indicative of a handwriting movement of the writing element. The device also includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290313&OS=08290313&RS=08290313
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08290313
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061011
---
The present application is related to claims the earliest available effective filing date s from e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications claims benefits under 35 U.S.C. 119 e for provisional patent applications and incorporates by reference in its entirety all subject matter of the herein listed application s the present application also claims the earliest available effective filing date s from and also incorporates by reference in its entirety all subject matter of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the herein listed application s . The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. The present applicant entity has provided below a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant entity understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part. Notwithstanding the foregoing applicant entity understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence applicant entity is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

An embodiment provides a device. The handheld writing device includes a writing element and a writing detector module operable to generate information indicative of a handwriting movement of the writing element. The device also includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. The handheld writing device may further include a recognition module operable to generate information indicative of a human readable content of the hand driven movement of the writing element in response to the information indicative of the hand driven movement of the writing element. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides an electronic pen device. The electronic pen device includes a generally elongated body and a writing element extending from the body. The pen includes a writing detector module operable to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element. The pen further includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. The electronic pen may also include a communications module. The electronic pen may further include a communications module operable to transmit the information indicative of a handwriting movement of a writing element and to transmit the information indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the writing movement of the writing element. The electronic pen may also include a digital storage medium. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides an apparatus. The apparatus includes operability to mark a document and generate an indicator of a position of the mark relative to an existing character of the document. The apparatus also includes operability to save the mark and the indicator within the pen. In addition to the foregoing other apparatus embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a device. The device includes a pen configured to mark relative to an existing character of a document based at least in part on a marking position relative to the existing character of the document wherein the mark and an indicator of the marking position are saved within the pen. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides an apparatus. The apparatus includes a stylus configured to write on a surface and a position sensor operable to generate information indicative of handwriting movements of the stylus relative to the surface. The apparatus also includes an imaging element operable to generate information representing at least a portion of a content displayed from the surface proximate to the handwriting movements. In addition to the foregoing other apparatus embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes generating in a handheld device a first information indicative of a handwriting movement of a writing element physically associated with the handheld device. The method further includes generating in the handheld device a second information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes marking at least a portion of a document in response to a hand driven movement of a handheld marking device and generating in the handheld marking device a first data set indicative of the marking. The method further includes generating in the handheld marking device a second data set indicative of a content portion of the document proximate to the marking. The method may include saving the first data set indicative of the marking in a digital storage medium physically associated with the handheld device. The method may also include saving the second data set indicative of a content portion of the document proximate to the marking in a digital storage medium physically associated with the handheld device. The method may further include transmitting from the handheld marking device the first data set indicative of the marking and the second data set indicative of a content portion of the document proximate to marking. The method may include transmitting the first data set indicative of the marking from the handheld device. The method may also include transmitting the second data set indicative of a content portion of the document proximate to the marking from the handheld device. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product encodes a computer program for executing a computer process in a handheld computing device. The computer process includes generating in the handheld device a first data set indicative of a handwriting movement of a writing element physically associated with the handheld device. The computer process also includes generating in the handheld device a second data set indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. The computer program product may include saving in a digital storage medium physically associated with the handheld device the first data set indicative of a handwriting movement and the second data set indicative of a content portion of the document proximate to the marking. The computer program process may also include transmitting the first data set indicative of the marking. The computer program process may also include transmitting the second data set indicative of a content portion of the document proximate to the marking. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

In addition to the foregoing various other embodiments are set forth and described in the text e.g. claims and or detailed description and or drawings of the present application.

The foregoing is a summary and thus by necessity contains simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects inventive features and advantages of the devices and or processes described herein as defined solely by the claims will become apparent in the detailed description set forth herein.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the several figures like referenced numerals identify like elements. The detailed description and the drawings illustrate exemplary embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the claimed subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

Readers often make marks such as written annotations on a portion of printed materials such as text and illustrations using common writing instruments such as handheld pens and pencils. Some readers may wish to save their annotations and the portion of the printed material or context to which the annotation was directed in electronic form for later viewing and or searching. Further other readers may wish to create electronic files that include at least two annotations they made to a printed material over time such as their annotations to a favorite book or seminal work. A writing instrument operable to electronically acquire both annotations and a context of the annotations may provide an advantage to readers.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface which may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface having a character key based or other user data input via the touch sensitive display using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements not shown are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device. The device functional elements are driven by a device functional element s interface which coupled with the system bus . A functional element may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards DVDs digital videotape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The following includes a series of illustrations depicting implementations of processes. For ease of understanding certain illustrations are organized such that the initial illustrations present implementations via an overall big picture viewpoint and thereafter the following illustrations present alternate implementations and or expansions of the big picture illustrations as either sub steps or additional steps building on one or more earlier presented illustrations. This style of presentation utilized herein e.g. beginning with a presentation of a illustration s presenting an overall view and thereafter providing additions to and or further details in subsequent illustrations generally allows for a rapid and easy understanding of the various process implementations.

The document includes a content portion . The content portion may include a word illustrated as a word Rhett a phrase illustrated as the phrase Frankly my dear I don t give a damn and or other printed or native content schematically illustrated as a textual paragraph . In another embodiment the content portion may include a textual content portion. For example a textual content portion may include words printed on a page such as a page of a book and or words printed on a cover or a spine of a book. In a further embodiment the content portion may include a human language content for example text printed in roman alphabet characters math symbols and or script characters such as Asian language characters. In another embodiment the content portion may include a human readable content and or graphical content. In an embodiment the content portion may include a graphical content having a meaning or a significance to a human such as a picture a drawing a figure a photograph an illustration a diagram a doodle a decoration a sketch and or a portrait. In another embodiment the content portion may be arbitrary and not recognizable by an individual human reader. In a further embodiment the content portion may include any content primarily useful to a human reader. For example a content portion may include a textual and or graphical label on a retail article such as clothing a retail package or a carton. A content portion may include an address written on a shipping label or an address written on a side of a building. A content portion may include an odometer reading on a vehicle or a temperature reading on a thermometer. In another embodiment the content portion may include an incidental element not primarily employed by a human reader but that aids in distinguishing the document. For example an incidental element may include a coffee stain a torn page and or a physical attribute of the document. In an embodiment a content portion may include a human and or machine recognizable characteristic form or shape such a pair of skis a car and or a dress.

In an embodiment the content portion of the document may be displayed on a surface such as a paper surface a surface of a sheet of paper a surface of a newspaper a surface of a book and or a surface of a poster. In a further embodiment the surface may include a surface of a box a surface of a container a surface of a carton a surface of a label a surface of a currency bill or note and or a surface of a check. In another embodiment a surface may include a surface of an article of clothing a surface of an item a surface of a structure a surface of a vehicle and or a surface of an indicator. In an embodiment a surface may include content located in at least two planes. In another embodiment a surface may include a planar surface. In an embodiment the content portion may be electronically displayed such as a text displayed through the surface and or a text projected on the surface. The surface electronically displaying the content portion may include a surface of a computer monitor a surface of a television screen and or a surface of an e paper 

The exemplary handheld writing device includes a writing element . In an embodiment the writing element may include an active writing element such as an ink cartridge operable to discharge a marking fluid onto a surface of a document. The active writing element may include a replaceable ink cartridge. In another embodiment the active writing element may include a pencil lead. In a further embodiment the writing element may include a non marking element such as non marking stylus.

The writing device also includes a writing detector module operable to generate information indicative of a handwriting movement by the writing element . The handwriting movement is illustrated as My favorite movie line. The writing detector module may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or a combination thereof. An embodiment of the writing detector module may be implemented using reflected light optical image sonar ultrasound and or accelerometer detection of a handwriting movement. The handwriting movement may be formed in response to hand movements. In an alternative embodiment the handwriting movement may be formed in response to movements of another part of a body such as by movement of a user s head while holding the writing device in their mouth.

In an embodiment information includes data that may be processed stored or transmitted by a computing device. In another embodiment information includes a meaning of data as may be interpreted by or meaningful to people. In an embodiment data includes a piece or pieces of information. Data may include facts quantities characters and or symbols. Data may be subject to operations by a computer saved and transmitted by electrical signals.

In an embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented by illuminating a surface of the document from the handheld writing device and determining the handwriting movement of the writing element in response to reflected illumination from the surface such as more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 741 335 titled OPTICAL TRANSLATION MEASUREMENT issued on May 25 2004 Kinrot et al. as inventor U.S. Pat. No. 6 452 683 titled OPTICAL TRANSLATION MEASUREMENT issued on Sep. 17 2002 Kinrot et al. as inventor and U.S. Pat. No. 6 330 057 titled OPTICAL TRANSLATION MEASUREMENT issued on Dec. 11 2001 Lederer et al. as inventor each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all that they disclose and teach. In another embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented by capturing images of a pattern in a writing base and handwriting movements of the pen determined by calculating positions of the writing element based on the images of the writing base such as more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 180 509 published as US 2004 0179000 titled ELECTRONIC PEN MOUNTING PART THEREFOR AND METHOD OF MAKING THE PEN filed Jun. 26 2002 under application Ser. No. 10 179 949 Fermgard et al. as inventor which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that is discloses and teaches. In a further embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented using ultrasound to track a handwriting movement of a writing element such as more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 556 published as US 2003 0173121 titled DIGITZER PEN filed Mar. 18 2002 under application Ser. No. 10 098 390 Zloter et al. as inventor which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that it discloses and teaches. In an embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented using a sensor package that measures velocity acceleration and angular acceleration in a handheld writing device such as more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 993 451 published as US 2004 0260507 titled 3D INPUT APPARATUS AND METHOD THEREOF filed Jun. 17 2004 under application Ser. No. 10 868 959 Chang et al. as inventor which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that it discloses and teaches. In another embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented using an image processing approach that captures and saves segments of a writing movement as a separate image. The final output is a combination of multiple images superimposed on each other.

In another embodiment the writing detector module may generate information indicative of a handwriting movement by capturing images of the handwriting movement and stitching the images together.

In an embodiment the writing detector module may include an electrical circuit operable to generate information indicative of a handwriting movement of the writing element. In a further embodiment the writing detector module may include operability to generate information indicative of a movement of the writing element generated by an activity of writing by hand. In another embodiment the writing detector module may include operability to generate information indicative of a movement of the writing element in response to a hand generated activity.

In a further embodiment the writing detector module may generate raw handwriting movement information. In another embodiment the writing detector module may process the raw handwriting movement information.

The writing device also includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. In an embodiment a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting may include a content portion separated from the handwriting movement of less than approximately one to two inches. In another embodiment a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement may include a content portion and a handwriting movement both on a page. In a further embodiment a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement may include a content portion on a body that includes the handwriting movement. In an inanimate example the content portion may be a book title and or author printed on a book spine or cover and the handwriting movement being on a page of the book. In an animate example the content portion may include a portion of a human body such as a skin surface having a landmark and the handwriting movement being on the skin surface and proximate to the landmark such a surgeon marking incision lines before beginning a procedure.

The context detector module may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or any combination thereof. In an embodiment the context detector module may include an electrical circuit operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element such as the phrase and or the word . An embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a displayed document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. A further alternative embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of an electronically displayed document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. Another embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a printed content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. An embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a printed content portion of a paper based document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. A further alternative embodiment includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of an e paper document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element.

In an embodiment the context detector module may include an image capture device having a lens . The image capture device includes operability to capture at least one image of the content portion proximate to the handwriting movement such as the phrase and or the word . The image capture device and the lens may have any location with respect to the handheld writing device suitable for capturing at least one image of a content portion proximate to the handwriting movement including within an outer periphery of the handheld writing device and or outside the outer periphery. In another embodiment the image capture device includes operability to capture image information of the displayed content portion proximate to the handwriting movement with a resolution sufficient to render the image information into textural information by an optical character resolution process.

In a further embodiment the image capture device includes operability to capture at least one image of a displayed content portion as a writer moves the writing element of the handheld writing device toward the document . In another embodiment the image capture device includes operability to capture at least one image of a displayed content portion as a writer imparts a handwriting movement to the writing element. In a further embodiment the image capture device includes operability to capture at least one image of a displayed content portion as a writer moves the writing element of the handheld writing device away from the document. The lens may include a user adjustable orientation allowing a user to optimize image capture.

In an embodiment the context detector module may include a user activatable switch not shown allowing a user to select when the information indicative of a content portion of a document element will be captured. For example the image capture device may include a user activatable switch allowing a user to select when an image of a content portion is obtained. A user may aim the lens at a content portion and capture an image by activating the switch. The switch may include a hardware switch a motion sensitive switch and or a voice activated switch.

In an embodiment the context detector module may further include operability to acquire contextual information from another source and to use that contextual information to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. For example the handwriting movement may occur proximate to a surface or a device operable to generate contextual information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement. The surface may include a touch sensitive screen coupled to a circuit operable to generate the contextual information. Alternatively the handwriting movement may occur proximate to a surface monitored by an ultrasonic system coupled to a circuit operable to generate contextual information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement.

In a further embodiment the context detector module may generate raw information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. In another embodiment the context detector module may process the raw context portion information.

In another embodiment the context detector module may include an operability to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the handwriting movement using other technologies. For example information indicative of a content portion may be generated using data from a radio frequency identification device RFID associated with the document a global positioning satellite system and or other data signal.

In an alternative embodiment the handheld writing device may include a recognition module . The recognition module includes an operability to generate information indicative of a human readable content in response to the information indicative of the hand driven movement of the writing element. For example in an embodiment the recognition module may determine a presence of human readable content in the information indicative of the hand driven or handwriting movement generated by the writing detector module recognize the human readable content as My favorite movie line and generate information indicative of that content. In another embodiment the recognition module may determine a presence of human readable content recognize the handwriting movements as forming the human readable content as a script character and generate information indicative of that script character.

In an operation of an embodiment a reader may wish to annotate the document with a comment or sketch. The reader holds the handheld writing device in their hand in a manner similar to a conventional pen or pencil and begins handwriting an annotation using the writing element proximate to a content portion . The handheld writing device captures a handwriting movement or hand driven movement of the writing element imparted by the user s hand to the writing device and through the writing detector module generates information indicative of the handwriting movement. The handheld writing device captures a context of the handwriting movement through the context detector module by capturing at least one image of the content portion of the document proximate to the handwriting movement. The context may be captured before the handwriting movement during the handwriting movement and or after the handwriting movement. The context detector module generates information indicative of the content portion of the document proximate to the handwriting movement.

The electronic pen also includes a writing detector module operable to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element. In an embodiment a hand driven movement includes a hand generated movement. In an alternative embodiment the writing detector module includes an operability to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element in contact with the surface of a document . In another alternative embodiment the writing detector module includes an operability to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element in contact with the surface of a paper document. In a further embodiment the writing detector module includes an operability to generate information indicative of a hand driven movement of the writing element in contact with a surface displaying an electronic document. The writing detector module may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or a combination thereof. An embodiment of the writing detector module may be implemented using reflected light optical image sonar ultrasound and or accelerometer detection of the handwriting movement. In an embodiment the writing detector module may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the writing detector module of .

The electronic pen further includes a context detector module operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. In an alternative embodiment the context detector module may include an operability to generate information indicative of a content portion of a page of a multipage document proximate to the handwriting movement of the writing element. In another alternative embodiment the context detector module may include an operability to generate information indicative of a hand generated writing movement of the writing element. The context detector module may be implemented in any manner including software hardware firmware and or any combination thereof. In an embodiment the context detector module may be implemented in a manner at least substantially similar to the writing detector module of .

In an alternative embodiment the electronic pen may include at least one additional module. Additional modules may include a communications module and a storage module . In an embodiment the communications module includes an operability to transmit at least one of the signal indicative of a hand driven movement of a writing element and the signal indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. In another embodiment the communications module includes an operability to transmit in real time at least one of the information indicative of a hand driven movement of a writing element and the information indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. In a further embodiment the communications module includes operability to transmit at least one of processed information corresponding to the information indicative of a handwriting movement of a writing element and processed information corresponding to the information indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the writing movement of the writing element.

The communications module may transmit a signal. In an optional embodiment the communications module both receives and transmits signals transceiver . For example and without limitation signal includes a current signal voltage signal magnetic signal or optical signal in a format capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. The communications module may include wireless wired infrared optical and or other communications techniques. In an embodiment the communications module may include operability for communication with a computing device such as the thin computing device of and or the computing device of . The communications module may include an antenna for wireless communication a connection for wired connection and or an optical port for optical communication.

The digital storage module may include any suitable digital storage medium. For example a digital storage medium may include a computer storage medium. The digital storage module includes operability to save at least one of the information indicative of a hand driven movement of a writing element and the information indicative of at least a portion of a document proximate to the hand driven movement of the writing element. Information may be saved in any form or format such as a raw data form or a processed data form. In conjunction with the communications module information may be saved as generated and then be available for uploading at a later time. For example information may be stored batched and subsequently transmitted. In another example information may be stored and subsequently transmitted after the electronic pen is docked.

In operation of an embodiment the electronic pen acquires a handwritten annotation and a context of the handwritten annotation in a manner at least substantially similar to the handheld writing device of . In addition the electronic pen may transmit signals indicative of the handwritten annotation and the context of the annotation using the communication module . One or both of the signals may be transmitted in real time as a reader writes an annotation. In an alternative embodiment one or both of the signals may be processed by a component of the electronic pen prior to transmission. In another alternative embodiment the electronic pen may save one or both of the signals in the digital storage medium . The saved signal may be transmitted at a later time.

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a pen configured to mark relative to an existing character such as the word of a document based at least in part on a marking position relative to the existing character of the document wherein the mark and an indicator of the marking position are saved within the pen.

An embodiment includes a system. The system includes a context detecting apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document and an annotating apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a user created expression associated with the content portion of the document. The context detecting apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document may include a handheld context detecting apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document. The context detecting apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document may include a human wearable context detecting apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document. The human wearable context detecting apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document may include eye glasses having a context detecting apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a content portion of a document.

The annotating apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a user created expression associated with the content portion of the document may include a handheld annotating apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a user created expression associated with the content portion of the document. The human handheld annotating apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a user created expression associated with the content portion of the document may include a handheld annotating apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a verbal user expression associated with the content portion of the document. The human handheld annotating apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a user created expression associated with the content portion of the document may include a handheld annotating apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a handwritten user expression associated with the content portion of the document. The human handheld annotating apparatus operable to generate information indicative of a user created expression associated with the content portion of the document may include a handheld annotating apparatus operable to generate an information indicative of a predetermined user expression associated with the content portion of the document.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will require optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in standard integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from this subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is solely defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

