---

title: Inter-ship personnel transfer device and method of moving between compacted state and non-compacted state
abstract: The present invention's vehicle, suitable for being hoisted while carrying people between destinations, is compactable and de-compactable. As typically embodied, the vehicle includes a box-shaped open frame, plural chairs, and a shock-absorbent base. The frame includes a rectangular floor panel, a rectangular ceiling panel, and four posts connecting the floor and ceiling panels. Each post is foldable via a medial hinge to half its unfolded length, and is attached in a hinged manner at its opposite ends to respective corner portions of the floor panel and the ceiling panel. Each chair is mounted on the floor panel and can be folded down to a position adjacent to the top surface of the floor panel using hinges variously connecting chair components including a seat, a chair back, two side safety restraints, and a chair support. The shock-absorbent base is solid or inflatable and is attached beneath the floor panel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07556471&OS=07556471&RS=07556471
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07556471
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060918
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 797 083 filing date 22 Apr. 2006 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Inter Ship Personnel Transfer Device joint inventors Sean M. Gallagher Stuart G. Ullman Ryan T. Hayleck Christopher J. Doyle John F. O Dea Robert W. Anderson and Kellie L. Redcay.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 797 085 filing date 21 Apr. 2006 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Cargo Transfer Method and Apparatus joint inventors Robert W. Anderson Stuart G. Ullman Kellie L. Redcay Ryan T. Hayleck John F. O Dea Sean M. Gallagher Christopher J. Doyle and Donald R. Jacobson.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to transportation of people more particularly to methods and devices for transferring people between marine vessels e.g. ships or boats and or other marine structures e.g. offshore platforms while at sea.

With the United States Navy s introduction of the Sea Base program and of concepts such as Ship to Objective Maneuver there is a greater need for personnel to be transferred between marine structures e.g. marine vessels such as ships while at sea. Unfortunately such transfer is often quite difficult to achieve because of high sea states and other environmental constraints and influences. Among the various methodologies proposed to address this problem many have involved ramps slides or ladders. Generally speaking previous concepts have proven to be less than entirely satisfactory due to the varying relative motion between the marine structures.

Of interest are the following United States patents each of which is incorporated herein by reference Greene Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 6 309 160 B1 issued 30 Oct. 2001 entitled Offshore Personnel Transfer System Bernal U.S. Pat. No. 6 131 224 issued 17 Oct. 2000 entitled Coupling Device for Transfer between a Static Structure and a Dynamic Structure Wehmeyer U.S. Pat. No. 5 203 425 issued 20 Apr. 1993 entitled Personnel Lift Devices Hill U.S. Pat. No. 5 160 286 issued 3 Nov. 1992 entitled Personnel Transfer System Kimon et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 412 598 issued 1 Nov. 1983 entitled Personnel Transfer Apparatus and Method. 

Hill U.S. Pat. No. 5 160 286 afore noted discloses personnel transfer apparatus that can be used as a buoyant support for persons in water as well as for transferring persons between marine vessels. Hill is largely concerned with floatability of his apparatus. According to his preferred embodiments Hill provides a buoyant shock absorbing base supporting the deck of his cylindrical chamber and further provides for his chamber plural peripheral posts usable for lifting purposes and a central post not usable for lifting purposes that can include foam material for enhancing floatability and padding for protecting the occupants. Hill provides embodiments of his apparatus of the sitting type which includes a central bench or two central benches with a safety belt for each and of the standing type. Among the drawbacks of Hill s apparatus are its rather cumbersome nature its inability to accommodate large numbers of occupants and its inability to protect the occupants from shaking jolting and jostling that may accompany hoisting of his apparatus.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide method and apparatus for safely transferring personnel between marine structures in a marine e.g. waterborne or at sea setting.

Another object of the present invention is to provide such method and apparatus that can safely transfer large numbers of personnel.

A further object of the present invention is to provide such apparatus that does not take up an inordinate amount of space when not in use.

The present invention represents a new methodology for transferring people between ships while at sea. The present invention goes in a different direction from most previous approaches to transferring personnel between marine vessels. In creating its unique personnel solution the present invention draws from the shipping industry s extensive experience of moving ISO International Organization for Standardization shipping containers. The present invention s personnel transfer device as typically embodied bears some similarity to an ISO container that contains stores however as distinguished from an ISO container for moving cargo the inventive device is designed and optimized for moving personnel.

The inventive personnel transfer device is a human transportation vehicle that enables the rapid and safe transfer of large numbers of people between ships in situations in which other methodologies of transit are not feasible. The present invention is safe affords flexible usage can be used with existing assets is relatively uncomplicated and has a small stowage footprint. As the present invention is frequently practiced multiple people are transferred between ships at sea. According to typical embodiments the inventive methodology uses existing assets such as cranes e.g. gantry crane or boom crane or vertical replenishment VERTREP tools e.g. helicopters for hoisting the inventive vehicle from a first location e.g. a first ship s deck to a second location e.g. a second ship s deck .

In accordance with typical embodiments of the present invention a compactable transport device for containing personnel and being hoisted between locations comprises a foldable frame at least one foldable chair and a shock absorbent base. The frame includes a rigid floor a rigid ceiling and four foldable posts. Each chair is mounted on the floor. The shock absorbent base adjoins the frame beneath the floor. The shock absorbent base is for instance a solid member composed of a high damping elastomeric material characterized by a coefficient of restitution of less than approximately 0.1 relative to the surface of a stationary object made of steel such as a typical ship deck or an inflated sealed bladder or an inflated unsealed bladder that deflates upon impact and that self inflates subsequent to said deflation. Each post includes two post sections of approximately equal length and has two post ends and a junction between the two post sections so that each post section has a post end and so that the two post sections are hingedly connected to each other at the junction. The ceiling has four ceiling corners the floor has four floor corners. Each post is hingedly connected at a first post end to the ceiling at a ceiling corner and is hingedly connected at a second post end to the floor at a floor corner. Each chair includes a seat a chair back a pair of lateral head restraints and a chair support. Each restraint is hingedly connected to the chair back. The seat is hingedly connected to the chair support. The chair support is hingedly connected to the floor.

As the present invention s compactable transport device is typically embodied the frame approximately describes a first rectangular prismatic geometric shape when the frame is in a completely unfolded state. The frame approximately describes a second rectangular prismatic geometric shape when the frame is in a completely folded state. The second rectangular prismatic geometric shape is squatter than the first rectangular prismatic geometric shape. The first rectangular prismatic geometric shape has four vertical edges. Regardless of whether the frame is in a completely unfolded state or a completely folded state the ceiling and the floor approximately lie in respective geometric planes that are approximately parallel with respect to each other. When the frame is in a completely unfolded state the post sections of each said post are approximately coaxial the post thus being in a completely unfolded state the posts approximately corresponding to the four vertical edges of the first rectangular prismatic geometric shape. When the frame is in a completely folded state the ceiling the floor the post sections the seat the chair back the lateral head restraints and the chair support approximately lie in respective geometric planes that are approximately parallel with respect to each other.

A typical inventive method for transporting personnel between locations comprises a adjusting an inventive compactable transport device from a completely compacted state to a completely non compacted state the adjusting including i unfolding a frame from a completely folded state to a completely unfolded state and ii unfolding each chair from a completely folded state to a completely unfolded state b at a first location embarking at least one passenger on the inventive device in a completely non compacted state the embarking including situating the at least one passenger in the at least one chair each passenger being situated in one chair c hoisting the inventive device in a completely non compacted state with the at least one passenger embarked thereon from the first location to a second location d at the second location disembarking the at least one passenger from the device in a completely non compacted state and e subsequent to the disembarking of the at least one passenger adjusting the device from a completely non compacted state to a completely compacted state the adjusting including i folding the frame from a completely folded state to a completely unfolded state and ii folding each chair from a completely unfolded state to a completely folded state. According to typical inventive practice the hoisting of the inventive device includes prior to the disembarking of the at least one passenger placing the device in a completely non compacted state upon a surface at the second location so that the shock absorbent base contacts the surface but neither the frame nor the at least one chair contacts the surface.

As the present invention is frequently practiced the folding of the frame includes folding each post from a completely unfolded state to a completely folded state. The folding of each said post includes rotating a first post section toward the ceiling rotating a second post section toward the floor and rotating the post sections toward each other. The folding of each chair includes rotating each lateral head restraint toward said chair back rotating the seat toward the chair back and or the chair support and rotating the chair support toward the floor. The unfolding of the frame includes unfolding each post from a completely folded state to a completely unfolded state. The unfolding of each post includes rotating a first post section away from the ceiling rotating a second post section away from the floor and rotating the post sections away from each other. The unfolding of each chair includes rotating each lateral head restraint away from the chair back rotating the seat away from the chair back and or the chair support and rotating the chair support away from the floor.

The inventive personnel transfer device embodiment being considered for U.S. Navy use dubbed the Gator Crate by the present inventors carries eighteen passengers in a twenty foot frame that comports with ISO dimensional standards. In furtherance of the safety of the occupants the base beneath the floor of the inventive personnel transfer device s frame for containing the passengers absorbs impact loads. The inventive personnel transfer device s frame as well as the chairs contained therein fold for compact stowage of the inventive personnel transfer device.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to the present invention s compactable transport device is shown to be in a completely unfolded state suitable for human transport. The inventive device illustrated in is generally representative of an inventive embodiment being contemplated for use in the near future by the U.S. Navy. Inventive device includes foldable frame eighteen foldable chairs and a shock absorbent base . Frame includes a rigid floor panel a rigid ceiling panel and four foldable posts . Floor panel ceiling panel and posts are each composed of a rigid material such as metal elemental or alloy wood or composite. For instance floor panel and ceiling panel can each essentially consist of a plate made of steel or other suitable metallic material. Floor panel and ceiling panel are parallel and congruent each describing the same flat rectangular shape. Each chair is attached to floor panel at the top surface of floor panel . Shock absorbent base is attached to floor panel at the bottom surface of floor panel . The completely unfolded inventive device shown in has a completely unfolded frame and completely unfolded chairs .

The designed but not yet constructed U.S. Navy prototypical embodiment of an inventive personnel transfer device includes eighteen chairs and a frame which when completely unfolded has a rectangular prism shape and dimensions comporting with ISO standards. As shown in the frame and the chairs are in completely unfolded states. The U.S. Navy s device prototype depicted in includes a frame that has dimensions 20 feet in length 8 feet in width and 8.5 feet in height. Once the prototypical inventive device is employed up to eighteen people will be able to gather and sit inside the inventive device s frame contained therein for transit between two points. The shape and weight of the prototypical inventive device s volume is such that it can be used with traditional lifting devices such as cranes such as shown in and or helicopters such as shown in . As indicated in the prototypical inventive device has a frame that is dimensionally based on the volume of a 20 ft length 8 ft width 8.5 ft height ISO container. These standard ISO dimensions were selected since this represents a relatively large volume that already has plenty of lifting technology associated with it. This volume can accommodate fit up to eighteen military people e.g. U.S. Marines in full combat gear including their packs each in an individual seat.

Although frame is shown in and other figures herein to describe a rectangular prismatic shape the present invention can be practiced whereby frame describes any of multifarious three dimensional shapes. Further although inventive practice is possible involving one or practically any plural number of chairs inventive practice frequently provides for a large number of chairs such as the eighteen chairs shown in to accommodate large numbers of occupants. The chairs are shown in to be contiguously arrayed in a centralized rectangular bench like configuration that roughly comports with the matching rectangular geometric forms of floor panel and ceiling panel . The chairs constitute four bench like formations closely arranged so as to describe a rectangular shape smaller than but similar to the rectangular shape identically described by floor panel and ceiling panel two opposite facing lengthwise benches consist of six chairs each and two opposite facing widthwise benches consist of three chairs each.

With reference to through inventive device is typically used as a transportation vehicle for being hoisted e.g. by a crane or an aircraft from a first location to a second location while carrying one or more typically plural passengers. As illustrated in a gantry crane situated on a marine vessel such as the U.S. Navy s planned Sea Beast designed to sit between two other marine vessels to facilitate inter ship transfer implements a horizontally moveable trolley from which inventive device is suspended via a hoist line . As illustrated in a slewing pedestal crane also commonly referred to as a rotary boom crane or a rotary jib crane suspends inventive device via a hoist line from the tip of a rotatable boom jib . As illustrated in inventive device is suspended via a hoist line from a helicopter .

In the light of the instant disclosure the ordinarily skilled artisan will appreciate the various joint means for joining an inventive device with a hoist line in order to hoist inventive device . In particular known techniques for associating conventional ISO containers with hoist lines are applicable to inventive practice. For instance one or more standard ISO container spreader bars or box spreaders diagrammatically represented in through can be implemented for connecting hoist line to frame . Alternatively four relatively short hoist coupling lines can each be attached to ceiling panel and or a post at a corner of the ceiling panel at its upper surface. The four lines converge and meet at an attachment point at the lower end of hoist line so as to engage e.g. a hook block not shown at the host line s lower end.

Regardless of the hoisting technique e.g. crane or aircraft the typical inventive methodology for transporting personnel between locations includes embarking the passenger s onto inventive device at a first location hoisting inventive device with the passengers seated therein and disembarking the passenger s from inventive device at a second location. For the embarking inventive device is situated on a surface such as a ship deck similarly for the disembarking inventive device is situated on a surface such as a ship deck. The embarking includes seating the passenger s in the chair s one passenger to a chair . The disembarking includes unseating the passenger s from the chair s . The hoist landing of an inventive device at any location should be deliberately accomplished as gently as possible so that the shock absorbent base abuttingly makes contact with the landing surface at a relatively low speed so as to be optimally effective in dissipating energy associated with the impact of the inventive device upon the landing surface . The take off and landing surfaces are typically surfaces of solid structures.

Although inventive device can be embodied so as to provide for its buoyancy to permit its situation in water at the water surface this is generally not preferred inventive practice. To provide for buoyancy the inventive device would likely include an inflatable base of the kind shown in . A buoyant inventive device would require careful design such as incorporating additional ballast type structure to ensure the safety of the passengers as an extremely high perhaps certain risk of capsizing is associated with a relatively high center of gravity characterizing inventive device as typically embodied. Moreover a typical non buoyant inventive device such as depicted in through and has a base having length and width dimensions that are concordant e.g. nearly coextensive with those of the frame as depicted base only slightly somewhat exceeds frame in length and width thus advancing the foldability and storability of the overall inventive device . In contrast a buoyant inventive device would likely require a base that extends well beyond frame in length and width thus compromising or vitiating the foldability and storability of the overall inventive device .

The posts are the vertical straight structural members connecting the horizontal floor panel and the horizontal ceiling panel when frame is completely unfolded. Reference now being made to through each post includes two rigid post sections and of equal length. Each post has a medial post inter section junction where lower post section and upper post section meet a lower post end and an upper post end . Floor panel has four floor corners and ceiling panel has four ceiling corners . As to each post Lower post section and upper post section are connected to each other at their junction via a frame hinge lower post section is connected to floor panel at a floor corner at its lower post end via a frame hinge upper post section is connected to ceiling panel at a ceiling corner at its upper post end via a frame hinge . The term hinge as used herein broadly refers to any mechanical device that connects two objects and permits facilitates or promotes a degree of rotation between the objects such as rotation of one or either object relative to the other object.

Inventive frame is in a completely unfolded state as shown in through is in a partially folded unfolded state as shown in and is in a completely folded state as shown in . Frame when in a completely unfolded state describes a rectangular prismatic geometric shape having the same length and width of the rectangular prismatic geometric shape described by frame when in a completely folded state except that the completely folded frame has a significantly shorter height than has the completely unfolded frame. As shown in through the height of the completely folded frame is less than the height of the completely unfolded frame . According to most embodiments of the present invention the completely folded frame is less than half the height of the completely unfolded frame.

According to frequent inventive practice the folding and unfolding operations of frame somewhat akin to the folding and unfolding of a conventional card or picnic table are performed with the assistance of machinery such as a crane or forklift. According to some inventive embodiments such as those including special pre loaded hinges the folding and unfolding operations of frame can be performed manually. Frame shown in is folded by bending each straight post at its hinged medial junctions and rotating its post sections and toward each other until post sections and are longitudinally adjacent as shown in . The unfolding of frame from the completely folded state shown in to the completely unfolded state shown in involves the reverse process of rotating post sections and of each post away from each other until each post s post sections and are coaxial as shown in .

According to typical inventive practice the folding and unfolding operations of each chair somewhat akin to the folding and unfolding of a conventional lounge or beach chair are performed manually. With reference to through diverse embodiments of the present invention s chair are possible the common denominator being the capability of the chair of being folded down from a completely upright i.e. useable condition to a completely flat i.e. storable condition. The inventive chair embodiment shown in through is characterized perhaps by a bit more mechanical complexity than is the inventive embodiment shown in through . Either chair embodiment includes two side lateral head restraints and a chair seat a chair back and a chair support .

Reference is now made to through which show two equivalent chairs viz. lefthand chair and right hand chair . As shown in through lefthand chair includes two side head restraints and right side head restraint is concealed behind left side head restraint as shown chair seat chair back chair support column two chair support struts and a chair support pedestal similarly righthand chair includes two side head restraints left side head restraint is concealed behind right side head restraint as shown chair seat chair back chair support column two chair support struts and a chair support pedestal . In lefthand chair chair support includes chair support column chair support struts and chair support pedestal in righthand chair chair support includes chair support column chair support struts and chair support pedestal .

The folding down of the lefthand chair shown in through involves folding of the various chair components using the associated chair hinges . It can be considered with some approximation that chair back describes a vertical geometric plane and that chair support column lies in this vertical geometric plane. It can also be considered with some approximation that floor panel describes a horizontal geometric plane. The support struts are hingedly connected to each other as are the support struts of the righthand chair . Each of the two side head restraints and is rotated inward toward the vertical geometric plane described by chair back seat is rotated downward toward the vertical geometric plane described by chair back chair back is slid downward toward the horizontal geometric plane described by floor panel using a linear adjustment mechanism such as a slide in slot mechanism wherein either the left chair back portion or the left chair support portion is slotted and side head restraints and chair seat chair back and chair support struts are together rotated downward toward the horizontal geometric plane described by floor panel .

In its completely folded state lefthand chair has a much shorter height than does righthand chair as shown in equivalently stated lefthand chair has a much shorter height than lefthand chair does in its completely unfolded state as shown in . As shown in chair back chair seat chair support column chair support struts and floor panel are adjacently parallel or approximately so when in their respective horizontal positions. The unfolding of lefthand chair from the completely folded condition shown in to the completely folded condition shown through involves unfolding of the various chair components using the associated chair hinges doing so in a manner representing what is essentially a reversal of the approach to folding chair from the completely unfolded condition shown in to the completely folded condition shown through . Folding and unfolding of righthand chair are performed in a similar manner.

Still referring to through and also referring to through a typical inventive chair is endowed with safety features. The two side head restraints and are equivalently shaped dimensioned and padded e.g. with a resilient material . The seat and chair back as well can be provided with padding in furtherance of the safety of the person sitting in the chair . Although the chairs are diagrammatically represented herein as being characterized by rather simple rectilinear shapes it is to be understood that the present invention s chairs can be configured in precise and nuanced ways such as having contours to promote comfort and ergonomics. Strap type restraint apparatus such as seat belt and shoulder harness depicted in is associated with each inventive chair as typically practiced.

The folding down of the chair embodiment shown in through involves folding of the various chair components using the associated chair hinges . As shown in and left side head restraint and right side head restraint are each rotated inward toward the vertical geometric plane described by chair back until adjacent and parallel to chair back . As shown in and seat is rotated downward toward the vertical geometric plane described by chair back until adjacent and parallel to chair back . As further shown in and chair back is moved downward using a linear adjustment mechanism toward the horizontal geometric plane described by floor . For instance chair back is slid downward using a slide in slot mechanism in which the chair back is provided with a slot to accommodate a sliding member with which support column is provided alternatively chair support column can be slotted to accommodate a sliding member with which chair back is provided. Slide in slot mechanism can be ratcheted for vertical adjustability of chair back to conform with the seated individual. Other variations and types of linear adjustment mechanisms are possible for inventive chair .

As shown in and side head restraints and seat chair back and support column are together rotated downward toward the horizontal geometric plane described by floor panel . In its completely folded state inventive chair is considerably squatter than it is in its completely unfolded state . As shown in chair back portion seat support column and floor panel are adjacently parallel when in their respective horizontal positions. The process of unfolding inventive chair from completely folded to completely unfolded is essentially the reverse of the process of folding inventive chair from completely unfolded to completely folded .

Reference is now made to in which frame is shown to be completely unfolded while every chair is shown to be completely folded. In the processes of folding and unfolding the overall inventive device the folding of the chairs is performed at a stage separate from the folding of the frame . In folding frame to a completely folded state from a completely unfolded state the folding of the chairs precedes the folding of the frame . In unfolding frame to a completely unfolded state from a completely folded state the unfolding of the frame precedes the unfolding of the chairs . portrays the inventive device s frame in a completely unfolded state and all individual chairs in respective completely folded states. All of the chairs should be folded down to their respective completely folded conditions before the frame is folded down to its completely folded condition. Conversely frame should be unfolded up to its completely unfolded condition before any of the chairs is folded up to its completely unfolded condition.

Inventive device has a configuration adjustable for stowage such that when it is not being utilized it can be configured to occupy significantly less space than when it is being utilized. Inventive practice will thus be especially propitious in situations in which space is at a premium such as onboard ships. Inventive device s frame can fold and unfold as illustrated in through . In addition inventive device s individual chairs can fold and unfold as illustrated in through . As depicted in and the U.S. Navy s designed prototypical inventive device the Gator Crate in its completely folded state is approximately one third the height of the inventive device in its completely unfolded state. Therefore when each of three prototypical inventive devices is in its completely folded state the aggregation of these three separate inventive devices requires approximately the stowage space of one ISO container having the volumetric dimensions of the inventive device when in its completely unfolded state. More generally inventive practice usually provides for a folded versus unfolded differential in height such that the completely folded form of the inventive personnel transfer device is less than half the height of the completely unfolded form of the inventive personnel transfer device.

In the designing by a practitioner of the present invention of any of the multifarious embodiments of the present invention the shape and weight criteria for the inventive personnel transfer device can include those that are applicable and scaleable to a number of commercial sized and military sized container structures both standard and non standard such as MILVANS QUADCONS 20 foot ISO containers 35 foot ISO containers 40 foot ISO containers etc. In the light of the instant disclosure the ordinarily skilled artisan will appreciate the diverse fabrication methods and materials that can be used to construct the inventive personnel transfer device including the frame which includes the floor the ceiling and the posts the chair s and the shock absorbent base. Fabrication techniques known in the art that can be inventively practiced include welding bolting and gluing. Materials known in the art that can be inventively practiced include but are not limited to varieties of i metals or metal alloys such as steel or aluminum ii plastics or iii composite materials such as fiberglass or glass reinforced plastic GRP .

The inventive personnel transfer device as typically practiced incorporates safety measures that help prevent injury in various ways thus allowing for the safe transfer of personnel. People are prevented from falling from the frame and from hitting against each other while seated in the frame particularly during transit through the use of restraining straps e.g. seat belts and shoulder harnesses and side head restraints e.g. padded dividers situated between the people s heads. Hooks attached to the frame and or the chairs can be implemented so that soldiers can clip themselves in. The inventive personnel transfer device includes a shock absorbent base for preventing or at least mitigating injury while the container is being set down onto a surface.

Depending on the application of the present invention circumstances may be such that the inventive personnel transfer device will be required to be hoisted and dropped a distance upon a hard surface rather than contiguously placed thereon in order to bring people to their destination. The shock absorbent base can be for instance an inflatable base a hydraulic base a pneumatic base or a damping material base e.g. made of a continuous damping material such as rubber foam etc. . These and other damping systems and combinations thereof are possible for the inventive device s base . While the inventive device is being set down e.g. onto a deck the base is sufficiently shock absorbent so as to prevent this load from being transferred to the occupants of the inventive device.

Now referring to through a shock absorbent base adjoins frame beneath floor . The present invention s shock absorbent base can be variously embodied in forms including but not limited to the following i a solid member composed of a high damping elastomeric material characterized by a low coefficient of restitution e.g. a coefficient of restitution of less than approximately 0.1 ii an inflated sealed bladder iii an inflated unsealed bladder that deflates upon impact and that self inflates subsequent to the deflation. These are three noteworthy versions among the various versions of shock absorbent systems that are under consideration by the present inventors for contemplated practice of the base component of the U.S. Navy s prototypical inventive device . A common theme among these three versions is that each version represents a passive system. That is no external power or direction is required for operation of these passive systems.

According to the energy damping rubber base depicted in a material characterized by a low coefficient of restitution is used for the base . The term coefficient of restitution COR is conventionally understood to denote a dimensionless number between zero 0 and one 1 inclusive representing the amount of retention or loss of energy upon the collision of two objects. Generally speaking for a moving object bouncing off of the surface of a stationary object such as a steel ship deck the COR equals V V where Vis the scalar velocity of the moving object after the impact and Vis the scalar velocity of the moving object before the impact equivalently expressed the COR equals h H where H is the height at which the moving object is dropped and h is the height to which the moving object bounces. As the COR approaches 0 more energy tends to be absorbed as opposed to reflected conversely as the COR approaches 1 more energy tends to be reflected rather than absorbed. A golf ball or a super ball basically an extremely bouncy rubber ball is an example of an object characterized by a high COR. The present invention s base should be the opposite i.e. characterized by a low COR. A typical material suitable for inventive practice of base is a synthetic rubber polymer of any of diverse types that allows some degree of compression but is accompanied by a high degree of energy damping. The present invention will usually be practiced so that its shock absorbent base is characterized by a coefficient of restitution of less than 0.1 when dropped upon the surface of a steel entity such as a ship deck.

A typical inflatable base depicted in includes one or more inflatable bags bladders that typically during fabrication of inventive device is to some degree inflated typically partially inflated with a fluid typically air but possibly a more viscous fluid . An important principle here is that a partially inflated bag will shift the contents of a bag to react against a pressure source from one specific axis or source in doing so it gracefully absorbs energy. An example of this would be a person flopping down into a beanbag chair the chair molds itself around the person who just landed on it without reflecting much energy back into the person.

The deflatible automatically inflatable base dubbed the whoopee cushion by the present inventors depicted in is similar to the rubber skirt around a surface effect ship SES that is used to contain the air from the ship s lifting fans thereby creating a lifting cushion for the ship. However as distinguished from a surface effect ship s skirt which is a continuous membrane the present invention s base has one more openings or apertures in the membrane material such as several vertical slits provided in bladder as illustrated in . Such provision of one or more openings or apertures permits a path through which trapped fluid e.g. air can escape in a controlled fashion as a load is placed on the base . Inventive base is somewhat analogous to a conventional child s whoopee cushion prank device that is capable of emanating flatulence like sound via air escape when sat upon. Inventive base includes automatic re inflation means such as including one or more foam members shown in . Basically as an inventive device is set down upon a surface such as a ship deck the air trapped by the bladder is forced out via the slits by the pressure exerted through the mass of the inventive device thereby affording cushioning for the inventive device and giving rise to the present inventor s whoopee cushion appellation for base .

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

