---

title: C5a receptor antagonists
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08071810&OS=08071810&RS=08071810
owner: Jerini AG
number: 08071810
owner_city: Berlin
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20060530
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 National Phase Entry Application from PCT EP2006 005141 filed May 30 2006 which claims the benefit of European Patent Application No. 05011620.1 filed on May 30 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

Besides the adaptive immune system another in terms of evolutionary development much older system for the defence against infection exists. This system is called complement system and consists of more than 30 soluble and membrane bound proteins. The complement system can be activated without or together with the adaptive immune system to eliminate e.g. pathogenic bacteria. An uncontrolled activation or inadequate regulation of the complement system is related to a number of inflammatory diseases like septic shock reperfusion injury rheumatoid arthritis transplant rejection acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS systemic lupus erythematosis SLE and glomerulonephritis. Numerous overviews over the relation between the complement system and diseases are published e.g. Kirschfink 1997 Immunopharmacology 38 51 62 Markides 1998 Pharmacological Reviews 50 59 87 Walport 2001 The New England Journal of Medicine 344 1140 1144 Walport 2001 The New England Journal of Medicine 344 1058 66 .

Activation of the complement system takes place via three different pathways. They are called classical alternative and mannose binding lectin MBL way. All pathways proceed via the sequential processing and thus activation of pro forms of proteases. As each activated protease can cleave and therefore activate the next pro form an amplification of the initial reaction is obtained. This is similar to the clotting cascade. An overview over the complement system is given by Sim and Laich 2000 Biochemical Society Transactions 28 545 550 .

Some of the most important proteins that are generated upon complement activation are C3a C3b C5a and C5b. These proteins will be discussed in detail.

C3b is an essential part of a central protease of the complement cascade the C5 convertase. C3b is part of the C5 convertase from both the classical and alternative pathway of complement activation. The MLB pathway is proceeding via the convertases of the classical pathway too.

The C5 convertase is responsible for the progress of the complement cascade and catalyses the cleavage of C5. Additionally C3b is covalently attached to the surface of e.g. bacteria which are thus more prone to phagocytosis by macrophages. Similar processes are described for immune complex clearance.

C3a is the smaller fragment that is produced in addition to C3b upon cleavage of C3. C3a is a comparatively weak chemokine and belongs to the anaphylatoxins.

C5b is formed upon cleavage of C5. This cleavage product is the starting point for the formation of the membrane attack complex MAC . The MAC forms a pore which perforates both plasma membranes of bacteria and endogenous cells. Due to the pore formation the perforated cells can be lysed.

C5a is the 74 amino acid N terminal cleavage product of the chain of plasma protein C5 and is released by the activity of the C5 convertase. C5a is bound by its receptor which is referred to as C5a receptor C5aR1 or CD88 with high affinity and triggers a number of pro inflammatory effects. It is one of the most potent chemokines and belongs as C3a to the anaphylatoxins. The C5aR can be found on many cells. This receptor is particularly found on neutrophils macrophages smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells.

C5a release is thought to be directly or indirectly responsible for many acute and chronic diseases as well as symptoms thereof. Examples for acute diseases and symptoms are septic shock SIRS systemic severe inflammatory response syndrome MOF multi organ failure oder ARDS acute respiratory distress syndrome . An example for a chronic disease is rheumatoid arthritis. Several systemic diseases cause local manifestations which can be treated with a C5a receptor antagonist.

Finally C5a and its receptor are interesting targets also for infections and diseases associated therewith i.e. inflammatory diseases as for instance mycarditis.

Due to the involvement of C5a and its receptor in several diseases and symptoms thereof in the prior art several strategies were developed for the treatment of these.

C5a receptor antagonists as reported in detail below can be used for an intracorporal therapy as well as for an extracorporal treatment of blood and organs. For instance for the treatment of dialysis patients or other patients observing thereby unwanted side effects one should evaluate the possibility that e.g. the complement system might be activated at the artificial surfaces. Furthermore such a treatment can be used to treat reperfusion injuries that can occur in patients undergoing revascularization or other treatments to increase or renew blood circulation such as e.g. PTCA or thrombolysis as well as in patients undergoing surgery during which the blood circulation is entirely or partially interrupted as e.g. during aneurysm surgery. An option is the extracorporal treatment of organs before being transplanted.

The C5a receptor C5aR is a particularly interesting target for the development of a drug for the treatment of C5a induced diseases and symptoms. This is especially the case due to the finding that mice lacking the receptor do not show an unusual phenotype Hopken et al. 1996 Nature 383 86 89 . Thus it appears that blocking the C5a receptor probably does not have any negative effect. Merely a higher sensitivity versus pseudomonad infection was observed in mice lacking the receptor. This means that the complement cascade with its useful functions for defense against pathogens MAC formation and immune complex clearance can still proceed in an unhindered manner even when the receptor is totally inactivated. Nevertheless these animals are protected against ischemia reperfusion injury. For this reason the inhibition of the C5a receptor appears more favorable than e.g. an inhibition of the complement system at the level of the cleavage of C5 or above.

Up to now several methods for the development of C5a receptor antagonists were used. Among them recombinant proteins peptides and also few small molecules are known in the literature.

Examples for C5aR inhibitors based on the use of recombinant proteins are CGS 32359 Ciba Geigy Pellas et al. 1998 Journal of Immunology 160 5616 5621 pIII A8 Heller et al. 1999 Journal of Immunology 163 985 994 and antibodies which can be of recombinant or non recombinant origin Huber Lang et al. 2001 Faseb Journal 15 568 570 . These C5aR antagonists are proteins and therefore expensive in production. They have comparatively high affinities and specificities but have the drawback of pronounced immunogenicity. In addition proteins can be effectively administered only by costly procedures such as e.g. i.v. or s.c. injection.

Peptidic antagonists were developed following different strategies. For example the C terminal sequence information of C5a was used for the development of peptidic C5aR antagonists. Peptides as therapeutically useable antagonists of the C5aR are advantageous over protein therapeutics because of lower production costs and reduced immunogenicity. Many peptidic antagonists are described in the literature. Examples for these peptidic C5aR antagonists or partial agonists are found in the following patents and patent applications U.S. Pat. No. 4 692 511 U.S. Pat. No. 5 663 148 WO 9009162 WO 9211858 WO 9212168 WO 9221361 WO 9407518 WO 9407815 WO 9525957 WO 9606629 WO 9900406 and WO 9913899 WO 03033528 EP01498422 and WO05010030. However disadvantages of peptides are often poor oral bioavailability or higher synthetic effort which is very disadvantageous especially for very long peptides composed of more than ten amino acids. Furthermore peptidic bonds in peptides composed of proteinogenic amino acids can be cleaved e.g. via proteases in biological fluids.

For the therapy of chronic diseases the use of orally bioavailable so called small molecules is particularly advisable. This term usually refers to compounds with a molecular weight up to 1000 g mol preferably up to 500 g mol which have only few peptidic structural features as e.g. peptide bonds. Examples of small molecule developments are amongst others L 156602 Merck Tsuji et al. 1992 Bioscience Biotechnologie and Biochemistry 56 2034 2036 TAN 2474 Takeda JP10182648 RPR120033 Rhone Poulenc Wong et al. 1999 IDrugs 2 686 W 54011 Mitsubishi Pharma Sumichika et al. 2002 Journal of Biological Chemistry 277 49403 and NGD 2000 1 Neurogen Shaw and Hutchison 220th ACS National Meeting Washington D.C. August 2000 . The development of these inhibitors is described in numerous patents and patent applications as for instance in the following WO0214265 WO0222556 WO0249993 WO03082829 WO03082828 WO03082826 WO03084524 WO04018460 US2004 0048913 U.S. Pat. No. 6 723 743 US2004 0082577 WO04043925 US2004 0116424 US2004 0158067 U.S. Pat. No. 6 777 422 UA2004 0204446 WO03082829 WO05007087 U.S. Pat. No. 6 858 637 U.S. Pat. No. 6 069 172 WO179189 WO02068377 WO03029187 WO02068377 and WO04043925.

Small molecules known up to now which interact with the C5a receptor either as antagonist or agonist are described in detail in the following section.

The first small molecule C5a receptor antagonist was developed by Merck Sharp and Dohme in the early 1990s. Successively positively charged molecules as e.g. compounds 1 and 2 were identified Merck Lanza et al. 1992 J. Med. Chem. 35 252 . These compounds showed moderate binding activities of 3.3 and 12 g ml 8.9 and 35.5 M respectively . However also undesired side effects were observed compound 7 inhibited the fMLF induced neutrophil activation and no further development or data were described. Instead Merck identified another series of C5a binding molecules Merck Laszlo et al. 1997 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 7 213 through screening of an in house library. The molecules with the highest affinity for the C5a receptor were compounds 3 and 4. However both compounds are agonists and the attempt to eliminate the agonistic activity via modifications of the structure failed. Other lead series as e.g. benzodiazepine L 747 981 Flanagan et al. 210th ACS National Meeting Chicago Ill. Aug. 20 24 1995 or tetrahydroimidazopyridine L 164 712 Kim et al. 210th ACS National Meeting Chicago Ill. Aug. 20 24 1995 were also not successful in this respect. During the last years no development was announced by the company Merck in the area of C5a receptor antagonists.

The company Rh ne Poulenc Rorer identified and optimized C5a receptor antagonists as well but no further development was reported Astles et al. 1997 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 7 907 . A reason for that could be that even the most active compound 5 RPR121154 and RPR120033 shows only a moderate activity of 0.8 M. The compound contains a guanidino moiety which often has a negative influence on oral bioavailability Reiner et al. 1992 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 12 120 . In addition it was described that the compound shows cytotoxicity Sumichika et al. 2002 J. Biol. Chem. 277 49403 .

The company Takeda also described compounds which interact with the C5a receptor e.g. TAN2474A and TAN2474B . However the compounds feature potentially reactive ketone and quinone or dihydroquinone groups. Further development of these compounds was not communicated.

Further small molecules whose interaction with the C5a receptor was described are compounds from the company DOMP S.P.A. as e.g. the compound 6 U.S. Pat. No. 6 069 172 WO0179189 WO02068377 or WO03029187 . However the compound shows only poor activity 24 M in a chemotaxis assay.

In the last years the company Neurogen filed a series of patent applications with respect to C5a receptor antagonists which disclose structures as the compounds 1 4 described e.g. in WO0249993 WO03082829 WO03082828 WO03082826 WO03084524 WO04018460 US2004 0048913 U.S. Pat. No. 6 723 743 US2004 0082577 WO04043925 US2004 0116424 US2004 0158067 U.S. Pat. No. 6 777 422 UA2004 0204446 WO03082829 WO05007087 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 858 637. The biological properties were specified only for a few compounds. To these belong 9 and 10 whose activity in an assay concerning the inhibition of C5a induced calcium mobilization was described to be 24 and 465 nM respectively. However further analysis of the compounds in a functional assay of C5a induced enzyme release by stablye transfected rat basophil cells expressing the human C5a receptor Example 28 shows that 9 and 10 have only a minor activity of 7152 nM or 4760 nM. Compound 8 which is claimed in the patent WO03082826 shows only very low activity 1917 nM in an enzyme release assay.

The company Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation filed patent applications with two principally different scaffolds which can be represented by 11 and 12 W 54011 . The compound 11 not only has got a poor activity Example 28 but also the disadvantage of a poor shelf life Example 25 . For W 54011 a very high biologic activity was described an ICvalue of 3.1 2.7 and 1.6 nM for the rhC5a induced calcium mobilization chemotaxis and ROS release was respectively measured Sumichika et al. 2002 J. Biol. Chem. 277 49403 . Sumichika described the compound as being more active in a binding assay than the peptide mimetic PMX53 a hexamer cyclic peptide with the formula Ac F OPchaWR and even more active than an anti C5a receptor monoclonal antibody Sumichika 2004 Curr. Opin. Invest. Drugs 5 505 . In an enzyme release assay according to Example 28W 54011 shows an IC50 value of 90 nM which is notedly bigger than the ICvalue given in the previously described assay. Despite this still satisfactory activity the compound has other disadvantages the solubility in PBS buffered aqueous solution is only 0.4 M and the chemical synthesis requires an enantioselective step or an enantiomer separation if there is the need to administer only one enantiomer. In the last years no further development or data concerning the compound W 54011 were published.

Finally it can be concluded that all small molecule inhibitors known until now as reported in the prior art show at least one of these disadvantages poor specificity agonistic activity poor affinity poor solubility in water poor shelf life chemical reactivity poor metabolic stability or inhibition of P450 enzymes. Clinical studies were carried out solely with one of the small molecule C5a inhibitors NGD 2000 1 of the company Neurogen Shaw and Hutchison 220th ACS National Meeting Washington D.C. August 2000 . Therein the efficacy of the C5a inhibitor was proven for the indication rheumatoid arthritis ACR improvement however the properties of the substance e.g. cytochrome inhibition were not adequate for a higher dosage in human in a way to reach a clinically relevant therapeutic efficacy press release of the company Neurogen www.neurogen.com 16.06.2004 . It is therefore desirable that new improved C5a receptor antagonists are developed which are suitable for oral administration.

The problem underlying the present application is the provision of C5aR antagonists. Another problem underlying the present invention is the provision of drugs that can be used for the treatment of diseases in which the C5a receptor and or C5a are involved in a causal indirect or symptomatic manner.

The problem underlying the present application is solved in a general manner by means of a compound having a molecular weight less than 700 an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety where the compound shows an antagonistic activity towards the C5a receptor of 

According to the present invention the problem is solved by a compound preferably a C5a receptor antagonist having the following structure I 

In one embodiment that is a preferred embodiment of the preceding embodiment the compound has the following structure III 

In one embodiment that is a preferred embodiment of the first embodiment the compound has the following structure IIIB 

In one embodiment that is a preferred embodiment of the first embodiment the compound has the following structure IIIC 

In one embodiment that is the preferred second embodiment the compound has the following structure IV and ist preferably a C5a receptor antagonist 

For reasons of convenience the above described compounds constitute an aspect of the present invention although the following recitation of further aspects starts with an aspect which is referred to as the first aspect. It will be acknowledged by the ones skilled in the art that the compounds of the above aspect can in principle be used in connection with any further aspect of the present invention including but not limited to the use of said compounds for the manufacture of a medicament which is to be used in accordance with the present invention.

In a first aspect which is also a first embodiment thereof the problem underlying the present invention is solved by a compound preferably a C5a receptor antagonist having the following structure IV 

In a second embodiment of the first aspect R1 R2 R3 R4 and R5 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl alkynyl cycloalkyl alkoxyl substituted alkoxyl acyloxy halogen nitro cyano acyl alkylthio substituted alkylthio amino substituted amino alkylamino substituted alkylamino bisalkyl amino cyclic amino carbamoyl CONH acylamino and substituted acylamino 

In a third embodiment of the first aspect R1 R2 R4 and R5 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H alkyl alkoxyl and halogen 

R3 is selected from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl alkynyl cycloalkyl alkoxyl acyl alkylthio substituted alkylthio alkylamino and substituted alkylamino 

In a fourth embodiment of the first aspect R1 R2 R4 and R5 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H Me OMe F Cl and Br 

In a fifth embodiment of the first aspect R6 R7 R8 R9 and R10 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl alkoxyl substituted alkoxyl acyloxy halogen nitro cyano acyl alkylthio substituted alkylthio amino substituted amino alkylamino substituted alkylamino bisalkyl amino substituted bisalkyl amino cyclic amino carbamoyl CONH and acylamino 

In a sixth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifth embodiment R6 R7 R9 and R10 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl aryl heteroaryl alkoxyl substituted alkoxyl halogen alkylthio substituted alkylthio amino substituted amino and cyclic amino 

R8 is selected from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl alkoxyl substituted alkoxyl halogen alkylthio substituted alkylthio amino substituted amino alkylamino substituted alkylamino bisalkyl amino substituted bisalkyl amino and cyclic amino or this moiety

In a seventh embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifth embodiment R6 R7 R9 and R10 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H Me CF OMe OCF F Cl Br and SCF 

In an eight embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment R11 and R12 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl and halogen 

In a ninth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the eight embodiment R11 and R12 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H Me Et CF and F 

In a tenth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment this moiety

In an eleventh embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the tenth embodiment R11 is H and R12 is selected from the group comprising H Me Et CFand F.

In a twelfth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment R13 and R14 are selected individually and independently from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl alkoxyl substituted alkoxyl halogen cyano alkylthio amino and substituted ammo.

In a thirteenth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the twelfth embodiment R13 and R14 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H Me CF OMe F Cl and Br.

In a fourteenth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment R15 R16 R17 R18 R19 and R20 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl alkoxyl substituted alkoxyl acyloxy halogen alkylthio substituted alkylthio amino substituted amino and carbamoyl CONH 

two or three of the substituents from the group comprising R15 R16 and R17 and or from the group comprising R18 R19 and R20 form together alkynyl substituted alkynyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl heterocyclyl aryl heteroaryl or keto.

In a fifteenth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the fourtheenth embodiment R15 R16 R17 R18 R19 and R20 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H Me CF and F.

In a sixteenth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment R21 and R22 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H alkyl substituted alkyl acyl substituted acyl alkylthio and substituted alkylthio 

In a seventeenth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixteenth embodiment R21 and R22 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H Me and CF 

In a second aspect which is also a first embodiment thereof the problem underlying the present invention is solved by a compound whereby the compound has one of the following structures

In an eighteenth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the compound has the following structure

In a nineteenth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the compound has one of the following structures 

In a twentieth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the compound has one of the following structures 

In a twenty first embodiment of the first aspect which is also a second embodiment of the second aspect which is an embodiment of any embodiments of the first and of the second aspect the compound is selected from the group comprising

In a twenty second embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty first embodiment the compound is selected from the group comprising

In a third aspect which is also a first embodiment thereof the problem underlying the present invention is solved by a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one compound according to any of the various embodiments of the first or second aspect and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In a fourth aspect which is also a first embodiment thereof the problem underlying the present invention is solved by the use of at least one compound according to any of the various embodiments of the first or second aspect for the manufacture of a medicament.

In a second embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is for the prevention and or treatment of a disease in connection with which the complement system is activated and or in connection with which the inhibition of the complement system causes an abatement of the symptoms.

In a third embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is for the prevention and or treatment of a disease in connection with which the inhibition of the activation of the C5a receptor alone and or in combination with other therapeutics causes an abatement of the symptoms.

In a fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second or third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease and or the symptoms are selected from the group comprising autoimmune diseases acute and chronic inflammatory diseases trauma local inflammations shock and burn injuries.

In a fifth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second or third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is a serious burn injury.

In a sixth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second or third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is a consequential damage caused by burn injury whereby the consequential damage comprises organ breakdown shock SIRS severe systemic inflammatory response syndrome sepsis edema formation intricacies during the removal of skin by surgery and fibrosis of skin or organs.

In a seventh embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first to fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is selected from the group comprising septic shock hemorrhagic shock SIRS systemic severe inflammatory response syndrom MOF multi organ failure acute respiratory insufficiency ARDS stroke apoplexia myocardial infarction reperfusion injury and acute injuries of the central nervous system.

In an eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the seventh embodiment of the fourth aspect the reperfusion injury occurs at one or multiple organs organ systems or body parts which are selected from the group comprising liver kidney intestine lung heart spleen urinary bladder stomach muscles skin extremities brain and pancreas.

In a ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the seventh and of the eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect acute consequences and or chronic consequences of a reperfusion injury are treated whereby preferably acute consequences are acute organ failure or the formation of necrotic areas and preferably chronic consequences are changes like the dilatative dilated cardiomyopathy or fibrosis preferably fibrosis caused by a trauma fibrosis caused by a myocardial infarction or by transplantation whereby the consequences are preferably a limited organ function.

In a tenth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect the reperfusion injury occurs after myocardial infarction.

In an eleventh embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect the reperfusion injury occurs at the kidney.

In a twelfth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect the reperfusion injury occurs after or during an aneurysm surgery.

In a thirteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to the fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is selected from the group comprising asthma myocarditis inflammatory bowel disease IBD morbus crohn and colitis ulcerosa inflammatory diseases of the eye glomerulonephritis inflammatory vascular diseases and local manifestations of systemic diseases.

In a fourteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the thirteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect the inflammatory disease of the eye is selected from the group comprising uveitis age related macular degeneration AMD diabetic retinopathy diabetic macular edema ocular pemphigoid keratoconjunctivitis Stevens Johnson syndrome and Graves opthalmophaty.

In a fifteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the fourteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect the inflammatory disease of the eye is age related macular degeneration.

In a sixteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the fourteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is a local manifestation of systemic diseases whereby the systemic disease is selected from the group comprising rheumatism SLE and type I and type II diabetes.

In a seventeenth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the fourteenth or sixteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect the manifestation is selected from the group comprising manifestations at the eye at or in the brain at the vessels at the heart at the lung at the kidney at the liver at the gastrointestinal tract at the spleen at the skin at bones at the lymphatic system and manifestations in the blood.

In an eighteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect the chronic inflammatory disease is an autoimmune disease whereby the autoimmune disease preferably is selected from the group comprising alopecia greata autoimmune hemolytic anemia AIHA cold type cold agglutinin disease autoimmune hemolytic anemia AIHA warm type Addison s anemia Morbus Biermer Antiphospholipid syndrome APS Arteriitis temporalis artheriosclerosis autoimmune adrenalitis autoimmune adrenal glands atrophie Addison s disease chronic fatigue syndrome CFIDS chronic inflammatory demyelinising polyneuropathie Churg Strauss syndrome Cogan syndrome colitis ulcerosa CREST syndrome diabetes mellitus type I Dermatitis Herpetiformis During dermatomyositis fibromoyalgitis chronic autoimmune gastritis Goodpasture s syndrome anti GBM mediated glomerulonephritis Guillain Barr syndrome GBS Polyradikuloneuritis Hashimoto Thyroiditis autoimmune Hepatitis idiopatc pulmonary fibrosis autoimmune thrombozytopenic purpura Morbus Werlhof autoimmune infertility autoimmune internal ear deafness AIED juvenile rheumathoid arthritis autoimmune cardiomyopathie Lambert Eaton syndrome lichen sclerosis discoid lupus erythematodes lyme disease Sharp syndrome Morbus Basedow Graves Disease Morbus Beh et Morbus Bechterew Spondylitis ankylosans Morbus M ni re Morbus Reiter multiple sclerosis MS Encephalomyelitis myasthenia gravis sympatic ophthalmia scarred pemphigoid bulloes pemphigoid Pemphigus vulgaris Polyarteriitis nodosa Polychondritis Panchondritis polyglandular autoimmune PGA syndrome Polymyalgia rheumatica Polymoysitis primary billiary cirrhosis primary autoimmune cholangitis psoriasis rheumathoid fever rheumatic arthritis sarkoidosis Morbus Boeck Besnier Boeck Schaumann disease Sj rgensen syndrome scleroremia celiac disease Stiff Man syndrome Moersch Woltmann syndrome systemic lupus erythematodes Takayasu Arteriitis aortic arch syndrome transient gluten intolerance Urticaria autoimmune uveitis vasculitides and vitiligo.

In a nineteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the thirteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect the inflammatory disease of the vessel is selected from the group comprising vasculitis vascular leakage and atherosclerosis.

In a twentieth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the nineteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect the vasculitis is selected from the group comprising primary vasculitis and secondary vasculitis.

In a twenty first embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the twentieth embodiment of the fourth aspect the primary vasculitis is selected from the group comprising the vasculitides Morbus Wegener Churg Strauss syndrome and microscopic polyangiitis.

In a twenty second embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the twentieth embodiment of the fourth aspect the secondary vasculitits is selected from the group comprising vasculitides caused by medicaments or by other diseases.

In a twenty third embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the twenty second embodiment of the fourth aspect the other diseases are selected from the group comprising AIDS hepatitis B hepatitis C and cytomegalie virus infection.

In a twenty fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the eighteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect the urticaria is selected from the group comprising spontaneous and physical urticaria and special forms of the urticaria.

In a twenty fifth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the twenty fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect the physical urticaria is selected from the group comprising urticaria factitia cold urticaria heat urticaria pressure urticaria and light urticaria.

In a twenty sixth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the twenty fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect the spontaneous urticaria is selected from the group comprising acute urticaria and chronic urticaria.

In a twenty seventh embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the twenty fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect the spontaneous urticaria is characterized by autoantibodies against IgE or the IgE receptor which can be detected.

In a twenty eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the twenty fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect the special forms of the urticaria are cholinergic urticaria adrenergic urticaria contact urticaria and urticaria that is caused by water aquagenic urticaria .

In a twenty ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is used for the prevention and or support of surgeries.

In a thirtieth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the twenty nineth embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament or the compound is used for the support and or for the prevention and or for the aftercare of a surgery whereby the surgery is selected from the group comprising CABG PCTA PTA MidCAB OPCAB thrombolysis organ transplantation aneurysma surgery and vascular obliteration clamping whereby preferably one aspect is to cease or prevent neurocognitive dysfunctions which possibly follow extracorporal circulation e.g. heart lung machine .

In a thirty first embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicamental support is used for thrombolytic treatment.

In a thirty second embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is applied in connection with a dialysis treatment before during or after the treatment.

In a thirty third embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is used for the prevention of damages to a transplanted organ and or an organ that will be transplanted.

In a thirty fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is used for the conservation or as a support for the conservation of organs that are designated to be transplanted.

In a thirty fifth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is used for the prophylaxis or treatment of a rejection reaction of a transplanted organ.

In a thirty sixth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the thirty third to thirty fifth embodiment of the fourth aspect the transplanted or designated to be transplanted organ is selected from the group comprising kidney liver lung heart skin horny skin pancreas and intestine.

In a thirty seventh embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the thirty third to thirty sixth embodiment of the fourth aspect the organ is for self donation preferably self donation of skin for the treatment of burn injuries or blood.

In a thirty eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is used for the prophylaxis of fibrotic events preferably treatment or prevention or reduction of scar tissue formation.

In a thirty ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the thirty eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect the fibrotic event can occur in one or several of the organs selected from the group comprising liver lung kidney skin heart and other organs.

In a fortieth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the medicament is used for the prophylaxis or treatment of the IgA nephropathy.

In a fifth aspect which is also a first embodiment thereof the problem underlying the present invention is solved by the use of a compound according to any of the first and the second aspect for the cosmetic treatment of a human or animal body.

In a forty first embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the thirteenth embodiment of the fourth aspect the inflammatory bowel disease is selected from the group comprising Morbus Crohn or ulcerative colitis.

In a forty second embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the first to third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is caused by intracellular parasites or viruses.

In a forty third embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the forty second embodiment of the fourth aspect the intracellular parasites are selected from the group comprising leishmania rickettsiae chlamydia coxiella plasmodia brucella mycobacteria listeria toxoplasmics and trypanosomes.

In a forty fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with one or several anti inflammatory and or one or several immunosuppressive therapeutics.

In a forty fifth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with one or several immunosuppressive therapeutics.

In a forty sixth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the forty fifth embodiment of the fourth aspect the combination is comprised of a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth embodiment and a medicament selected from the group comprising calcineurin inhibitors or a medicament comprising one or several substances selected from the group comprising Cyclosporine A Methotrexate Azathioprine FK506 Tacrolimus Rapamycine Leflunomide Mycophenolatmofetile Brequinar Mizoribine Thalidomide and Deoxyspergualine.

In a forty seventh embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with one or several antihistamines.

In a forty eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the forthy seventh embodiment of the fourth aspect the antihistamine is selected from the group comprising Meclozine Clemastine Dimetindene Bamipine Ketotifene Cetirizine Lovecetirizine Loratidine Desloratidine Azelastine Mizolastine Levocabastine Terfenadine Fexofenadine and Ebastine.

In a forty ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with one or several glucocorticoids.

In a fiftieth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the forty ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect the glucocorticoid is selected from the group comprising Betamethasone Effervescent Budesonide Cortisone Dexamethasone Elixir Hydrocortisone Methylprednisolone Prednisolone Prednisone and Triamcinolone.

In a fifty first embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with one or several antibiotics.

In a fifty second embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the fifty first embodiment of the fourth aspect the antibiotic is selected from the group comprising aminoglycosides lactam antibiotics glycopeptide antibiotics gyrase inhibitors Lincosamide makrolide antibiotics nitroimidazol derivates polypeptide antibiotics sulfonamides Trimethoprime and Tetracycline.

In a fifty third embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with one or several anti inflammatory agents and more preferably anti inflammatory biologicals.

In a fifty fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the fifty third embodiment of the fourth aspect the anti inflammatory agent is selected from the group comprising IL 10 Erlizumab TolerMab Rituximab Gomiliximab Basiliximab Daclizumab HuMax TAC Visilizumab HuMaxCD4 Clenoliximab MAX 16H5 TNX 100 Toralizumab Alemtuzumab CY 1788 Galiximab Pexelizumab Eculizumab ETI 104 FG 3019 Bertilimumab 249417 anti Faktor IX Abciximab YM 337 Omalizumab Talizumab Fontolizumab J695 anti IL12 HuMax IL 15 Mepolizumab Elsilimomab HuDREG Adalimumab Infliximab Certolizumab Afelimomab CytoFab AME 527 Vapaliximab Avastin Vitaxin Belimumab MLN 1202 Volociximab F200 anti 5 1 Efalizumab m60.11 anti CD11b Etanercept Onerecept Natalizumab and Siplizumab.

In a fifty fifth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with photodynamic therapy preferably photodynamic therapy with Visodyne.

In a fifty sixth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is AMD age related macular degeneration and AMD is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any of the third and the fourth aspects in combination with a medicament which is selected from the group comprising Visodyne VEGF inhibitors and 5 1 inhibitors.

In an fifty seventh embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with a medicament selected from the group comprising acetylsalicylic acid Ibuprofen Diclofenac and Naproxen.

In a fifty eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the third embodiment of the fourth aspect the disease is prevented and or treated with a medicament as defined in any embodiment of the fourth aspect in combination with a medicament which is selected from the group comprising antagonists of the bradykinine receptor 1 and antagonists of the bradykinine receptor 2.

In a fifty ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the fifty eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect the prevention and or treatment is for the treatment and or prevention of acute inflammatory diseases whereby the disease is selected from the group comprising sepsis severe burn injury reperfusion injury myocardial infarction organ rejection and hemorrhagic shock.

In a sixtieth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is an embodiment of the fifty ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect the prevention and or treatment is for the treatment and or prevention of chronic autoimmune diseases and or the treatment and or prevention of infectious diseases.

In a sixth aspect which is also a first embodiment thereof the problem underlying the present invention is solved by a combination of an antagonist of the bradykinine receptor 2 and a C5a receptor antagonist for the therapy of severe burn injury.

As used herein the term medicament according to the third or fourth aspect is a medicament which is or can be manufactured in accordance with the present disclosure using the compounds according to the invention or as defined in connection with any aspect of the present invention.

In connection with the present invention the following terms and expressions are preferably used in an interchangeable manner namely medicament formulation medication and pharmaceutical composition invention based compounds compound based on the present invention compounds of this invention compounds of the present invention and compounds in accordance with this the present invention. It will also be acknowledged by the ones skilled in the art that what is disclosed herein in connection with the one of these terms to be used and understood respectively in an interchangeable manner is also disclosed for such other terms or any terms obviously used in an interchangeable manner.

The present invention is based on the surprising finding that the bi and or tri substituted urea compounds disclosed in the present invention which exhibit at least one aromatic substituent at each of either N atoms of the urea compounds are potent antagonists of the C5a receptor.

Furthermore it was also surprisingly found that the advantageous properties arise in particular from the presence of the NR21R22 group at one of the two aromatic substituents of the urea derivatives disclosed in the present invention. This NR21R22 group in addition distinguishes the present compounds from the compounds claimed in the international patent applications WO0214265 and WO0222556 of the company Mitsubishi Pharma. In preferred embodiments of the present invention the NR21R22 group refers to an amino group.

Besides the high potency as C5a receptor antagonists the described compounds possess a set of other favorable properties e.g. higher specificity compared to the prior art lower agonistic activity higher affinity higher solubility in water longer shelf life lower chemical reactivity higher microsomal stability or lower inhibition of P450 enzymes. In particular this is also true for the compounds claimed in the international patent applications WO0214265 and WO0222556.

Without wishing to be bound by any theory in the following the present inventors assume that the NR21R22 group at the aromatic substituent is responsible for or involved in the improvement of a set of properties featured by the compounds in accordance with the present invention. This group can improve the solubility of the compounds in water since it can favourably interact with water molecules. Due to the ability to form H bonds this group can also favour the binding to biological receptors which could for instance explain the higher antagonistic activity. Due to a higher hydrophilic content this group can improve the receptor specificity or decrease the cytochrome inhibition since hydrophobic substances often tend to undergo unspecific binding and lead to high interaction with cytochromes.

Another aspect of the present invention is that some preferred compounds carry a stereo or chiral centre. Preferably the stereo centre is in alpha position to one aromatic ring and more preferably the stereo centre possesses the s configuration.

Choosing the ideal stereo centre for instance can positively influence the antagonistic activity of a compound.

Despite the positive properties of several compounds carrying a stereo centre also compounds without a stereo centre show very favorable properties. When a stereo centre exists this is preferably in the s configuration.

Another aspect of the present invention is that several compounds possess an H donor hydrogen bond donor at the R3 position in structure IV . In so far the present invention in particular also relates to those compounds that are included in the herein disclosed general formulas containing an H donor at one position which corresponds to the R3 position in structure IV .

Despite the positive properties of several compounds carrying an H donor at the R3 position also compounds without an H donor at the mentioned position show very favorable properties.

The positive characteristics of the compounds disclosed in the present invention can be unequivocally accomplished by means of further structural features of the compounds. In fact a higher chemical stability compared to compounds according to the prior art can be achieved by choosing suitable substituents. In Example 25 such an example is described A compound according to the prior art which has a very short shelf life is converted into a more stable compound disclosed in the present invention via the introduction of 5 different groups.

The compounds which are disclosed in the present invention were tested for their ICvalues in a functional assay system K hl 1997 The Anaphylatoxins. In Dodds A. W. Sim R. B. Eds. Complement A Practical Approach. Oxford 135 . Preferably all compounds are regarded to have noteworthy inhibitory activity in the sense of the present invention that have an ICvalue of less than 200 nM in a functional assay system as described in Example 31.

Particularly preferred examples for compounds according to the present invention are reported below and in Table 1 in each case the ICvalue is given for the inhibition of C5a induced enzyme release according to Example 31 

It is obvious that several compounds disclosed in the present invention show a noteworthy higher inhibitory activity if compared to compound W 54011 89 nM which is a compound of the prior art.

In a preferred embodiment the compounds disclosed in this invention do not posses any agonistic activity in a cellular assay up to a concentration of at least 7100 nM as shown in Example 32. An antagonist according to the present invention as preferably used herein shows no agonistic activity if the antagonist up to a concentration of at least 7100 nM preferably reaches less than 5 of the maximum C5a induced glucosamidase release. Particularly preferred is the release of up to 1 of the maximum C5a induced enzyme released at a concentration of a compound according to the present invention of 7100 nM in such an assay. Example 32 shows by way of example results from measurements with selected compounds according to the present invention using a method for determining C5aR agonistic activities. None of the investigated compounds is an agonist.

In the following some terms are set forth the meaning of which is to be used for embodiments of the present invention in particular those which are set forth herein in more detail. Although these terms are occasionally referred to as definitions the meaning of the various terms is not necessarily limited thereto.

The term contains means in preferred embodiments that the respective structural element is included but the structure is not limited to it.

The term substituted means in preferred embodiments that one or several hydrogen atoms of a group or a compound is are replaced by a different atom group of atoms molecule or group of molecules or a moiety or moieties. In connection therewith such an atom group of atoms molecules and group of molecules or a moiety or moieties itself themselves is are referred to as substituents or substitutions. A prerequisite for any substitution is that the normal valence of the respective atom is not exceeded and that the substitution results in a stable compound. By the substitution of two hydrogen atoms a carbonyl group C O can be generated. Carbonyl groups are preferably not present in aromatic moieties.

Substituents or substitutions can preferably be selected individually or in any combination from the group comprising hydroxyl alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl substituted alkenyl alkynyl substituted alkynyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl alkoxyl substituted alkokyl aryloxy substituted aryloxy arylalkyloxy substituted arylalkyloxy acyloxy substituted acyloxy halogen hydroxyl nitro cyano acyl substituted acyl mercapto alkylthio substituted alkylthio amino substituted amino alkylamino substituted alkylamino dialkylamino substituted dialkylamino cyclic amino substituted cyclic amino carbamoyl CONH substituted carbamoyl carboxyl carbamat alkoxycarbonyl substituted alkoxycarbonyl acylamino substituted acylamino sulfamoyl SONH substituted sulfamoyl haloalkyl haloalkyloxy C O H trialkylsilyl and azido. Each substituent itself can be substituted further by one or several further substituents. This applies particularly to alkyl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl aryl heteroaryl and aryloxy. Furthermore any definitions set forth herein apply also to substituents.

The term alkyl refers in an embodiment of the present invention to a saturated aliphatic radical consisting of from one to ten carbon atoms or a mono or polyunsaturated aliphatic hydrocarbon radical containing from two to twelve carbon atoms and at least one double and triple bound. The term alkyl includes both branched and unbranched alkyl groups. Unbranched alkyl groups having from one to eight carbon atoms are preferred. Unbranched alkyl groups having from one to six carbon atoms and branched alkyl groups having from three to six carbon atoms are particularly preferred. It should be understood that the term alkyl comprises any analogs which can be put together from combination terms of the prefix alk or alkyl .

In a preferred embodiment the abbreviation Me stands for a methyl group or radical the abbreviation Et for an ethyl group or radical and the abbreviation Pr for a propyl group or propyl radical.

For example the term alkoxy or alkylthio refers to an alkyl group which is linked by an oxygen or sulfur atom. Alkanoyl refers to an alkyl group which is linked by a carbonyl group C O .

The term cycloalkyl refers in an embodiment of the present invention to the cyclic derivatives of an alkyl group as defined above which is optionally unsaturated and or substituted. Saturated cycloalkyl groups are preferred particularly those having from three to eight carbon atoms. Particularly preferred are cycloalkyl groups having three to six carbon atoms.

The term aryl refers in an embodiment of the present invention to an aromatic group having from 6 to 14 carbon atoms whereby substituted aryl refers to aryl groups bearing one or more substituents.

Each of the above defined groups alkyl cycloalkyl and aryl comprise the respective halogenated derivatives whereby the halogenated derivatives may comprise one or several halogen atoms. The halogenated derivatives comprise any halogen radical as defined in the following.

The term halo refers in an embodiment of the present invention to a halogen radical selected from fluoro chloro bromo and iodo. Preferred halo groups are fluoro chloro and bromo.

The term heteroaryl refers in an embodiment of the present invention to a stable 5 to 8 membered preferably 5 or 6 membered monocyclic or 8 to 11 membered bicyclic aromatic heterocyclicradical whereby each heterocycle may consist of carbon atoms and from 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. The heterocycle may be linked by any atom of the cycle creating a stable structure. Within the present invention preferred heteroaryl radicals are for example furanyl thienyl pyrrolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl thiadiazolyl pyridinyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl indolizinyl indolyl isoindolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl indazolyl benzimidazolyl benzthiazolyl benzoxazolyl purinyl quinolizinyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl cinnolinyl phthalazinyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthridinyl pteridinyl carbazolyl acridinyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl and phenoxazinyl.

The term heterocyclyl refers in an embodiment of the present invention to a stable 5 to 8 membered preferably 5 or 6 membered monocyclic or 8 to 11 membered bicyclic heterocyclic radical which may be either saturated or unsaturated but is not aromatic. Each heterocycle consists of carbon atoms and from 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. The heterocycle may be linked by any atom of the cycle which results in a stable structure. Preferred heterocyclic radicals within the present invention include for example pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl pyranyl thiopyranyl piperazinyl indolinyl azetidinyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl hexahydropyrimidinyl hexahydropyridazinyl 2 5 dioxo hexahydro pyrimidin 4 yl 2 6 dioxo piperidin 4 yl 2 oxo hexahydro pyrimidin 4 yl 2 6 dioxo hexahydro pyrimidin 4 yl 3 6 dioxo piperazin 2 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydropyrimidin 2 ylamine dihydro oxazolyl 1 2 thiazinanyl 1 1 dioxide 1 2 6 thiadiazinanyl 1 1 dioxide isothiazolidinyl 1 1 dioxide and imidazolidinyl 2 4 dione.

When the terms heterocyclyl heteroaryl and aryl are used together with other expressions and terms the above definitions are further applicable. For example aroyl refers to a phenyl or naphthyl group linked to a carbonyl group C O .

Each aryl or heteroaryl compound also includes its partially or fully hydrogenated derivatives. For example quinolinyl may also include decahydroquinolinyl and tetrahydroquinolinyl. Naphthyl may also include the hydrogenated derivatives such as tetrahydronaphthyl.

Within the present invention the terms nitrogen or N and sulfur or S include any oxidized derivative of nitrogen like nitrones N oxides or of sulfur like sulfoxides sulfones and the quaternized forms of any basic nitrogen like HCl or other salts known to the one skilled in the art.

The term bond as preferably used herein together with substituents refers preferably to single bond unless otherwise specified.

Radicals can be any of mono di tri and tetra radicals. Because of this it is possible that the meaning of various terms slightly changes. For example a di radical described as propyl inevitably means propyplene e.g. CH .

Any wording which specifies the limits of a range such as e.g. from 1 to 5 means any integer from 1 to 5 i.e. 1 2 3 4 and 5. In other words any range that is defined by two integers comprises both the two integers defining said limits of the definition and any integer comprised in said range.

The present invention also comprises all isotopes of atoms of the described compounds. Isotopes are atoms having the same atomic number but different mass numbers. For example tritium and deuterium are isotopes of hydrogen. Examples for carbon isotopes are C C and C.

As used herein in connection with the definition of the groups the term and respective derivatives thereof refers to the fact that all derivatives of the individual compounds groups of compounds parts of molecules moieties radicals or chemical groups as recited in the respective group can each be present as derivatives. It is generally within the scope of the present invention that by using specific group definition the use of the correspondent derivatives is also implied.

As used herein the term individually and independently from each other or in each case individually and independently refers to the fact that the two or more substituents mentioned can be designed as described in the respective paragraph. The wording individually and independently shall only avoid unnecessary repetitions and discloses that any of the mentioned substituents can exhibit the described arrangement whereby the arrangement for each substituent is made individually or is individually present and is not affected by the selection of one or several of the other substituents. It is within the scope of the present invention to claim any combination including any subcombination of the collectively defined residues or substitutions with each other and or among each other.

It is generally within the scope of the present invention that the substituents described for the individual compounds according to the present invention in particular for the generic structures are also applicable to all of the generic formulas with the corresponding substituents if not indicated to the contrary.

Any compound disclosed in the present invention containing one or more asymmetric carbon atom can occur as racemic mixture or mixture of enantiomers individual enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixture individual diastereoisomers or in each case a mixture of them. All such isomeric forms of the compounds are covered in the present invention. Each stereogenic carbon atom can be in the S or R configuration or in a mixture of both configurations.

It is within the scope of the present invention that the compounds of this invention are pharmaceutically active compounds. Such pharmaceutically active compounds could arise from the compounds of this invention through metabolism and any form of breakdown or degradation. Relevant reactions are known to the ones skilled in the field Yan et al. 2001 Curr. Top. Med. Chem. 1 403 Fura et al. 2004 J. Med. Chem. 47 4339 Lin et al. 1997 Pharmacological Reviews 49 403 and references cited therein . Furthermore it is within the scope of the present invention that these precursors are converted to the compounds referred to herein. These precursors can for example be so called pro drugs. Relevant generally applicable concepts for producing pro drugs from the compounds of this invention are know in the field Anand et al. 2002 Expert Opin. Biol. Ther. 2 607 Majumdar et al. 2004 Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 56 1437 Wang et al. 1999 Curr. Pharm. Des. 5 265 Shan et al. 1997 J. Pharm. Sci. 86 765 and references cited therein .

The present invention is also related to formulations and compositions respectively in particular pharmaceutical formulations and compositions which contain at least one of the compounds according to the invention. Frequently pharmaceutically active compounds or drugs are combined with other pharmaceutically acceptable ingredients or excipients in order to ensure an improved efficacy like improved transport shelf life release behaviour over time and the like. A variety of such appropriate formulations are known to the one skilled in the art. Ingredients of such formulations are among others inert diluents calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose calcium phosphate sodium phosphate starch alginate gelatine magnesium stearate and talcum. Certain ingredients can be added in order to allow for a retarded release of the pharmaceutically active compounds. Respective examples are glycerol monostearate and glycerol distearate. For oral application in particular hard gelatine capsules are used whereby the pharmaceutically active ingredient is admixed with calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin. For soft gelatine capsules the pharmaceutically active compounds are admixed e.g. with oils peanut oil liquid paraffin olive oil . For the application in aqueous solutions the pharmaceutically active ingredients can be admixed in particular with the following components carboxymethyl cellulose methyl cellulose hydropropylmethyl cellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone lecithin polymer products of alkylene oxides and fatty acids as for example polyoxyethylenestearate heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol polyoxyethylenesorbitol monooleate and polyoxyethylenesorbitane monooleate. For the purpose of preservation different additives may be used. Respective examples are ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate.

Particular formulations are used to permit specific forms of application. The compounds of this invention can be provided as pharmaceutically acceptable salts or solvate. Depending on the individual disease to be treated the compounds of this invention could be administered systemically or locally preferably systemically with systemic diseases and locally with local diseases e.g. alopecia greata and formulated accordingly. Examples of procedures for formulation and administration are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1990 18edition Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. The administration of a compound based on the presented invention can be achieved in various ways including but not limited to oral buccal subcutaneous intravenous intranasal transdermal intraperitonial intramuscular intrapulmonary vaginal rectal intraocular periocular intraorbital intracapsular intasynovial intracisternal or topical to mention just a few.

For nasal application the compounds would be used pure or mixed with the usual additives for this method such as stabilisers or inert dilution agents and delivered through the usual methods such as aqueous alcohol or oil suspensions or aqueous alcohol or oil solutions in suitable forms of administration. Chelate forming substances such as ethylene diamine N N N N tetra acetic acid citric acid tartaric acid or their salts can be added to aqueous intranasal preparations. The application of nasal solutions can be achieved using dosage sprays or as nose drops with viscosity increasing components nose gels or nose creams.

Nebulizers or pressurized gas capsules using inert carrier gases can be used for inhalation applications.

A preparation for topical application can be available as an aqueous or oil solution lotion emulsion or gel ointment or cream or if possible in spray form whereby if required the adhesion can be improved by addition of a polymer.

A suitable dosage range for topical and inhalation applications of the discovery based compounds are solutions with 0.01 to 5 mg ml. Solutions with 0.01 to 50 mg kg are suitable for systemic applications.

For injection purposes the compounds of this invention can be formulated as aqueous solutions with or without dissolving aids preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hank s solution Ringer solution or physiological saline buffer. For transmuscular administration penetrance agents are used that help the invention based compounds to overcome penetrance barriers. Such penetrance agents are known in state of the art techniques.

The use of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for formulating the compounds based on the present invention in dosage form or with pharmaceutical preparations or compositions that are particularly suitable for systemic administration is within the scope of the present invention. A suitable choice of carrier and a suitable production procedure will allow the preparations of the present invention particularly if as a solution to be administered parenterally for example by intravenous injection. The compounds of this invention can easily be formulated in a dosage form by using pharmaceutically acceptable carriers which are well known in current techniques and which are suitable for oral administration. Such carriers allow the compounds from the presented invention to be formulated as tablets pills capsules lozenges fluids gels syrups pastes suspensions etc. for oral consumption by a patient under treatment.

In addition suspensions of the active compound can be produced as suitable oil based injection suspensions. Suitable lipophile solvents or vesicles surround fatty oils such as sesame or castor oil or synthetic fatty acid esters such as ethyloleate triglycerides or liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions can contain compounds that increase the viscosity of the suspension such as carboxymethyl cellulose sorbitol dextran etc. As an option the suspension can also contain suitable stabilisers or agents that increase the solubility of the compound to permit production of highly concentrated solutions.

Pharmaceutical preparations or compositions that contain a compound based on the present invention for oral applications can be obtained by combining the active compound s with solid binding substances. As an option the resulting mixture can be ground and prepared as granules according to the suitability of the added substance as required to produce tablets or the contents of sugar coated pills.

Suitable binding agents are in particular additives such as sugar including lactose saccharose manitol sorbitol and similar substances cellulose preparations such as corn wheat rice and potato starch gelatine gum extract methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose sodium carboxymethyl cellulose polyvinyl pyrrolidon PVP etc. as well as mixtures of two or more of these. If desired expanding substances can be added such as cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidon alginic acid or a salt of this such as sodium alginate and similar compounds.

The content of coated pills that contain a pharmaceutical preparation or a compound of the present invention are coated with suitable substances. For this purpose concentrated sugar solutions can be used that can as an option contain gum arabic talcum powder polyvinyl pyrrolidon carbopol gel polyethylene glycol titanium dioxide suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures and similar substances. Colouring or pigments can be added to the tablet or coated pill surface to serve as identification or indicate various combinations or different dosages of the active compound.

Pharmaceutical preparations that contain a compound of the present invention and that can be used orally mainly include push fit capsules that are made from gelatine as well as soft capsules made of gelatine and a softening agent such as glycerine or sorbitol. The push fit capsules can contain the active agent in a mixture with a volume additive such as lactose binding substance such as starch and or spreading substance such as talcum powder or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. With soft capsules the active compound can be suspended or dissolved in a suitable liquid such as oils liquid paraffin or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition stabilizers can be added.

In one embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical preparation or compositions of the present invention comprises at least one compound of the present invention in a form that is suitable for administration to a patient. Preferably a compound of the presented invention is generally and in particular available in an aqueous form in a pharmaceutical preparation based on the presented invention for example in a pharmaceutically acceptable salt which within the framework of the presented invention can either be an acidic or basic addition salt that is also generally described as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt here. Acidic addition salt in particular pharmaceutically acceptable acidic addition salt describes those salts that retain the biological efficacy of the free base and are not biologically medically or in any other way undesirable. These salts are primarily formed with inorganic salts such as hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids such as acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid maleic acid malonic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid salicylic acid and the like. Base addition salts and more particularly pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include those derived from inorganic bases such as sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum salts and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium potassium sodium calcium and magnesium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins. Preferred amines to form salts are isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine dicyclohexylamine triethylamine tripropylamine and ethanolamine.

A patient for the purpose of the present invention i.e. a living being who is administered a compound of the presented invention or a pharmaceutical preparation of the present invention includes humans as well as animals and other organisms. This means the field of application for the compounds of the presented invention and their pharmaceutical preparation covers the area of human and also veterinary medicine as well as diagnostics and diagnostic procedures and staging procedures for both of these fields. Veterinary medical applications cover but are not limited to monkeys dogs cattle cats pigs donkeys horses farm animals as well as house pets as well as reptiles such as tortoises snakes and iguanas birds such as finches and members of the parrot family lagomorphs such as rabbits rodents such as rats mice guinea pigs hamsters amphibians fish and arthropods. Patients can also be zoo animals. Preferably the patient is a mammal and more preferably the patient is human.

In a further aspect the present invention applies to a method or procedure for the treatment and or therapy of diseases whereby the method of administration to a patient covers at least one of the invention based compounds or a compound of the presented invention. A compound and or preparation will preferably be administered in an amount and or form that is suitable for preventing alleviating or treating the disease or associated symptoms. Furthermore this is preferably to be administered to a patient who is in need for such treatment or prevention.

Diseases that are preferably associated in conjunction with the various aspects of the present invention are preferably those involved directly i.e. causal indirectly or symptomatically with the C5a or C5a receptor. Preferred are also inflammatory diseases associated with an activation of the complete system.

Without wishing to be bound to specific details in the following the presenting inventors are currently focusing on two fundamental pathogenic mechanisms of C5a. The first mechanism involves processes that are triggered directly by the effect of C5a on cells that express the C5a receptor. Cell types that express the receptor include the following astrocytes microglia neurons granulocytes neutrophiles basophiles eosinophiles mast cells endothelial cells epithelial cells macrophages T cells dentritic cells hepatic cells cells of the kidney e.g. glomeruli and the tubolointerstitium the lungs and the smooth muscles. The direct action of C5a is very diverse and depends on the observed cell type. Examples of direct action are chemotaxis and degranulation of granulocytes. Degranulation in turn subsequently leads to the indirect effect of damaging surrounding tissues e.g. by matrix metalloproteases oxygen radicals elastase etc. . A further direct effect is the delay of apoptosis in neutrophiles by C5a Perianayagam et al. 2004 European Journal of Clinical Investigations 34 50 or the production of Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor 1 in mast cells and basophiles Wojita 2002 Blood 100 517 . The second fundamental pathogenic mechanism include processes that are induced indirectly via C5a. This includes influencing the adaptive immune defence by C5a and changes in the cytokine pattern which can be observed by the effect of C5a on cytokine secreting cells Jauneau et al. 2003 FEBS Letters 537 17 . These effects are also induced by cells that do not belong to the inherited immune system the C5a receptor is also found on T cells Nataf et al. 1999 Journal of Immunology 162 4018 B cells or antigen presenting cells APCs . The altered cytokine pattern can lead to different differentiation of T cells into Th1 or Th2 cells primarily through a dosage dependent change in release of IL 12 Hawlisch et al. 2004 Molecular Immunology 41 123 . Further important cytokines that influence T cell differentiation are for example IL 2 IL 4 IL 5 IL 10 IL 23 and IL 27. Similar results are also known from genetically modified mouse strains lacking the C5 gene. These animals produce significantly less IL 12 than the corresponding control strains.

The cytokine pattern altered by C5a can also result in the immune system being less effective in combating intracellular parasites e.g. viruses leishmania rickettsia chlamydia coxiella plasmodia brucella mycobacteria listeria toxoplasma trypanosomes . Hawlisch et al. 2005 Immunity 22 415 showed that mice that do not express the C5a receptor are significantly more resistant to leishmania infection than the corresponding control animals expressing the functional receptor. This means it is possible that diseases caused by intracellular parasites or viruses can be treated or treatment can be supported by using a C5a receptor antagonist according to this invention for therapy or supportive therapy.

The impact of influencing the cytokine pattern is not limited to changing the balance between Th1 and Th2 cells. However for many diseases it has been shown that changes in this balance are decisive for their pathogenesis Bamias et al. 2001 Current Opinion Investigational Drugs 11 1279 Lucey et al. 1996 Clinical Microbiology Reviews 9 532 .

Finally numerous processes are indirectly influenced by C5a. Here of course organs and cells that express very little or no C5a receptors can also be affected.

It is often not possible to separate the two pathogenic mechanisms such that any disease can clearly be ascribed to one of the two processes. One can however assume that the first pathogenic mechanism is more important in acute inflammatory reactions while the second pathogenic mechanism plays a role in chronic and immune or autoimmune diseases. But the dividing line is diffuse as shown for example by acute sepsis where in animal models a C5a blockade knock out animals antibodies or antagonists can relieve disturbances in chemotaxis and the oxidative burst of neutrophiles as well as positively influence the cytokine pattern cytokine storm Huber Lang et al. 2002 FASEB Journal 16 1567 Ward 2004 Nature Review Immunology 4 133 Riedenmann et al. 2003 Immunity 19 193 Riedenmann et al. 2003 Nature Medicine 9 517 Czermak et al. 1999 Nature Medicine 5 788 Huber Lang et al. 2001 FASEB Journal 15 568 Huber Lang et al. 2001 Journal of Immunology 166 1193 .

The source of C5a is of secondary importance. It is possible that C5a is released through activation of the complement system e.g. the classical alternative or MBL pathways or directly from certain cells e.g. phagocytotic cells Huber Lang 2002 American Journal of Pathology 161 1849 .

Examples for acute indications or indications that can proceed with acute phases associated with C5a and therefore that could be treated with a compound of this invention or medication of this invention are asthma K hl 2001 Molecular Immunology 38 51 inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease Colitis ulcerosa Woodruff et al. 2003 Journal of Immunology 171 5514 sepsis or septic shock Huber Lang et al. 2001 Faseb Journal 15 568 severe burn injuries Piccolo et al. 1999 Experimental and Molecular Pathology 66 220 and the acute consequences of severe burn injuries organ failure shock sepsis SIRS multiple sclerosis Mullerladner et al. 1996 Journal of Neurological Science 144 135 and reperfusion damage to different organs such as the heart heart attack spleen bladder pancreas stomach lungs liver kidneys extremities brain stroke muscles or intestines Riley et al. 2000 Journal of Thoriacic and Cardiovascular Surgery 120 350 .

Based on the two pathogenic mechanisms described also all inflammatory or immuno inflammatory diseases could be treated or undergo preventative treatment using the compounds of the present invention. K hl 2001 Molecular Immunology 38 51 provides an overview of the inflammatory diseases associated with C5a.

Immune complex associated diseases Heller et al. 1999 Journal of Immunology 163 985 are similarly diseases that could be treated with the C5a receptor antagonists of the present invention. An example of an immune complex associated or immune complex induced disease is glomerulonephritis.

Accordingly diseases caused by infections such as myocarditis also belong to those diseases that could be treated with one of the compounds or medications of the present invention. Similarly a therapeutic procedure with a C5a receptor antagonist is possible with several diseases of the eye such as uveitis age related macular degradation diabetic retinopathy diabetic macular oedema ocular pemphigoid keratoconjunctivitis Stevens Johnson syndrome and Graves opthalmopathy.

It could be shown in an animal model of age related macular degradation AMD that the pro inflammatory part of the disease is induced by C5a among other things Ambati et al. 2003 Nature Medicine 9 1390 . Therefore this indication is also a candidate for therapy with one of the compounds of this invention.

In accordance with the novel approach to influence T cell populations and other cell types respectively which are affected by an altered cytokine pattern by a C5a receptor antagonist according to the present invention it is possible for example to also influence primarily T cell induced immune responses. Such an application opens up the possibility of treating a large spectrum of difficult to treat immune or autoimmune diseases with the compounds and medications respectively according to the present invention. In particular the group of autoimmune diseases includes but is not limited to the following diseases Alopecia greata cold agglutinin immunohemolytic anemia cold agglutinin disease warm antibody immunohemolytic anemia pernicious anemia Biermer s disease Addison s anemia antiphospholipid antibody syndrom APS arteriitis temporalis atherosclerosis autoimmune adrenalitis autoimmune adrenal cortex athrophy Addison s disease chronic fatigue immune dysfunction syndrome CFIDS chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Churg Strauss syndrome Cogan s syndrome ulcerative colitis CREST syndrome diabetes mellitus type I dermatitis herpetiformis dermatomyositis fibromyalgia chronic autoimmune gastritis Goodpasture syndrome anti GBM antibody related glomerulonephritis Guillain Barr syndrome GBS Polyradiculoneuropathy Hashimoto thyroiditis autoimmune hepatitis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis immunothrombocytopenice purpura Werlhof s disease autoimmune infertility autoimmune inner ear deafness AIED juvenile rheumatoid arthritis autoimmune cardiomyopathy Lambert Eaton syndrome Lichen sclerosis Lupus erythematosus particularly the dicoide form Lyme arthritis Lyme s disease collagenosis Basedow s disease Graves disease Beh et disease Bechterev s disease ankylosing spndylitis Crohn s disease M ni re s disease Reiter s disease multiple sclerosis MS encephalomyelitis myasthenia gravis myasthenia sympathic ophtalmia scaring pemphigoid bullous pemphigoid pemphigus vulgaris polyarteriitis nodosa polychondritis panchondritis polyglandular autoimmune PGA syndrome polymyalgia rheumatica polymoysitis primary biliary cirrhosis primary autoimmune cholangitis psoriasis rheumatic fever rheumatoid arthritis sarcoidosis Besnier Boeck Schaumann s disease Sj rgen s syndrome scleroderma sprue celiac disease stiff man syndrome Moersch Woltmann syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus Takayasu arteritis aortic arch syndrome transient gluten intolerance urticaria autoimmune uveitis vasculitis and vitiligo white spot disease .

Vasculites have to be considered as a form of immune or autoimmune diseases. In more detail They are a group of different inflammatory diseases of the vessels. Primary and secundary vasculites are sub groups of the vasculites. Primary vasculites are triggered by autoantibodies found in patients. One primarily preferred group of vasculites which can be treated with the compounds according to the invention is the group of vasculites which are triggered by cytoplasmatic anti neutrophile antibodies ANCA . To this group belongs e.g. Wegener s disease Wegener s granulomatosis Churg Strauss syndrome and microscopic polyangiitis. Secondary vasculites are e.g. drug induced vasculites and vasculites which are induced through diseases like AIDS hepatitis B or C or cytomegaly virus infection.

In the course of the primary disease forms leukoplastic vasculitis and or tissue infiltration with eosinophils which is also called Churg Strauss syndrome can occur. The diseases are characterized by e.g. a deposit of immune complexes and an activation of the complement system. Additionally the autoantibodies against the neutrophils activate them leading to the production and release of reactive oxygen. This leads additionally to a damage of e.g. endothelial cells. Neutrophils and other leukocytes carry the C5a receptor and can be activated by binding of C5a.

Without therapy Wegner s disease can be rapidly fatal. Mostly patients die because of acute lung or renal failure. The current treatment includes unspecific suppression of the excessive immune response with drugs like cyclophosphamide glucocorticoids methotrexate mycophenolate mofetil azathioprine or leflunomide. These therapies are associated with numerous side effects like increased infections and decrease in white blood cell counts. Therefore a more targeted and safer therapy for this indication is needed and can be provided by treatment with compounds according to the present invention.

The term urticaria covers a whole range of different forms of blister rashes. They are divided into spontaneous acute and chronic urticaria and physical urticaria urticaria factitia urticaria e frigore urticaria e calore urticaria mechanica urticaria solaris Zuberbier et al. 2001 Journal of Investigative Dermatology Symposium Proceedings 6 123 . In addition there are particular forms of urticaria such as cholinergic urticaria adrenergic urticaria contact urticaria and urticaria caused by water.

Particularly for chronic urticaria it has been shown experimentally that the complement system and particularly C5a participate in the release of histamine in the course of the disease Kaplan et al. 2004 Current Reviews of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 114 465 . A therapy for urticaria with C5a inhibitors would seem a highly appropriate a novel approach.

A further aspect of the indirect action of C5a is for example fibrosis. The chemotaxis of neutrophiles and other leucocytes to the location of an inflammation induced by C5a can in part resulting from this infiltration lead to increased fibrosis there. However C5a can also act directly on cells from the affected organs resulting in increased fibrotic events. C5a inhibition reduces the degree of fibrosis in a number of organs and diseases. Examples of this are liver fibrosis lung fibrosis fibrosis in the kidneys skin and other organs. Fibrotic events also occur with myocardial infarction and can play a decisive role in reduced ejection performance of the heart following healing of the infarction. Similarly reduced or loss of function of kidneys and other organs following transplantation can be traced back to fibrosis and other factors. Therefore the C5a receptor antagonists of this invention could be used to prevent or reduce fibrotic events.

Based on the pathogenic mechanisms described there are further applications for the compounds according to the present invention which are also referred to herein as invention based compounds for support and follow up treatment of patients receiving organ transplants such as kidneys liver lung heart skin particularly self donors with burn injuries cornea pancreas or intestine. This can act positively on the acute rejection reaction by reducing reperfusion damage and the chronic rejection reaction by modulating the cytokine pattern . C5a plays a direct or indirect role in each of these processes. Therefore transplantation is a potential application area for C5a receptor antagonists of this invention.

Another option is the use of a substance or compound of this invention or at least a preparation derived from one of these for conserving organs to be transplanted. In one embodiment a C5a receptor antagonist should be used to pre treat the donor and treat the organ and or the recipient. Preferably the compound of this invention would be used more preferably the same compound of this invention would be used at all stages of the procedure. A combined treatment of the organ donor and or recipient also seems to be appropriate. Such organs could be for example kidneys liver lung heart skin particularly self donors with burn injuries cornea pancreas or intestine.

In principle every surgical event represents a trauma that according to its severity could well be treated with a C5a receptor antagonist of the present invention. Examples here are CABG PTCA PTA MidCAB OPCAB thrombolysis organ transplantation aneurysmal operations and vascular occlusion clamping . One additional aspect is reducing or preventing possible neurocognitive dysfunction or local and or systemic reperfusion damage resulting from extra corporal circulation e.g. heart lung machine or dialysis . In particular this could be used as a prophylactic approach by treating the patient before surgery or reperfusion.

Several systemic diseases result in local manifestations that could be treated with a C5a receptor antagonist. Examples here are the local manifestations of rheumatism SLE and type I and II diabetes which can affect the eyes brain blood vessels heart lungs kidneys liver gastrointestinal tract spleen skin bones lymphatic system and the blood.

In addition C5a receptor antagonists could be usefully used to prevent or treat haemorrhagic shock if large amounts of fluid have to be administered to stabilize the circulatory system. The condition of haemorrhagic shock is comparable with systemic ischaemia. If the circulation is restabilized by the infusion of liquid this results in a situation comparable to reperfusion damage.

A therapy with a medicament or medication of the present invention can be carried out alone or with other therapeutic agents. Here anti inflammatory and immunosuppressive therapeutic agents are particularly well suited. Here the term combination therapy is preferably used to mean the combination of two or more therapeutically active compounds. The combination can be carried out on several levels and includes but is not limited to the following examples. The combination can be a pharmaceutical formulation including two or at least two of several therapeutically active compounds. A further embodiment can comprise two or at least two of several therapeutically active compounds that are contained in two or more different pharmaceutical formulations but the formulations are contained in one package usually accompanied by instructions which describe the temporal relationship in applying administering or taking these formulations. Finally in terms of a preferred finalized form a combination can also comprise two or at least two of several therapeutically active compounds in different formulations and in different packaging. Preferably at least one of the packages should contain instructions describing the temporal relationship in applying administering or taking these formulations. In the context of combination therapies as preferably described here it is within the framework of the presented invention that the term for various formulations also includes those embodiments containing different formulations and the differences in the formulations depend ultimately on the therapeutically active compound contained in the formulation.

There are currently already therapeutic procedures for most of the disease whose pathogenic mechanism can be treated with an C5a receptor antagonist of this invention. In many cases however these procedures are unsatisfactory and or the side effects of the administered medications are high. It is therefore desirable to improve the therapeutic effect of an existing therapy or one under development or to reduce the dosage of therapeutic agents with side effects through combinations with an invention based C5a receptor antagonist. Described below are several existing therapies and the medications or drugs used which within the framework of the present invention could be used in conjunction with the compounds and or medications of this invention.

In connection with the indication transplantation immunosuppressive therapeutic agents are used in particular to prevent chronic transplant rejection. The mechanism of action of current immunosuppressive agents is quite different from the mechanism of action of the compounds of this invention. Therefore one might expect an additive or synergistic effect of the two therapy approaches. A combination comprising current immunosuppressive agents and the compounds of this invention is therefore very appropriate. Examples of current immunosuppressive agents are calcineurin inhibitors or other substances such as cyclosporin A methotrexate azathioprine FK506 tacrolimus rapamycin leflunomide mycophenolatemofetil brequinar mizoribin and deoxyspergualin. These immunosuppressive agents are also used for other indications. A combination comprising the compounds of this invention and immunosuppressive agents is therefore relevant for other indications such as Alopecia greata cold agglutinin immunohemolytic anemia cold agglutinin disease warm antibody immunohemolytic anemia pernicious anemia Biermer s disease Addison s anemia antiphospholipid antibody syndrom APS arteriitis temporalis atherosclerosis autoimmune adrenalitis autoimmune adrenal cortex athrophy Addison s disease chronic fatigue immune dysfunction syndrome CFIDS chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy Churg Strauss syndrome Cogan s syndrome ulcerative colitis CREST syndrome diabetes mellitus type I dermatitis herpetiformis dermatomyositis fibromyalgia chronic autoimmune gastritis Goodpasture syndrome anti GBM antibody related glomerulonephritis Guillain Barr syndrome GBS Polyradiculoneuropathy Hashimoto thyroiditis autoimmune hepatitis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis immunothrombocytopenice purpura Werlhof s disease autoimmune infertility autoimmune inner ear deafness AIED juvenile rheumatoid arthritis autoimmune cardiomyopathy Lambert Eaton syndrome Lichen sclerosis Lupus erythematosus particularly the dicoide form Lyme arthritis Lyme s disease collagenosis Basedow s disease Graves disease Beh et disease Bechterev s disease ankylosing spndylitis Crohn s disease M ni re s disease Reiter s disease multiple sclerosis MS encephalomyelitis myasthenia gravis myasthenia sympathic ophtalmia scaring pemphigoid bullous pemphigoid pemphigus vulgaris polyarteriitis nodosa polychondritis panchondritis polyglandular autoimmune PGA syndrome polymyalgia rheumatica polymoysitis primary biliary cirrhosis primary autoimmune cholangitis psoriasis rheumatic fever rheumatoid arthritis sarcoidosis Besnier Boeck Schaumann s disease Sj rgen s syndrome scleroderma sprue celiac disease stiff man syndrome Moersch Woltmann syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus Takayasu arteritis aortic arch syndrome transient gluten intolerance urticaria autoimmune uveitis vasculitis and vitiligo white spot disease .

Urticaria is primarily treated with anti histamine agents. It is known for example that with chronic urticaria C5a plays a vital role in the activation of mast cells via autoantibodies that bind to the IgE receptor or the Fc region of IgE. Therefore a combination of anti histamine and the therapeutic agents of this invention is relevant and also promises relief from the disease symptoms in patients who respond poorly or not all to anti histamine agents.

Glucocorticoids e.g. prednisolon are used in a large number of different indications. These substances can be used particularly for diseases involving inflammatory or autoimmune responses. Examples of diseases where combination therapy with glucocorticoids and C5a receptor antagonists are relevant are rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease COPD uveitis keratoconjunctivitis asthma Bechterew s disease multiple sclerosis Wegener s disease and many other immune and autoimmune diseases.

Bacterial and other infections can overload the human immune system and or a systemic infection can set in motion a massive activation of the defence mechanisms which can lead to adverse reactions in those affected. The most prominent example is septic shock which can be triggered by for example a systemic bacterial infection or the release of sufficient amounts of LPS for example from local infection foci. An important reason for the adverse systemic effects of an infection lies in the release of C5a. Therefore antimicrobial therapies with antibiotics offer a particular opportunity for combination with C5a receptor antagonists. Examples of antibiotic classes suited to combination therapies are amynoglycosides lactam antibiotics glycopeptide antibiotics gyrase inhibitors lincosamides macrolide antibiotics nitroimidazole derivatives polypeptide antibiotics sulfonamides trimethoprim and tetracycline.

Anti inflammatory therapeutic antibodies or other anti inflammatory proteins nucleic acids and their derivatives as well as peptides and small molecules that for example inhibit the action or effects of pro inflammatory molecules or support the action of anti inflammatory molecules e.g. IL 10 are preferably well suited for a combination therapy with the C5a receptor antagonists of this invention. Most of the substances listed here can be grouped in the class of biologicals and are substances that mostly show a very specific mechanism.

Often it is useful to modify several pathways within a biological system in order to achieve a better effect. Therefore it is particularly advantageous to combine C5a receptor antagonists of this invention with inhibitors of pro inflammatory molecules.

Examples of pro inflammatory molecules whose action could be inhibited in combination with invention based C5a receptor antagonists in order to achieve a better therapeutic effect include IL 1 IL 5 IL 6 IL 8 IL 10 IL 12 IL 13 IL 15 IL 16 IL 17 IL 18 TNF 4 7 5 1 BlyS cadherin CCR2 CD11a CD11b CD125 CD130 CD16 CD18 CD2 CD20 CD22 CD23 CD25 CD28 CD3 CD30 CD4 CD40 CD40L CD44 CD45R CD54 CD62E CD62L CD8 CD80 CD95 CEP gastrin R complement C1 or C1 esterase complement factor 5 complement factor D complement MBL complement receptor 1 CRTH2 receptor CTGF E and P selectin eotaxin factor IX FGF 20 Fg1 2 GM CSFr GP IIb IIIa receptor HMG1 IgE thymocytes IFN IFNr IP 10 MCP 1 M CSF receptor MIF MMP9 PDGF D P selectin TGF 1 tissue factor TrkA tyrosine kinase receptor VAP 1 VCAM 1 VEGF VLA1 and vWF. Inhibition of the pro inflammatory molecules from the list can be achieved for example by antibodies soluble receptors or other natural or artificial inactivating binding partners aptameres Spiegelmers RNAi antisense molecules or small molecules.

Besides drusen formation neogenesis of blood vessels is an important disease characteristic in AMD. Amongst other factors the in growth of blood vessels leads to a loss of eyesight in patients. Currently AMD patients are treated with photodynamic therapy. In addition antibodies against VEGF and integrin 5 1 are being developed for AMD therapy. A combination of these therapy approaches with an C5a receptor antagonist of this invention is therefore preferred.

Generally anti inflammatory or pain relieving therapeutic agents such as acetylsalicylic acid ibuprofen diclofenac naproxen are also well suited for use in a combination therapy with C5a receptor antagonists of this invention. Those affected by rheumatic diseases represent an example of a patient collective that would profit from such a kind of combination treatment.

Like the components of the complement cascade the components of the kinin cascade and the blood clotting system are located in blood plasma. In addition to the complement system the kinin system is also activated by artificial surfaces or other triggers such as burns or sepis. This suggests a close connection between the complement cascade the kinin cascade and the blood clotting system. A close connection between the three pathways is also suggested by the fact that the C1 esterase inhibitor C1Inh a naturally existing protein not only inhibits the complement system but also the kinin system and the intrinsic pathway of blood clotting. Therefore it is primarily preferred to combine antagonists of the end products of the kinin system such as bradykinin desArg bradykinin kalidin and desArg kalidin with C5a inhibitors of this invention. An example of one of such antagonists that seems suitable for combination is icatibant a BRantagonist . Similarly well suited is the combination with inhibitors of the kinin cascade or blood clotting system. Examples for indications where a combination of two or three inhibitors from the kinin clotting and complement cascades would be particularly relevant are for example reperfusion damage heart lungs liver kidneys intestine brain or skin severe burns and septic shock. Most preferred is the combination of bradykinin receptor antagonists with C5a receptor antagonists. The combination of therapeutic agents that inhibit the kinin cascade or inhibitors of the kinin receptors BRand BR such as icatibant with the compounds of this invention would be highly preferred. The influence of bradykinin on the inherited immune response has been shown Aliberti et al. 2003 Journal of Immunology 170 5349 and it is apparent that particularly BRantagonists are suited for a combination therapy with compounds of this invention in order to specifically act on the inherited immune response through two targets. A new aspect of this invention is thus influencing the inherited immune response with a combination therapy comprising C5a receptor antagonists and BRantagonists. It was shown that bradykinin receptors also play an important role in connection with intracellular parasites Scharfstein et al. 2003 FASEB Journal 17 73 . A combination of a C5a inhibitor and a bradykinin antagonist is also relevant for these indications.

Further possible targets for combination therapy with a C5a receptor antagonist are p38 MAP kinase phosphodiesterase 4 PDE 4 the NO system NO synthase and IL 1 converting enzyme caspase 1 .

The combination of a C5a receptor antagonist with an other medicament refers not only to the C5a receptor antagonists of this invention but also to the a C5a receptor antagonists that come under the claims of the application WO2005 010030 which are included here through disclosure by reference. Particularly relevant here are the compounds with the following structure X1 X2 X3 X4 X5 X6 X7 X8 C5a whereas X1 is a radical with a mass of around 1 300 and whereas X1 is preferentially chosen from the group comprising R5 R5 CO R5 N R6 CO R5 O CO R5 SO R5 N R6 SO R5 N R6 R5 N R6 CS R5 N R6 C NH R5 CS R5 P O OH R5 B OH R5 CH N O CH CO whereas R5 and R6 are chosen individually and independently from each other from the group comprising H F hydroxy alkyl substituted alkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl acyl substituted acyl alkoxy alkoxyalkyl substituted alkoxyalkyl aryloxyalkyl and substituted aryloxyalkyl X2 is a radical that mimics the biological binding characteristics of a phenylalanine unit X4 is individually and independently a spacer whereas the spacer is preferentially chosen from the group comprising amino acids amino acid analogues and amino acid derivatives X5 is a radical that mimics the biological binding characteristics of a cyclohexylalanine unit X6 is a radical that mimics the biological binding characteristics of a tryptophan unit X7 is a radical that mimics the biological binding characteristics of a norleucine or phenylalanine unit X8 is a radical whereby the presence of the radical is optional in structure I and if present is chosen from the group comprising H NH OH NH OH amino substituted amino alcoxy substituted alcoxy hydrazino substituted hydrazino aminooxy substituted aminooxy alkyl substituted alkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl aryl substituted aryl amino acids amino acid derivatives and amino acid analogues X3 shows the following structure 

Most preferable are C5a receptor antagonists with the following structure X1 X2 X3 X4 X5 X6 X7 X8 whereby X1 is a radical having a molecular weight of approx. 1 300. Preferably X1 is selected from the group comprising R5 R5 CO R5 N R6 CO R5 O CO R5 SO R5 N R6 SO R5 N R6 R5 N R6 CS R5 N R6 C NH R5 CS R5 P O OH R5 B OH R5 CH N O CH CO whereby R5 and R6 are individually and independently selected from the group comprising H F hydroxy alkyl substituted alkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl aryl alkyl substituted aryl alkyl aryl substituted aryl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl acyl substituted acyl alkoxy alkoxyalkyl substituted alkoxyalkyl aryloxyalkyl and substituted aryloxyalkyl X2 is an amino acid derivative of an amino acid which is selected from the group comprising phenylalanine 2 fluoro phenylalanine 3 fluoro phenylalanine 4 fluoro phenylalanine 2 chlorophenylalanine 3 chlorophenylalanine 4 chlorophenylalanine 1 naphtylalanine 2 thienylalanine 3 thienylalanine 3.3 diphenylalanine tyrosine tryptophane histidine and derivatives thereof or X2 and X1 are together equivalent to PhCHCHCO or PhCH X3 and X4 are used as defined above in connection with the structure C5a X5 is an amino acid derivative of an amino acid is which is selected from the group comprising D cyclohexylalanine D cyclohexylglycine D homo cyclohexylalanine octahydroindole 2 carboxylic acid 2 methyl D phenylalanine and derivatives thereof X6 is an amino acid derivative of an amino acid which is selected from the group comprising tryptophane phenylalanine tyrosine histidine 1 naphtylalanine benzothienylalanine 2 aminoindane 2 carboxylic acid 2 thienylalanine 3 thienylalanine 2 fluoro phenylalanine 3 fluoro phenylalanine 4 fluoro phenylalanine 2 chlorophenylalanine 3 chlorophenylalanine 4 chlorophenylalanine and derivatives thereof X7 is an amino acid derivative of an amino acid which is selected from the group comprising norvaline norleucine homo leucine leucine isoleucine valine cysteine cysteine Me cysteine Et cysteine Pr methionine allylglycine propargylglycine cyclohexylglycine cyclohexyl alanine phenylalanine tyrosine tryptophane histidine 1 naphtylalanine 2 thienylalanine 3 thienylalanine and derivatives thereof. X8 is a radical optionally included in this kind of compound structure I and if included is selected from the group comprising H NH OH NH OH amino substituted amino alkoxy substituted alkoxy hydrazino substituted hydrazino aminooxy substituted aminooxy alkyl substituted alkyl cycloalkyl substituted cycloalkyl heterocyclyl substituted heterocyclyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl aryl substituted aryl aminoacid amino acid derivative and amino acid analogue.

Amino acid derivatives as preferably used herein represent compounds which result from amino acids by modifying the N and or C termus. Non limiting examples are the conversion of the carboxyl group to salts esters acylhydrazides hydroxamic acids or amides and the conversion of the amino group to amides ureas thioureas thioamides sulfonamides phosphoric acid amides boric acid amides or alkyl amines. Parts of compounds which result from modifications of amino acids at the C and or N terminus can also be referred to as amino acid units. Furthermore amino acids derivatives can also represent amino acids derivatized at their side chains. If amino acid derivative represents such an amino acid whereby the side chain is modified one or several times it is usually specifically indicated herein. A preferred derivatisation of the side chain may be made in particular at positions at which the side chain carries a functional group. Preferred functional groups are for example an amino group a carboxyl group a thiol group or an alcohol group.

Amino acid analogues are compounds which result from amino acids by replacing the amino and or carboxyl group by other groups which can mimic them. Non limiting examples are the incorporation of thioamides ureas thioureas acylhydrazides esters alkyl amines sulfonamides phosphoric acid amides ketones alcohols boronic acid amides benzodiazepines and other aromatic or non aromatic heterocycles for a review see M. A. Estiarte D. H. Rich in Burgers Medicinal Chemistry 6edition volume 1 part 4 John Wiley Sons New York 2002 .

The biological binding characteristics of an amino acid unit as described herein are preferable those binding characteristics shown by the respective amino acid during the interaction with a biological molecule. Biological molecules are especially molecules exerting a biological function. Non limiting examples of such biological molecules are protein or peptide based receptors.

Groups or units which mimic or imitate the biological binding characteristics of an amino acid are defined as groups which can interact in a way identical or similar to the amino acid itself with a receptor or interacting partner preferably a biological receptor or a biological interaction partner. For the selection of such groups it is preferred to take into consideration those which are the most wide spread ones in terms of most preferred interactions of the respective amino acids with biological receptors. For example the oxygen atom of a carbonyl group of an amino acid can function as hydrogen bond acceptor whereas the NH proton can act as hydrogen bond donor. Additionally amino acids can interact with receptors via their side chains. Phenylalanine and tryptophane can establish both hydrophobic interactions via the methylene side chain or the aromatic groups and interactions via the aromatic groups. Additionally the indole group of the tryptophane can serve as a hydrogen bond donor via its NH group. Cyclohexylalanine and norleucine can in principle establish hydrophobic interactions with biological receptors via their alkyl and or cycloalkyl side chains. Not only the complete side chain of an amino acid but also parts of the side chain can establish important interactions.

If a group or a unit which is to mimic or imitate the biological binding characteristics of an amino acid or shall exhibit this characteristic is capable of establishing at least one of the above mentioned interactions of the respective amino acid then this group or unit can mimic its biological binding characteristics.

As used herein in connection with group definitions the term and respective derivatives thereof refers to the fact that all derivatives of the individual compounds groups of compounds parts of molecules radicals or chemical groups can be present as derivatives.

Most preferable C5a receptor antagonists are the following compounds Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe Ac Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe HOCH CHOH C N O CH CO Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle X Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle X 2 acetamido 1 methyl glucuronyl Ac Phe Orn Hyp COCHOCHCHOCHCHOCH cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Hyp CONH CHCH OH CHOH cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Ecr Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Met Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nva Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Hle Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Eaf Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Ebd Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Eag Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Pmf Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp 2Ni Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Thi Ph CH CH CO Orn Pro cha Trp Nle H Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Ac Lys Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle H Phe Orn Ser cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta 2Ni NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Cha NH Ac Phe Orn Pip cha Trp Phe NH Ph CH Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Ph CH Orn Pro cha Trp Phe Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp 1Ni Ph CH OH CH CO Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp 2Ni NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Cha NH Ac Thi Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Thi Orn Pip cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Eap NH Me Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ph CH CH CO Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Ebw Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp NH CH CH Ph Ac Phe Orn Aze cha Bta NH CH CH Ph H Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH H Me Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Bu NH CO Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Thi Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Ebw Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Ala cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Thi NH Ac Phe Orn Aze cha Pcf Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Ac Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Aze cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Trp Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ph NH CO Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Bu O CO Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Lys Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Arg Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Gln Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pip cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp 1Ni NH Ac Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Me CH SO Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Aze cha Pff Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Aze cha Mcf Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Ac Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Ebw Orn Pro cha Tip Phe NH Ac Phe Trp Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Arg Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pip cha Trp Phe NH 3PP Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Tic cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Ser cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro chg Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hch Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phg NH Ac Phe Bta Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Trp Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pip cha Trp Phe OH Ac Phe Orn Tic cha Trp Phe OH Ac Phe Orn Ser cha Trp Phe OH Ac Phe Orn Pro chg Trp Phe OH Ac Phe Eec Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Nle Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Har Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Arg Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Cys Acm Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Mpa Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Eby Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phg Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Paf Pro cha Bta Phe NH HN CO Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Me O CO Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH CO CH NH CO Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hch Trp Phe OH CO CH CH CO Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH tBu CO Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Lys Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Gly Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Arg Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac His Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Ser Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Guf Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Dab Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH FHC CO Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Et Pro cha Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Hyp cha Tip Nle 3PP Orn Hyp cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Tyr Ac Phe Orn Pro omf Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Arg CH CH Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Ala Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Arg Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Cit Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Gly Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Gly Phe Orn Aze chg Bta Phe NH Ac Gly Phe Orn Aze hch Bta Phe NH Ac Gly Thi Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac His Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Hyp Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Lys Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Mff Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Mff Orn Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ac Mff Orn Pro hle Mcf Mff NH Ac Mmy Orn Pro hle Pff Phe NH Ac NMF Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Off Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Off Orn Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ac Orn Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Pff Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Pff Orn Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ac Pff Orn Pro hle Mcf Pff NH Ac Phe Cys Pro cha Bta Phe Cys NH Ac Phe Orn Asn cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Aze cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Chy cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn HyA cha Trp Phe Ac Phe Orn Hyp hle Bta Phe Ac Phe Orn Hyp hle Mcf Phe Ac Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Nle Ac Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Phe Ac Phe Orn Hyp hle Trp Phe Ac Phe Orn Hyp Mmf Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Hyp Mmf Trp Phe Ac Phe Orn NMD cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Pip hle Bta Phe Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Pff Nle Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Pff Phe Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp 1Ni Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Cha Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Chg Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Ecr Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Leu Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp nle Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Phe Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Nle Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Phe Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Phe Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Ser cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Ser cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Ser hle Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Thr cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Tic cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Orn Tic cha Trp Nle Ac Phe Ala Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Arg Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Arg Pro hle Mcf Phe NH Ac Phe Cit Hyp hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Cit Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Cit Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Cit Ser hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Dab Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Dab Aze hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Dab Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Dap Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Ech Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Eep Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Fcn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Fcn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Fco Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Fco Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Fcp Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Ffa Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Ffa Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Ffa Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe G23 Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Guf Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Har Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe His Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe L22 Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe OrA Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe OrE Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Aze hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Chy cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Chy hle Pff Phe NH Ac Phe Orn G24 cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn G25 cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn G26 cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn G27 cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn G30 cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn G31 cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Hse cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Hyp hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Phe NH Ac Phe Orn NMA cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn NMS cha Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha 1 Ni Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta 1Ni NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Bhf NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Dff NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Eaa NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta L19 Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Mcf NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Mff NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta NH CH CHOH CH Ph Ac Phe Orn Pro Cha Bta NH NBn CO NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Opa NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Pcf NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Pmf NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Thi NH Ac Phe Orn Pro cha Otf Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro ctb Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro ctb Eaa Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro ctb Mcf Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro ctb Pff Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hch Trp Phe OH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle 1Ni Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle 6FW Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta 1Ni NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta 2Ni NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta 5Ff NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Aic NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Cha NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Chg NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Eaa NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Egy NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Pcf NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Pff NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta phe OH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Tyr NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Dff Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Eaa Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Egc Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Egy Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Egz Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Mcf 2Ni NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Mcf Cha NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Mcf Pff NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Mcf Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Mff Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Mmy Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Ocf Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Off Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Otf Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Pff 2Ni NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Cha NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Eaa NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Mmy NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Pff NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Phe Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Tff Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro hle Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro Ile Trp Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Pro omf Bta Phe NH Ac Phe Orn Ser cha Bta Phe NH Ac Ser Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Ac Thi Orn Pro hle Bta Phe Ac Thi Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Ac Thi Orn Pro cha Bta Thi NH Ac Thr Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH Bzl Orn Pro cha Bta Nle CHCHCO Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Def Orn Ser hle Trp Nle Eby Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe Eth Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Nle FAc Phe Fib Aze cha Bta Phe NH FAc Phe Orn Aze cha Bta Phe NH FAc Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Fai Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe Faz Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Fbi Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Fbn Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe Fbn Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Fbn Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Fbn Phe Cit Pro hle Bta Phe NH Fbo Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Fbp Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Fci Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe Fck Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Fck Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle Fha Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe Fhb Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe Fhi Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe Fhu Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Nle Fhu Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH Fid Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH H Amf Orn Aze hle Pff Nle H Bal Phe Orn Hyp hle Trp Nle H Bal Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Nle H Eby Orn Hyp hle Trp Nle H Gly Phe Orn Pro cha Bta Phe NH H Nip Phe Cit Pro hle Bta Phe NH Hoo Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Nle Hoo Phe Cit Pro hle Pff Phe NH Hoo Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Phe NH Hoo Phe Orn Pro hle Bta Phe NH Hoo Phe Orn Pro hle Mcf Phe NH Hoo Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Phe NH H Phe Lys Hyp hle Pff Nle H Phe Orn Hym hle Mcf Nle H Phe Orn Hym hle Pff Phe H Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Nle H Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe H Phe Orn Hyp ctb Pff Nle H Phe Orn Hyp ctb Trp Nle H Phe Orn Hyp ctb Trp Phe H Phe Orn Hyp hle Mcf Leu H Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Chg H Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Hle H Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Leu H Phe Orn Hyp hle Pff Nle H Phe Orn Hyp hie Pff Phe H Phe Orn Hyp hle Trp Hle H Phe Orn Hyp hle Trp Leu H Phe Orn Hyp hle Trp Nle H Phe Orn Hyp hle Trp Nva H Phe Orn Hyp hle Trp Phe H Phe Orn NMS cha Trp Nle H Phe Orn NMS hle Pff Phe H Phe Orn Pro cha Pff Nle H Phe Orn Pro cha Pff Phe H Phe Orn Pro cha Trp Nle H Phe Orn Pro hle Mcf Phe H Phe Orn Pro hle Ocf Phe H Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Me H Phe Orn Pro hle Pff Phe H Phe Orn Pro hle Trp Nle H Phe Orn Ser cha Trp Nle H Phe Orn Ser cha Trp Phe H Phe Orn Ser hle Eaa Nle H Phe Orn Ser hle Mcf Leu H Phe Orn Ser hle Ocf Nle H Phe Orn Ser hle Pff Leu H Phe Orn Ser hle Pff Nle H Phe Orn Ser hle Pff Phe H Phe Orn Ser hle Trp Nle H Phe Cit Pro hle Bta Phe NH Ohf Orn Hyp hle Trp Nle Tmg Phe Orn Hyp cha Trp Phe .

A further group of compounds and or derived drugs thereof have an effect on integrins in particular alpha5beta1 integrins and are therefore integrin antagonists in particular alpha5beta1 antagonists. These integrin antagonists can be used together with the C5aR antagonists and or derived drugs thereof for the prevention and or treatment of diseases.

There are at least three major classes of reagents developed as integrin anatagonists especially alpha5beta1 integrin antagonists. These include antibodies such as monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies and antibody fragments Kim et al. 2000 Am. J. Path. 156 1345 natural peptides e.g. venom derived disintegrin peptides Marcinkiewicz et al. 1999 Biochemistry 38 13302 synthetic peptides e.g. Koivunen et. al 1994 JBC 124 373 U.S. Pat. No. 6 001 965 and non peptidic small molecules such as spiro compounds WO97 33887 or benzyl compounds WO95 32710 .

Additional small molecules which can act as integrin in particular as alpha5beta1 integrin antagonists have the following structure 

A further group of compounds and or derived drugs thereof have an effect on kinins in particular bradykinin and are therefore kinin or bradykinin antagonists. These kinin antagonists can be used together with the C5aR antagonists and or derived drugs thereof for the prevention and or treatment of diseases.

Bradykinin antagonists can be selected from the group comprising B1 inhibitors having the following preferred structures 

Bradykinin antagonists can also be selected from the group comprising B2 inhibitors having the following preferred structures 

Additional compounds which can act as kinin receptor antagonists preferable as bradykinin antagonists and therefore can be used together with C5aR antagonists according to the present invention are having the following formula BI Z P A B C E F K D Q GM F I BI whereby

Most preferably the peptide is a peptide as described above particularly most preferably it is a peptide according to the last description 

Most preferably the peptide is a peptid as described above descriptions whereby it is selected from the group 

Most preferably the peptide is a peptid as described above descriptions whereby it is selected from the group 

Most preferably the peptide is a peptid as described above descriptions whereby it is selected from the group 

It will be understood by the ones skilled in the art that different diseases can be assigned to different generic terms as used herein. This assignment does not present any limitation in fact the respective disease can be treated or prevented alone by the compounds of the present invention. It is also understood by the specialist in the field that the diseases indicated in parentheses herein are synonymously used or are special forms of the indicated disease.

The materials and methods as well as general methods are further illustrated by the following examples 

Acetonitrile Gradient grade J. T. Baker dichloromethane for synthesis Merck Eurolab diethylether for synthesis Merck Eurolab N N dimethylformamide LAB Merck Eurolab dioxane for synthesis Aldrich methanol for synthesis Merck Eurolab .

Chemicals were synthesized according to or in analogy to literature procedures or purchased from Advanced ChemTech Bamberg Deutschland Sigma Aldrich Fluka Deisenhofen Germany Bachem Heidelberg Germany J. T. Baker Phillipsburg USA Lancaster M hlheim Main Germany Merck Eurolab Darmstadt Germany Neosystem Strasbourg France Novabiochem Bad Soden Germany from 2003 Merck Biosciences Darmstadt Germany and Acros Geel Belgium distribution company Fisher Scientific GmbH Schwerte Germany Peptech Cambridge Mass. USA Synthetech Albany Oreg. USA Pharmacore High Point N.C. USA and Anaspec San Jose Calif. USA or other companies and used in the assigned quality without further purification.

Commercially not available unnatural amino acids or carboxylic acids used for N terminal modification were prepared according to standard procedures. For example Fmoc cis Hyp OH was obtained by reaction of h cis Hyp OH with Fmoc OSu Paquet et al. 1982 Canadian Journal of Chemistry 60 976 980A . Fmoc Phe 4 STrt Amidino OH was obtained by a known procedure Pearson et al. 1996 Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 39 1372 . Sidechain modified cysteine derivatives were prepared by alkylation of Fmoc cysteine OH with alkyl halides.

For analytic chromatography a Hewlett Packard 1100 system degasser G1322A quaternary pump G1311A automatic sample changer G1313A column heater G 1316A variable UV detector G1314A together with an ESI MS Finnigan LCQ ion trap mass spectrometer was used. The system was controlled by navigator ver. 1 1 sp1 software Finnigan . As impact gas in the ion trap helium was used. For chromatographic separation a RP 18 column Vydac 218 TP5215 2.1 150 mm 5 m C18 300 A with a pre column Merck was used at 30 C. and a flow of 0.3 ml min using a linear gradient for all chromatograms 5 95 B for 25 min linear A 0.05 TFA in water and B 0.05 TFA in CHCN . UV detection was done at 220 nm. The retention times R are indicated in the decimal system e.g. 1.9 min 1 min 54 s and are referring to detection in the mass spectrometer. The dead time between injection and UV detection HPLC was 1.65 min and between UV detection and mass detection 0.21 min. The accuracy of the mass spectrometer was approx. 0.2 amu.

HPLC MS analyses were performed by injection of 5 l using a linear gradient from 95 5 to 5 95 in 9.5 min A 0.05 TFA in water and B 0.05 TFA in acetonitrile . RP columns were from Phenomenex Type Luna C 18 3 m 50 2.00 mm flow 0.3 ml HPLC at room temperature Mass spectrometer ThermoFinnigan Advantage and or LCQ Classic both ion trap ESI ionization helium served as impact gas in the ion trap. Excalibur vers. 1.3 and or. 1.2 was used as software. Retention times R are indicated in the decimal system e.g. 1.9 min 1 min 54 s .

Preparative HPLC separations were done using Vydac R18 RP columns with the following gradient solvents 0.05 TFA in HO and B 0.05 TFA in CHCN

GP 1a Synthesis of Secondary Amines by Reductive Amination of Aldehydes or Ketones with NaBHCN or NaBHand titanium IV isopropylate.

The carbonyl compound 2 is dissolved in THF. 1.1 eq. titanium IV isopropylate is added followed by 1.0 eq. of amine 1. After stirring for one day at RT 3.0 eq. of sodiumcyanoborhydride or sodium borohydride dissolved in ethanol are slowly added. Stirring is continued for 2 to 5 hours and then the solvent is removed at the evaporator. After addition of approx. 20 80 ml 2N NaOH solution and approx. 20 80 ml dichloromethane the white precipitate is removed by centrifugation. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is removed under vacuum. The desired secondary amine 3 was obtained which was used either directly for further reactions or purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

The primary amine 2 is dissolved in dichloroethane. 1.0 eq. copper II acetate and optionally 1.0 eq. 2.6 lutidine are added followed by boronic acid 1. After stirring for one day at RT the solvent is removed at the evaporator. After addition of approx. 20 80 ml 2N NaOH solution and approx. 20 80 ml dichloromethane the white precipitate is removed by centrifugation. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is removed under vacuum. The desired secondary amine 3 was obtained which was used either directly for further reactions or purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

Amine 1 is dissolved in THF. A solution of 0.8 to 1.2 eq. of the alkyl halide 2 is slowly added followed by a small amount of potassium carbonate. After one day stirring at 60 C. the solvent is removed at the evaporator. After addition of approx. 20 80 ml 2N NaOH solution and approx. 20 80 ml dichloromethane the white precipitate is removed by centrifugation. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is removed under vacuum. The desired amide 3 was obtained which was used either directly for the following reduction to the amine 4 or was purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

The carboxylic acid 2 is dissolved in dry dichloromethane. 1.5 eq. WSC HCl and 2.0 eq. N ethylmorpholine is added. After addition of 1.3 eq. of amine 1 the solution is stirred for 2 to 16 h at RT. After addition of approx. 20 80 ml 2N NaOH solution and approx. 20 80 ml dichloromethane the white precipitate is removed by centrifugation. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is removed under vacuum. The desired secondary amine 3 was obtained which was used either directly for further reactions or purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

For the synthesis of secondary amine 4 amide 3 is dissolved under argon atmosphere in THF. 3 to 5 eq. of lithium aluminiumhydride in THF are added and stirring is continued for 1 to 4 days at 55 C. The reaction mixture is cooled in an ice bath and first isopropanol then methanol and finally water is slowly added. The solvent is removed at the evaporator. After addition of approx. 20 80 ml 2N NaOH solution and approx. 20 80 ml dichloromethane the white precipitate is removed by centrifugation. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate and the solvent is removed under vacuum. The desired amine 4 was obtained which was used either directly for further reactions or purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

GP 2A Conversion of Primary Amines into the Corresponding Carbonylchlorides or Isocyanates Followed by Reaction with Secondary Amines to Ureas.

The primary amine 1 is dissolved in acetonitrile. 2.0 eq. sodium carbonate and a solution of 1.0 to 1.3 eq. of phosgene 20 in toluene are added to it under stirring at room temperature. After 2 to 7 hours 1.0 to 1.5 eq. of the secondary amine 3 dissolved in MeCN are added slowly. The solution is stirred for additional 16 hours and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. After addition of 1 to 20 ml saturated NHCl solution or water and 1 to 20 ml DCM or EE the aqueous phase is extracted 3 to 6 times with DCM or EE. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The obtained urea 4 is either subjected to further reactions or purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

GP 2B Transformation of Secondary Amines to the Corresponding Carbonyl Chloroide and Subsequent Reaction with Primary Amines Yielding Urea Derivative

The synthesis pathway for GP 2B is the same as for GP 1A only the primary and secondary amines are exchanged.

The shown structure is only one example. Likewise other aromatic or non aromatic nitro compounds can be transformed into the corresponding amines.

The nitro compound 1 is dissolved in MeOH. Some spatula amounts of Pd C are added and H atmosphere is applied. After 10 to 60 minutes of stirring at room temperature the reaction mixture is filtered and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The obtained amine 2 is either subjected to further reactions or purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

The nitro compound 1 is dissolved in EE and 2 to 4 eq. of stannous II chloroide dihydrate is added. The reaction mixture is heated to 80 C. for 1 to 6 hours until HPLC MS or TLC control shows completeness of the reduction. The solvent is removed under reduced pressure and ca. 1 to 50 ml 2N NaOH solution and ca. 1 to 50 ml DCM is added. The aqueous layer is extracted 3 to 6 times with DCM. The combined organic layers are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The obtained amine 2 is either subjected to further reactions or purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

The nitro compound 1 is dissolved in EE and some spatula amounts of iron powder are added. The reaction mixture is stirred for 1 to 6 hours until HPLC MS or TLC control shows completeness of the reduction. Alternatively the reaction can be carried out in EtOH sat. aqueous NHCl solution 10 1 at 60 C. The iron powder is filtered off and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure ca. 1 to 50 ml 2N NaOH solution or HO is added and the aqueous layer is extracted 2 to 3 times with DCM. The combined organic layers are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure. The obtained amine 2 is either subjected to further reactions or purified by flash chromatography or HPLC.

1.83 ml 10.9 mmol 3 Chloro 2 6 diethyl phenylamine 1 is dissolved on an ice bath at 0 C. in 8 ml conc. HSO. 562 l 12.0 mmol 1.1 eq. 90 ige HNOis added and the reaction mixture is stirred for 2.5 hours at 0 C. The reaction mixture is pored on ca. 200 ml ice and the obtained solution is extracted 8 times with 50 to 100 ml EE each. The combined organic layers are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure yielding 2.1 g of crude product. After purification by flash chromatography 1.24 g 5.42 mmol 50 of 2 could be obtained.

3.00 g 22.0 mmol 6 methylnicotinamide is dissolved in 10 ml THF under argon atmosphere and 34 ml 34 mmol 1.5 eq. 1 M lithium aluminum hydride in THF are added. After 45 min additional lithium aluminum hydride 1.22 g 1.5 eq. in 40 ml THF is added. The reaction mixture is heated to 60 C. for 24 h under stirring. The reaction mixture is carefully quenched under stirring with isopropyl alcohol methanol and finally water at 0 C. The solvent is removed under vacuum. After addition of 100 ml 2N NaOH solution and 100 ml DCM the white precipitate is centrifuged off and the aqueous layer is extracted 4 times with 60 ml DCM. The combined organic layers are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure yielding 1.57 g 12.9 mmol 58 of the amine 2 which is used without further purification for subsequent reaction steps.

900 mg 7.37 mmol of the crude compound 2 is reacted according to GP 1B with 4 ethylphenylboronic acid 3 without lutidine yielding 788 mg of crude product. After purification by flash chromatography 60.4 mg 0.27 mmol 4 of 4 could be obtained.

61.3 mg 0.267 mmol 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 5 is reacted according to GP 2A with 60.4 mg 0.267 mmol 1.0 eq. 4 ethyl phenyl 6 methyl pyridin 3 ylmethyl amine 4 . The obtained crude product is used without further purification for subsequent reaction steps.

The nitro compound 6 obtained in step 3 is reduced according to GP 3A and the product is purified by HPLC yielding 32.64 mg 0.072 mmol 27 2 steps of compound 7.

1.50 g 12.34 mmol 4 ethylaniline 1 is reacted according to GP 1A with 4 methyl benzaldehyde 2 . The obtained 2.32 g 10.3 mmol 83 crude product 3 is used without further purification for subsequent reaction steps.

70 mg 0.306 mmol 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 3 is reacted with 105 mg 0.459 mmol 1.5 eq. 4 ethyl phenyl 4 methyl benzyl amine 2 according to GP 2A. The obtained crude product is used without further purification for subsequent reaction steps.

The nitro compound 4 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3A and the obtained product purified by HPLC yielding 5.1 mg of compound 5 and 7.0 mg of the dechlorinated compound 6 after reduction.

160.9 mg 1.19 mmol 4 isopropylaniline 1 is reacted with 2 4 dimethoxy pyrimidin 5 carbaldehyde 2 according to GP 1A. The obtained 318 mg 1.11 mmol 93 crude product 3 is used without further purification for subsequent reaction steps.

90 mg 0.395 mmol 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 3 is reacted with 168.5 mg 0.586 mmol 1.5 eq. 2 4 dimethoxy pyrimidin 5 ylmethyl 4 ethyl phenyl amine 2 according to GP 2A. The obtained crude product is used without further purification for subsequent reaction steps.

The nitro compound 4 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3A and the product is purified by HPLC yielding 72.5 mg of compound 5 and 2.8 mg of the dechlorinated compound 6 after reduction.

700 mg 4.29 mmol 6 tert butyl o toluidine 1 is dissolved on an ice bath at 0 C. in 8 ml conc. HSO. To it 221.6 l 4.72 mmol 1.1 eq. conc. HNOis added and the reaction mixture is stirred for 3 h at 0 C. The reaction mixture is pored on ca. 75 ml ice and the obtained solution is extracted 5 times with EE. The combined organic layers are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure yielding 844 mg 4.06 mmol 95 of a mixture of compounds 2 and 3 as crude product. After purification of 200 mg by HPLC 72 mg 0.35 mmol 34 2 and 36 mg 0.17 mmol 17 3 could be obtained.

2.25 ml 16.1 mmol S 4 chloro alpha methylbenzylamine 5 is reacted with 1.88 ml 16.1 mmol 1.0 eq. lutidine and 3.62 g 24.2 mmol 1.5 eq. 4 ethylphenylboronic acid 4 according to GP 1B. After purification by flash chromatography hexane EE 12 1 1.96 g 7.54 mmol 47 of amine 6 is obtained.

72 mg 0.35 mmol 6 tert butyl 2 methyl 3 nitro phenylamine 2 is reacted with 81 mg 0.31 mmol 0.9 eq. S 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl 4 ethyl phenyl amine 6 according to GP 2A. The obtained crude product is used without further purification for subsequent reaction steps.

The nitro compound 7 obtained in step 3 is reduced according to GP 3B and the obtained product is purified by HPLC yielding 13.4 mg of compound 8.

250 mg 1.36 mmol 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 nitroethene 2 and 136 l 1.09 mmol 0.8 eq. 4 ethylaniline 1 are dissolved in 2 ml acetonitrile. The reaction mixture is stirred for two days at 45 C. and concentrated in vacuum. The obtained crude product is used without further purification for subsequent reaction steps.

75 mg 0.328 mmol 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 4 is reacted with 130 mg 0.43 mmol 1.3 eq. 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 nitroethyl 4 ethylphenyl amine 3 obtained as crude product in step 1 according to GP 2A. Purification by HPLC yielded 22 mg 0.039 mmol 12 5.

12.7 mg 0.0227 mmol of the dinitro compound 5 is reduced according to GP 3A and the crude product purified by HPLC yielding 1.41 mg 0.0030 mmol 13 of the diamine 7 and 1.56 mg 0.0032 mmol 14 of compound 6.

150 mg 0.77 mmol ethyl 3 amino 4 methyl amino benzoate 1 is dissolved in 10 ml formic acid. The solution is stirred at 60 C. for one day. Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure yielded 235 mg of the crude product which is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

235 mg of the ester 2 obtained in step 1 is dissolved in a mixture of 20 ml 1N LiOH and 8 ml dioxane. The solution is stirred for 4 h at room temperature and 11 ml of a 2N HCl solution is added until pH 7 is reached. The dioxane is removed under reduced pressure. After freeze drying of the aqueous layer 530 mg of the desired compound 3 is obtained as a crude product which is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The crude product from step 2 theor. amount 0.77 mmol is suspended in 14 ml DMF and 1038 mg 5.4 mmol 7.0 eq. WSC HCl 802 mg 3.0 mmol 3.9 eq. HOBt and 300 l 2.4 mmol 3.1 eq. 4 ethylaniline are added. After one day of stirring the DMF is removed under reduced pressure. 50 ml of a 2N NaOH solution is added and the aqueous layer is extracted 5 times with DCM. The combined organic layers are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure yielding 1.04 g of the crude product as a brown oil. The oil is dissolved in 50 ml DCM and extracted 5 times with 30 ml of a 1M HCl solution. The aqueous layer is adjusted to pH 14 with app. 30 ml of a 1 M NaOH solution and extracted 5 times with 50 ml DCM. The combined organic layers are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed under reduced pressure which is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The crude product from step 3 theor. amount 0.77 mmol is reacted according to GP 1D at room temperature for one day. After purification by flash chromatography 57.4 mg 0.22 mmol 29 over 4 steps of amine 6 is obtained.

34.4 mg 0.151 mmol 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 7 is reacted with 40 mg 0.151 mmol 1.0 eq. 4 ethyl phenyl 1 methyl 1H benzoimidazol 5 ylmethyl amine 6 according to GP 2A. The crude product 8 is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The nitro compound 8 obtained in step 5 is reduced according to GP 3B and the obtained product is purified by HPLC yielding 3.37 mg of compound 9.

500 mg 1.50 mmol methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl carbaminic acid tert butyl ester 1 252 l 1.80 mmol 1.2 eq. S 1 4 chlorophenyl ethylamine 2 and 418 l 3.0 mmol 2.0 eq. triethylamine are reacted according to GP 1B. After purification by flash chromatography hexane EE 133 mg 0.37 mmol 25 of amine 3 is obtained.

70 mg 0.307 mmol 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 4 and 132 mg 0.366 mmol 1.2 eq. 4 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl amino phenyl methyl carbaminic acid tert butyl ester 3 are reacted according to GP 2A. The crude product is purified by HPLC yielding 105 mg 0.171 mmol 56 of compound 5.

80 mg 0.130 mmol of the Boc protected compound 5 from step 2 is dissolved in ca. 5 ml DCM TFA HO 50 50 0.05 and stirred for 10 min at room temperature. The solvent is removed under reduced pressure and 73 mg 0.142 mmol 109 of amine 6 is obtained which is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

50 mg 0.097 mmol of the nitro compound 6 from step 3 is reduced within 3 min according to GP 3A. Purification by HPLC of the crude product afforded 12.5 mg 0.026 mmol 27 of desired compound 7 and 2.7 mg 0.006 mmol 6 of the dechlorinated compound 8.

140.2 l 1.0 mmol of compound 1 and 210 mg 1.3 eq. 5 indolylboronic acid 2 are reacted according to GP 1B in the presence of 151 l 1.3 eq. lutidine and 236 mg 1.3 eq. copper acetate. The 240 mg of obtained crude product is purified yielding by flash chromatography 26 mg 0.10 mmol 10 of amine 3.

26 mg 0.116 mmol 1.2 eq. 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 4 and 26 mg 0.096 mmol 1.0 eq. 1 4 chloro phenyl ethyl 1H indol 5 yl amine 3 are reacted at 40 C. according to GP 2A. The obtained product is purified by HPLC yielding 6 mg 0.011 mmol 10 of 5.

The nitro compound 5 from step 2 is reduced according to GP 3A. Purification by HPLC of the crude product afforded 2.70 mg 0.0054 mmol 50 of desired compound 6.

1.46 ml 18 mmol 4 isopropylaniline 1 is reacted with 4 methoxy benzylchloroide 2 according to GP 1C. After purification by HPLC 1.1 g 4.3 mmol 72 of compound 3 is obtained.

90 mg of the nitro compound 4 is reacted with 134 mg 0.525 mmol 1.5 eq. of amine 3 according to GP 2A. The crude product 5 is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The nitro compound 5 from step 2 is reduced according to GP 3B and purified by HPLC yielding 18 mg of compound 6. 10.0 mg 6 are dissolved in acetonitrile 20 ml 10 eq. acetic anhydride and 2 eq. TEA were added. The reaction mixture is stirred for 30 min at room temperature. Purification by HPLC yielded 9 mg of compound 7.

1.46 ml 18 mmol 4 isopropylaniline 1 is reacted with 1 indanone 2 according to GP 1A. Purification of the crude product by HPLC yielded 1.1 g 4.3 mmol 72 of compound 3.

180 mg of the nitro compound 4 is reacted with 180 mg 0.76 mmol 1 eq. amine 3 according to GP 2A. The crude product 5 is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The nitro compound 5 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3B and the obtained product is purified by HPLC yielding 19 mg of compound 6 and 5.0 mg of the dechlorinated compound 7.

150 l 1.2 mmol 4 isopropylaniline 1 is reacted with 1 4 bromomethyl phenyl 1H pyrazole 2 according to GP 1C yielding 180 mg 0.78 mmol 64 of 3 as crude product which is used without further purifications.

60 mg of the nitro compound 4 is reacted with 75 mg 0.26 mmol 1 eq. amine 3 according to GP 2A. The obtained crude product is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The nitro compound 5 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3B. Purification by HPLC of the crude product yielded 12 mg of compound 6.

150 l 1.2 mmol 4 isopropylaniline 1 is reacted with 4 nitrobenzylbromide 2 according to GP 1C. The obtained compound 3 260 mg 1.02 mmol 85 is used without purification for further reactions.

60 mg of the nitro aniline 4 is reacted with 70 mg 0.26 mmol 1 eq. amine 3 according to GP 2A. The obtained crude product is used without purification for further reactions.

The nitro compound 5 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3A. The product is purified by HPLC yielding 6 mg of compound 6.

107 mg N methyl 4 nitroaniline 1 are dissolved in 10 ml THF and 186 mg 1.1 eq. phenyl chloroformate 2 are added in the presence of 187 mg 1 eq. potassium carbonate. The reaction mixture is stirred for 16 h at room temperature. The solvent is removed under reduced pressure and the residue is redissolved in EE and extracted twice with water. Removal of the solvent yielded 250 mg of crude product which is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The nitro compound 3 obtained in step 1 is reduced according to GP 3B yielding 180 mg of crude 4 which is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

180 mg 0.744 mmol of amine 4 is reacted with 4 chloro benzylbromide 5 according to GP 1C. The obtained crude 6 300 mg is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

63 mg of the nitro aniline 7 is reacted with 120 mg 0.33 mmol 1.1 eq. of amine 6 according to GP 2A. The obtained crude product 8 is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The nitro compound 8 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3A yielding crude 9 which is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The crude urea 9 is dissolved in a mixture of 5 ml THF 3 ml DMSO and 2.5 ml 2 M NaOH. The reaction mixture is stirred vigorously over night yielding compound 10. Purification by HPLC afforded 3 mg of compound 10.

1.46 ml 18 mmol 4 isopropylaniline 1 is reacted with 4 methoxybenzylchloroide 2 according to GP 1C. Purification of the crude product by HPLC yielded 1.1 g 4.3 mmol 72 of compound 3.

53 mg of the nitro aniline 4 is reacted with 67 mg 0.26 mmol 1.5 eq. amine 3 according to GP 2A. The obtained crude product 5 is used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

The nitro compound 5 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3A. Purification of the crude product by HPLC yielded 13 mg of compound 6.

841 l 6.0 mmol S 4 chloro alpha methylbenzylamine 1 react according to GP 1B with 1.35 g 9.0 mmol 1.5 eq. 4 ethylphenylboronic acid 2 . After flash chromatographic purification hexane ethylacetate 12 1 450 mg 1.73 mmol 29 of the desired amine 3 is yielded.

131.7 mg 0.576 mmol of 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 4 react according to GP 2A with 485 l 0.922 mmol 1.6 eq. of a 20 solution of phosgene in toluol and with 224.4 mg 0.864 mmol 1.5 eq. S 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl 4 ethyl phenyl amine 3 . The raw product is purified via HPLC which yields 276 mg 0.537 mmol 93 of 5.

The nitro compound 5 obtained in step 2 is reduced with 9 equivalents of tindichloride dihydrate according to GP 3B. The raw product is purified via HPLC. This yields 190 mg of the desired compound 6.

701 l 5.0 mmol S 4 chloro alpha methylbenzylamine 1 react according to GP 1B with 757 l 6.5 mmol 1.3 eq. Lutidin 1.18 g 6.5 mmol 1.3 eq. copper II acetate and 1.7 g 10.0 mmol 2.0 eq. 2 fluoro 4 methoxybenzyl boronic acid 2 . After flash chromatographical purification hexane ethylacetate 10 1 23.9 mg 0.086 mmol of the desired amine 3 is yielded.

42.5 mg 0.186 mmol 2 eq. 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 4 react according to GP 2A with 24.6 mg 0.232 mmol 2.5 eq. sodium carbonate 122 l 0.232 mmol 2.5 eq. of a 20 solution of phosgen in toluol and 26.0 mg 0.093 mmol 1.0 eq. 

 S 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl 2 fluoro 4 methoxy phenyl amine 3 . The raw product is purified via HPLC. This yields 12 mg 0.023 mmol 26 of compound 5.

The nitro compound 5 obtained in step 2 is reduced with 9 eq. of tindichloride dihydrate according to GP 3B. Purification of the raw product via HPLC yields 8 mg of the desired compound 6.

2.02 ml 14.8 mmol 4 isopropylaniline 1 react according to GP 1A with 4 methoxy benzaldehyde 2 . As raw product 3.44 g 13.5 mmol 91 of compound 3 is yielded which is used without purification for the next reaction step.

724 mg 3.17 mmol 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylanine 4 react according to GP 2A with 1.05 g 4.12 mmol 1.3 eq. 4 isopropyl phenyl 4 methoxy benzyl amine 3 . Flash chromatographical purification hexane ethylacetate 12 1 yields 78 mg 0.15 mmol of compound 5.

The nitro compound 5 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3A. This yields 34.4 mg 0.072 mmol 47 of compound 6 as raw product which is used without purification in the next reaction step.

34.4 mg 0.072 mmol 3 3 amino 5 chloro 2 6 diethyl phenyl 1 4 isopropyl phenyl 1 4 methoxy benzyl urea 6 react according to GP 1A with 9.0 l 0.108 mmol 1.5 eq. 2 furaldehyd 7 32.1 l 0.108 mmol 1.5 eq. titanium tetraisopropylate and 4.1 mg 0.108 mmol 1.5 eq. sodium borhydride. The obtained raw product is purified via HPLC which yields 14 mg of the desired compound 8.

10.0 mg 0.021 mmol 3 3 amino 5 chloro 2 6 diethyl phenyl 1 4 isopropyl phenyl 1 4 methoxy benzyl urea 6 is desolved in DMF. 11.1 mg 0.105 mmol 5.0 eq. sodium carbonate is added. To the obtained solution 10.8 l 0.105 mmol 5.0 eq. 2 chloro N N dimethyl acetamide 7 is added. The solution is heated to 40 C. and stirred for 4 days. The obtained raw product is purified via HPLC which yields 5 mg of the desired compound 8.

4.42 ml 26.8 mmol 2 6 diethyl phenylamine 1 react according to example 3. Flash chromatographical separation yields 4.41 g 22.7 mmol 85 of compound 2.

587 mg 3.02 mmol 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 4 react according GP 2A with 2.54 ml 4.83 mmol 1.6 eq. of a 20 solution of phosgen in toluol and 1.0 g 3.92 mmol 1.3 eq. of 4 isopropyl phenyl 4 methoxy benzyl amine 3 . Flash chromatographical purification hexane ethyl acetate 12 1 yields 1.16 g 2.43 mmol 80.5 of compound 5.

The nitrocompound 5 obtained in step 2 is reduced according to GP 3A. The raw product is purified via HPLC yielding 800 mg of the desired amin 6.

44.6 mg 0.1 mmol 3 3 amino 2 6 diethyl phenyl 1 4 isopropyl phenyl 1 4 methoxy benzyl urea 6 react according to GP 1A with 2.8 l 0.05 mmol 0.5 eq. of acetaldehyde 7 but without titanium tetraisopropylat. The obtained raw product is purified via HPLC which yields 21 mg mmol of the desired compound 8.

50 mg 0.278 mmol 4 methoxy 2 formylphenylboronic acid 1 is desolved in methanol. 32 mg 0.834 mmol 3 eq. sodium borhydride are carefully added. After 2 hours of stirring at room temperature the solvent is removed in the evaporator. After adding 50 ml of saturated sodium chloride solution and 50 ml ethylacetate the aqueous phase is extracted three times with ethylacetate. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed in vacuum. The raw product is used without purification in the next reaction step.

292 l 2.085 mmol 5 eq. of S 4 chlora alpha methylbenzylamine 3 react according to GP 1B with 76 mg 0.417 mmol 1.0 eq. of 2 hydroxymethyl 4 methoxybenzyl boronic acid 2 . Flash chromatographical purification hexane ethylacetate 10 1 yields 58.6 mg 0.2 mmol 48 of the desired amine 4.

According to GP 2A 55.1 mg 0.24 mmol 1.2 eq. of 3 chloro 2 6 diethyl 5 nitro phenylamine 5 react with 58.6 mg 0.2 mmol 1.0 eq. of S 1 4 chlorphenyl ethyl 2 hydroxymethyl 4 methoxy phenyl amine 4 . The obtained raw product is purified via HPLC yielding 82.8 mg 0.152 mmol 76 of compound 6.

The nitro compound 6 obtained in step 3 is reduced according to GP 3C and the raw product is purified via HPLC. The procedure yields 65 mg of the desired compound 7.

Compounds 11 and 13 were synthesized and purified via HPLC eluent MeCN HO with varying volume proportions 0.05 TFA .

Compound 11 is synthesized as follows 50 mg 0.186 mmol of 4 isopropylphenyl 4 dimethylaminobenzyl amine is desolved in 2 ml of acetonitrile. 60 l 0.280 mmol 1.5 eq. 2 6 diisopropylphenylisocyanate and 51 mg 0.373 mmol 2.0 eq. potassium carbonate are added and the solution is stirred for 24 hours at room temperature. As work up the reaction solution is concentrated in vacuum and after addition of 20 ml water extracted two times with EE. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulphate and the solvent is removed in vacuum. Purification via HPLC yields 38 mg 0.081 mmol 44 of the desired compound 11.

The fractions containing the desired compound are lyophilized. In this way 1 40 mg of the compounds 11 and 13 are isolated as solid. Due to the basic amino groups the compounds are obtained as TFA salts. 0.5 10 mg of the solid are stored under the influence of light at room temperature to determine their stability over time.

It turns out that under the conditions described according to the state of the art compound 11 described to show a binding affinity to the C5a receptor of 100 nM EP1308438 is not stable. Decomposition into 2 compounds with masses of 338 and 604 occurs possibly via benzyl transfer see reaction equation below . Thus the compound is not suited to be used as a drug at least not as TFA salt.

In contrast compound 13 of the invention described herein does not show such instabilities which is a clear advantage compared to current state of the art compounds.

The whole blood assay is carried out according to the instructions from the Phagoburst Kit Orpegen Pharma . 50 g ml of Refludan is used to inhibit blood clotting Mollnes et al. 2002 Blood 100 1869 .

Freshly drawn anticoagulated blood is cooled over ice and 100 l thereof are added to 10 l of the compound solution containing at most 1.3 of DMSO. The mixture is incubated for 10 minutes at 37 C. After this the samples are put on ice again and 20 l of opsonisated suspension 10cells ml is added followed by 10 minutes of incubation at 37 C. 20 l of the substrate are added to the cells followed by another 10 minutes of incubation at 37 C. After this 2 ml of lysis buffer are added to the cells which are then kept at room temperature for 20 minutes. The cellular components are separated by centrifugation at 250 g for 5 minutes. The supernatant is discarded and 3 ml of washing solution are added to the pellet. The cells are centrifuged again and the resulting pellet is taken up in 200 l DNA staining solution. The neutrophiles are analysed by means of a FACS device FACSCalibur Becton Dickinson according to the parameters given in the manual. Table 5 shows the ICvalues determined from human whole blood. It can be seen that due to the determined activity the compounds of this invention are suited to be used as therapeutics in human.

The binding studies are done as determination of ICvalues with radioactively labeled C5a 125I as tracer. For this purpose human C5aR transfected HEK293 cells are adjusted to a concentration of 5 106 l ml. 30 l of the cell suspension are added into a microtiter plate. Then the C5a receptor antagonists are added followed by 10 minutes pre incubation at room temperature. After that 10 l of labelled C5a are added 15.000 cpm . The mixture is now incubated over ice for 30 minutes. After this the cells are isolated by means of a filter plate Millipore MHVB 4510 and washed two times with 100 l HAG CM each see example 32 . The cells are dried and after transferring the filter plate onto the adapter plate Canberra 6005178 50 l well Microscint 0 are added and the plate is measured in the scintillation counter.

Table 6 shows the ICvalues for the binding to the C5a receptor. As can be seen the compounds of this invention are inhibitors of the binding of C5a to the C5a receptor.

The assay has been described by K hl K hl 1997 The Anaphylatoxins. In Dodds A. W. Sim R. B. Eds. Complement A Practical Approach. Oxford 135 . Basophile leukemia cells from rats RBL which express the human C5a receptor CD88 are cultivated in DMEM with 10 fetal calf serum 100 U ml penicillin 100 g ml streptomycin and 2 mM glutamin all constituents are from Biochrome Berlin at 37 C. and with 10 COuntil a confluent layer is obtained. All following details refer to a tissue culture flask with 75 cmsurface. The used up medium is removed. The cells are washed with 10 ml PBS Dulbecco s PBS Biochrome and then covered with 3 ml cell dissociation solution CDS Sigma . The cells are incubated for 1 minute at room temperature. Then the CDS is removed and the cells are incubated for further 10 15 minutes at 37 C. to detach the cells completely from the flask. 20 l solution of the compound to be testet are used in the assay. The assay solution must not contain more than 2.8 DMSO. The dilution series are prepared in or steps. To the 20 l of the compound solutions 75 l RBL cells are added which are prepared as follows After the detachment of the cells from the flask surface they are taken up with 10 ml HAG CM 20 mM HEPES 125 mM NaCl 5 mM KCl 1 mM CaCl 1 mM MgCl 0.5 mM glucose 0.25 BSA. HEPES preparation 2.3 g l HEPES salt 2.66 g l HEPES acid thermostated at 37 C. The cells are counted and centrifuged 200 g 10 min . The cell pellet is taken up with pre heated HAG CM and the cell density is adjusted to 2 10Zellen ml. The cells are incubated for 5 minutes at 37 C. 2.7 l of a cytochalasin B solution 1000 g ml in DMSO Sigma are added per ml cell suspension. The Zellen are incubated for another 3 min at 37 C. Then 75 l of the cell suspension are added to the 20 l solution containing the compounds to be tested. Thus a volume of 95111 per well is obtained. The cells are again incubated for 10 minutes at 37 C. Then 10 l hrC5a 10.5 nM in HAG CM Sigma are added per well which is followed by 5 minutes incubation at 37 C. After this the plates are put on ice and centrifuged for 3 minutes at 1200 g and 4 C. 75 l of the supernatant are added to 100 l substrate solution 2.7 mg ml p nitrophenyl N acetyl b D glucosaminide Sigma in 42.5 mM sodium acetate pH 4.5 . The plate is incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. Per well 75 l 0.4 M glycine pH 10.4 are added. After this the plate can be measured at a wave length of 405 nm. The ICvalue is determined by solving the four parameter equation y A D 1 x C D.

A comparison of compounds 24 and 31 shows that a NR21R22 group can result in an increased antagonistic activity. By introducing a NHgroup in 24 an increase of the activity by a factor of 6.4 is observed given are the ICvalues for the inhibition C5a triggered enzyme release according to example 28 .

Introduction of a chiral center at a suitable position can have a positive effect on the antagonistic activity. This is observed for example in the case of compounds 66 31 and 56 in which the S configuration 66 shows 11 times higher antagonistic activity as the R configuration 56 given are the ICvalues for the inhibition C5a triggered enzyme release according to example 32 .

Surprisingly the present inventors have found that the introduction of a hydrogen bond donor at the R3 position in structure IV leads to an increased antagonistic activity.

This has been shown for example for compounds 98 and 120. Here the exchange of a CHgroup by a NH group results in an improvement of the antagonistic activity by a factor of 4.5 given are the ICvalues for the inhibition C5a triggered enzyme release according to example 32 .

The determination of the ECvalue is comparable to the procedure described in example 32. The only difference is the fact that 30 l of the substance to be tested are mixed with 75 l of the cell suspension described in example 28. The cells are not pre incubated and no C5a is added to stimulate enzyme release. The results for the compounds tested are given in Table 2. Apparently none of the tested compounds shows significant agonistic activity.

To determine the solubility the compound to be measured is dissolved e.g 2 M of a 5 mM solution in DMSO in organic solvent e.g. 198 l DMSO as well as in aqueous buffer solution e.g. 198 l HEPES buffer . Both solutions are analyzed via analytical HPLC and the areas under the peaks are compared. The value for the organic solution is taken as 100 . The presented compounds Table 3 are significantly better soluble in aqueous HEPES buffer than compound 20.

Compounds to be tested are prepared at a concentration of 50 M in HBSS MES 5 mM pH 6.5 from a 10 mM stock solution in 100 DMSO . C mannitol about 4 M is added and the solution is mixed and centrifuged. The supernatant is added to the apical side of a TC 7 cell culture passage 15 in 24 well transwell plate to obtain a DMSO concentration of 1 . At the basolateral side HBSS HEPES 5 mM pH 7.4 is placed. Subsequently the cells are incubated for 120 minutes at 37 C. The integrity of the TC 7 cell layer is checked by means of the added mannitol P

The presented compounds Table 4 are permeable which might be an indicator that the compounds are orally available.

C5a induced neutropenia is a model for shock induced diseases e.g. septic shock where amongst others the systemic role of C5a blood pressure decrease neutropenia plays an important role. The reason for the decrease of the neutrophils in the circulation is their binding to the vessel walls due to the C5a stimulus. These processes of neutrophil recruitment are playing an important role in many other diseases like reperfusion injury. This model was also described by Short et al. 1999 British Journal of Pharmacology 125 551 554 .

Male gerbils are anaesthesized i.p. with ketamine 80 mg kg and xylazine 12 mg kg . The animals are intubated and a catheter is inserted in the jugular vene and the animals are subjected to the following procedure 

1. The gerbils are pre treated with vehicle or the compounds of the present invention 80 3 mg kg or 131 1 mg kg via i.v. infusion.

3. Blood samples about 0.2 ml are taken into lithium heparin vials from the jugular vene and are used for the differential blood count.

Blood smears are prepared from the heparinized blood samples. Each sample is dehydrated with methanol prior to the staining. After fixation each sample is incubated for 5 minutes with May Gr nwald staining. After this the samples are washed with aqua dest. Subsequently a Giemsa staining is done for 2 minutes and the samples are washed again.

The differential cell count is determined as the sum of neutrophils eosinophile easophile lymphocytes and monocytes from 100 cells. Then the percentage of neutrophils in relation to all white blood cells is determined.

The result is presented in in which the course of the neutropenia in gerbil after administration of C5a and vehicle or compound is shown. It can be seen that treatment with compounds 131 and 80 significantly reduces C5a induced neutropenia. Thus in this inflammation model the compounds show the desired anti inflammatory effect.

The properties disclosed in the above descriptions claims or drawings of the invention can be separately or in arbitrary combination relevant for the fulfilment of the invention in different execute modes.

