---

title: Method for distributing and executing service logic
abstract: A method of distributing and executing service logic across private and public networks for the generation and provision of telecommunication services is disclosed. The functionality and capabilities associated with both Intelligent Network (IN) and non-IN compliant elements of a public telecommunications system are abstracted using a set of control and informational parameters and variables which are associated with a given network element or network element category. A service creation and execution application programming interface provides access to a service creation and execution environment which is distributed in public network gateways, private network gateways, and in compatible software platforms. The distributed service creation and execution environment enable the generation, provisioning, and execution of applications across private and public telecommunication networks in order to provide novel telecommunication services via the serial or concurrent invocation of one or more distributed applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07881286&OS=07881286&RS=07881286
owner: Redknee Inc.
number: 07881286
owner_city: 
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20061228
---
The present application is a divisional application claiming priority from U.S. Ser. No. 10 066 745 filed Feb. 6 2002 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Mobile network operators are faced with the challenge of introducing new applications and services. The ability to introduce new functionality that delivers competitive differentiation quickly cost effectively and that can evolve with ease to next generation network environments are considered essential attributes by network operators.

SS7 networks have dramatically improved efficiencies of circuit switched networks and have provided for the ability to decouple control logic and network intelligence from switching centers through the introduction of Intelligent Network IN core elements including Service Control Points SCPs and Intelligent Peripherals IPs . The ability to send information out of band from the underlying circuit switched bearer channels and the decoupling of service logic has enabled a host of value added services including Calling Party Identification Toll free Prepaid and Short Message services.

In particular Service Creation Environments SCEs associated with Intelligent Network IN infrastructure have provided operators with the ability to deal with the complexities of designing and introducing new applications which utilize the existing terminal mobility infrastructure based on a Basic State Call Model BSCM which in turn is comprised of several interlinked Trigger Detection Points TDPs . If certain conditions are met when call processing arrives at a TDP normal call processing is interrupted in order to retrieve supplemental instructions from service logic which resides outside of the end office on a Service Control Point SCP . Call processing resumes once a response is received from the SCP accommodating for any supplemental instructions provided by the SCP.

The SCE environment associated with IN infrastructure has typically required a high degree of specialization in order to understand the nuances of the underlying signalling protocols of the telecommunications environment as well as the vendor specific proprietary implementation of the SCE environment. The existing SCE environment associated with IN infrastructure therefore lacks a set of open programming language independent application programming interfaces which abstract and distil the functionality and capabilities of the underlying network elements and which leverage available development tools which are commonly available in the Information Technology IT environment.

The existing SCE environment has also been focused with respect to the provision of services which involve the functionality and capabilities of network elements within the public telecommunications network. The existing SCE environment does not allow for the management provisioning generation and execution of telecommunication services beyond the domain of the telecommunications network. Specifically existing SCE environments do not allow for the management provisioning generation and execution of telecommunication services on a computer platform located in the private network via an application programming interface. Similarly existing SCE environments do not allow for the management provisioning generation and execution of telecommunication services which involve the functionality and capabilities of network elements located within the domain of the private network.

Many of these limitations have been based on the reliance of defined IN protocols such as ANSI 41 Wireless Intelligent Network WIN Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Intelligent Network Application Part INAP and GSM Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic CAMEL which accommodate for the transfer of service requests and responses among the network elements associated with the IN network. From the perspective of providing an accelerated method and system of generating compelling new services these protocols are deficient in that they only address a subset of the functionality associated with a given network element. In particular existing SCE environments do not attempt to access the entire spectrum of functionality or abstract the capabilities of a given network element by interfacing with the network element using the native protocols supported by the network elements. This deficiency is particularly evident in the case of network elements associated with private networks in that IN protocols do not address the functionality and capabilities provided by private network elements.

There are no known prior art teachings of a solution to the aforementioned deficiencies and shortcomings such as that disclosed herein. The prior art describes various mechanisms of generating specific services utilizing the existing capabilities of the existing SCE and IN environment methods and systems of improving selected facets of the existing SCE and IN environment in order to provide complimentary capabilities via additional adjuncts located in the public or private domain or methods and systems of providing a limited degree of interaction with private networks.

In particular U.S. Pat. No. 6 044 274 by Vo et al. provides for a mechanism whereby a given call from an non IN capable end office is redirected to an IN capable end office for the purpose of applying the IN call model for the call. However Vo et al. does not teach or suggest a method of providing telecommunication services utilizing the existing interfaces provided by the end office.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 094 479 by Lindeberg et al. provides a bridging functionality for the purpose allowing a Computer Telephony Integration CTI server to emulate a public IN network element and to request a service from an existing IN service control point. However Lindeberg et al. does not does not teach or suggest a method of provisioning managing generating and executing services in a distributed fashion between the private and public domain.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 098 094 by Barnhouse et al. provides for a system which would directly replace the service switching component of existing IN networks with a distributed network architecture of computer servers. However Barnhouse et al. does not does not teach or suggest a method of utilizing the existing base of network elements in the public and private domain.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 104 797 by Nabkel et. al. provides for a method of generating new telecommunication services by distributing the intelligence presently resident in the public telecommunications network via the use of specialized Customer Premises Equipment CPE referred to as a Intelligent Communications Device ICD . However Nabkel et. al does not does not teach or suggest a method of utilizing the existing base of customer premises equipment and mobile stations in the public and private domain.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 115 746 by Waters et al. provides a mechanism of generating new telecommunications services by inserting new service logic into an existing IN service control point via a set of Intelligent Peripheral Controllers IPCs and Intelligent Peripheral Adapters IPAs which abstract the service logic associated with the SCP. However Waters et. al does not does not teach or suggest a method of abstracting the capabilities of other network elements in the private and public domain.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 178 438 by Tschirhart et al. provides a distributed service management system for an IN environment. However Tschirhart et al. does not does not teach or suggest a method of extending the distributed service management system to include the network elements in the private domain nor does Tschirhart et al. teach or suggest a method of providing telecommunication services utilizing the existing non IN interfaces provided by the underlying Network Elements.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 345 502 September 1994 Rothenhofer 379 221 U.S. Pat. No. 5 764 977 June 1998 Oulid Aissa et al. 707 10 U.S. Pat. No. 5 708 702 January 1998 De Paul et al. 379 221 U.S. Pat. No. 5 862 334 January 1999 Schwartz et al. 709 223 U.S. Pat. No. 6 014 377 January 2000 Gillespie 370 351 U.S. Pat. No. 6 016 318 January 2000 Tomoike 370 401 U.S. Pat. No. 6 029 067 February 2000 Pfundstein 455 426 U.S. Pat. No. 6 038 456 March 2000 Colby et al. 455 456 U.S. Pat. No. 6 044 274 March 2000 Vo et al. 455 461 U.S. Pat. No. 6 094 479 July 2000 Lindeberg et al. 379 220 U.S. Pat. No. 6 097 937 August 2000 Sawyer 455 406 U.S. Pat. No. 6 098 094 August 2000 Barnhouse et al. 709 203 U.S. Pat. No. 6 104 797 August 2000 Nabkel et al. 379 201 U.S. Pat. No. 6 115 746 September 2000 Waters et al. 709 229 U.S. Pat. No. 6 161 012 December 2000 Fenton et al. 455 432 U.S. Pat. No. 6 178 438 January 2001 Tschirhart et al. 709 200.

GSM 02.78 Digital cellular telecommunications systems Phase 2 Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic CAMEL Stage 1 .

GSM 03.78 Digital cellular telecommunications systems Phase 2 Customized Applications for Mobile network Enhanced Logic CAMEL Stage 2 .

GSM 03.40 Digital cellular telecommunications system Phase 2 Technical realization of the Short Message Service SMS .

GSM 09.02 ETS 300 974 Digital cellular telecommunications system Phase 2 Mobile Application Part MAP specification .

Heine Gunnar. GSM Networks Protocols Terminology and Implementation Artech House Inc. Norwood Mass. 1999 .

Christensen G. Florack P. G. Duncan R. Wireless Intelligent Networking Artech House Inc. Norwood Mass. 2001 . TECHNICAL FIELD

The present invention relates to telecommunication network implementations and in particular to a method and system for distributing and executing service logic for the provision of telecommunication services in both private and public networks.

A method of distributing and executing service logic across private and public networks for the generation and provision of telecommunication services is disclosed.

The functionality and capabilities associated with both Intelligent Network IN and non IN compliant elements of a public telecommunications system are abstracted into one or more network element objects NEOs using a set of control and informational parameters and variables which are associated with a given network element or network element category. A service creation and execution environment SCEE provides an open service creation environment which provides a developer the ability to generate and provision applications using NEOs in conjunction with a service creation and execution application programming interface SCEAPI .

SCEAPI provides access to SCEE which resides in a public network gateway PNG by means of referencing NEOs or invoking SCEE compliant applications using directives along with any associated parameters.

A PNG interfaces with plurality of network elements which may reside in a plurality of networks either directly or indirectly via a plurality of telecommunication protocols via a Network Interface Layer NIL . SCEAPI in conjunction with the PNS provides for a distributed service creation and execution environment in order to enable the generation provisioning and execution of services in a manner which is independent of the complexities and nuances of the underlying network infrastructure. A given service may be generated and provisioned for example by invoking the call processing or billing processes resident in the underlying network elements using SCEAPI.

A private network gateway PVNG is a variant of the PNG which is located outside the public network domain. The PVNG is functionally similar to the PNG in that it supports SCEAPI and contains SCEE in order to order to enable the generation and provisioning of services by abstracting the informational and control parameters and variables associated with network elements or network element categories associated with the private network domain.

SCEE compliant applications may be developed and executed on the PNG or PVNG or may be developed and executed on alternative SCEE compliant software platforms. The PNG PVNG and other SCEE compliant servers communicate with each other via SCEAPI. SCEAPI is used in order to relay SCEE compliant service logic including service requests and responses to access a network element in the underlying public or private network or to invoke SCEE compliant applications resident on the SCEE compliant software platform. SCEE compliant applications may in turn issue other SCEAPI directives in order to invoke capabilities supported by the software platform. Alternatively SCEE compliant applications may in turn invoke other SCEE compliant applications resident on the software platform or other SCEE compliant software platforms.

The PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEAPI and SCEE enable the generation and provisioning of services in both the public and private domain. In particular the applications supported directly or indirectly by the PNG and PVNG via SCEAPI permit the capabilities provided by the public and private network elements to be utilized and controlled in a manner which is defined by the service creation and execution environment resident on the PNG and PVNG and only limited by the underlying capabilities of the network elements and any restrictions imposed by the operators of networks associated with the public and private domain.

The PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEAPI and SCEE enable the generation provisioning and execution of applications which may be invoked in a serial or concurrent fashion to provide telecommunication services in a distributed fashion across a plurality of PNGs and PVNGs. As an example of the use of the SCEE and SCEAPI the PVNG may be used to develop applications for the public network by utilizing SCEAPI and SCEE in order to provide access to the network elements under the control of the PNG. For example a service for a public telecommunications network may be formulated on a PVNG using SCEE and relayed via a communication channel to the PNG which will validate the service logic and invoke the requisite capabilities in the underlying public network s upon receiving a service invocation request from the PVNG. Alternatively applications may be developed independently on the PVNG and PNG and invoked via SCEAPI compliant directives from a co resident application or by an application resident on an alternative PVNG or PNG.

An aspect of the specification provides a method of communicating with a private or public telecommunications system. The method comprises interfacing with the network elements which comprise a public communication network wherein the network includes network elements consisting of at least one switching center and an intelligent network that includes a number of network elements having a service switching function or service control function. The method further comprises interfacing with the network elements which comprise a private communication network wherein the network includes a private branch exchange in which access is provided between the public communications network and the private network over at least one interface. The method further comprises utilizing the native communication protocols supported by the network elements located in the domain of both the public communications network and private network.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the informational and control parameters and variables associated with a public telecommunications network element are distilled into a vector of alphanumeric values or objects.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the vector of alphanumeric values or objects may define the state of a particular subscriber.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the vector of alphanumeric values or objects may define the state of a particular circuit switched or packet switched session.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the vector of alphanumeric values or objects may define the controllable attributes of a public telecommunications network element.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the vector of alphanumeric values or objects may be a set of alphanumeric values or objects. Further a set of alphanumeric values or objects set may be utilized to provide an application programming interface which execute on a computer platform.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the informational and control parameters and variables associated with a private network element are distilled into a vector of alphanumeric values or objects.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the vector of alphanumeric values or objects may define the state of a particular subscriber.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the vector of alphanumeric values or objects may define the state of a particular circuit switched or packet switched session.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the vector of alphanumeric values or objects may define the controllable attributes of a private network element.

A method according to a specific aspect of the foregoing provides that the vector of alphanumeric values or objects may be a set of alphanumeric values or objects. Further a set of alphanumeric values or objects set may be utilized to provide an application programming interface which execute on a computer platform.

As an example of the use of the SCEE and SCEAPI to provide telecommunication services via the serial or concurrent execution of applications resident on PNGs or PVNGs upon meeting an initial set of conditional requirements associated with a subscriber s profile such as the time of day an application resident on a PNG or PVNG may invoke one or more applications resident on an alternative PNG or PVNG via a SCEAPI directive. The alternative PNG or PVNG will validate the request and invoke the requisite capabilities in the underlying public or private networks or other applications or resources resident on the PNG or PVNG in a serial or concurrent fashion pursuant to the SCEAPI compliant commands and parameters provided by the invoking application and pursuant to any incremental conditional requirements defined by service logic and other conditional requirements associated with the invoked applications. This method of providing telecommunication services can be extended in that the alternative PNG or PVNG may elect pursuant to the execution of service logic invoke applications resident in a plurality of other alternative PNGs or PVNGs in a concurrent or serial fashion.

The PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEE and SCEAPI therefore provides a method of distributing and executing service logic across private and public networks for the generation and provision of telecommunication services via a distributed service creation and execution environment.

In the following description for purposes of explanation and not limitation specific details are set forth such as particular embodiments elements interfaces hardware configurations data structures software flows techniques etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced in other embodiments that depart from these specific details. In other instances detailed descriptions of well known methods devices and elements are omitted so as not to obscure the description of the present invention with unnecessary detail.

Referring to a functional block diagram of the public network gateway PNG is shown. PNG will reside on a software platform not shown designed to support the development and execution of applications. The software platform may include an object request broker ORB agent not shown a distributed object management environment for interprocess communications not shown an event manager that coordinates and distributes events according to the priority indicated by processes not shown and a service manager that provides process level control for application processes not shown . Not shown is the user interface for the PNG which provides the operational support that is required throughout the process of service creation such as service documentation managed object definition interface definition protocol definition and data input definition. The collection of operations are encapsulated in managed objects which may be manipulated via a Graphical User Interface GUI or invoked via command line instructions.

The functionality and capabilities associated with both Intelligent Network IN and non IN compliant elements of a public telecommunications system are abstracted into one or more network element objects NEOs using a set of control and informational parameters and variables which are associated with a given network element or network element category.

Referring to a service creation and execution environment SCEE provides an open service creation environment which provides a developer the ability to generate and provision applications using NEOs in conjunction with the service creation and execution application programming interface SCEAPI . SCEAPI provides access to SCEE which resides in a public network gateway PNG by means of referencing NEOs or invoking SCEE compliant applications using directives along with any associated parameters. SCEAPI and SCEE enable the generation and provisioning of services in a manner which is independent of the complexities and nuances of the underlying network infrastructure. In particular a given NEO may be reused in order to communicate and control a variety of network elements produced by different vendors as variations in the parametric and logical attributes of the network elements are accommodated by mapping a functional or informational element into the control and informational parameters required by the network element. SCEE includes a number of subcomponents in order to provide for a variety of object oriented application programming interfaces. A common object request broker architecture CORBA and extensible markup language XML compliant subcomponents have been depicted. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other object oriented application programming interfaces may serve the same purpose without diluting the intent and scope of the present invention. A database is used to store and retrieve information including but not limited to applications network elements users interconnected networks and sessions. A memory is used for storage of service execution logic. SCEE interacts with the network interface layer NIL in order to access communicate and control the network elements in the public telecommunications network via a suitable communications link and interface protocol . Database contains data pertaining to a the state of circuit switched calls data packet sessions and applications and b state and profile information pertaining to subscribers. In a present embodiment the state and profile information in data of a group of subscribers is associated with a single record.

The informational and control parameters and variables associated with a public telecommunications network element are distilled into a vector or set of alphanumeric values or objects. A vector of alphanumeric values or objects may define the state of a particular subscriber the state of a particular circuit switched or packet switched session and or the controllable attributes of a public telecommunications network element. A set alphanumeric values or objects may be utilized to provide an application programming interface which execute on a computer platform.

Referring to NIL interacts with network elements in the public telecommunications network including but not limited to operation support systems customer care systems service switching points SSPs service control points SCPs short message service centers SMS Cs intelligent peripherals IPs and home location registers HLRs . NIL utilizes a number of subcomponents which transcodes and formats messages and commands in a manner which complies with the interconnection protocols supported by a plurality of network elements. Protocol transcoding subcomponents depicted in include those which support Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA 11 T1 E112 H.323 13 session initiation protocol SIP short message peer to peer SMPP transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP simple network management protocol SNMP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP computer telephony integration CTI and signaling system 7 SS7 . Those skilled in the art will recognize that other interconnection protocols may serve a similar purpose without diluting the intent and scope of the present invention. Not shown are the terminal adaptors which would provide the physical connectivity associated with a communications link for the purpose of establishing connectivity to a network element.

Referring to applications which utilize SCEAPI to access SCEE may reside on the PNG or may reside on alternative software platforms . The alternative software platforms may reside within the domain of the public network or in a domain external to the public network The applications resident on the external software platforms may communicate with the PNG using the objects defined by SCEAPI and SCEE via a communications link. The communications link may utilize a variety of signalling protocols including transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP . Not shown is the mediation function which screens incoming objects for SCEAPI and SCEE compliance. By extending the use of SCEAPI and SCEE to alternative software platforms the service creation environment may be extended outside the PNG and outside the public network domain. In particular a service for a public telecommunications network may be formulated on an alternative software platform and relayed via a communication channel to the PNG which will validate the request and invoke the requisite capabilities in the underlying public network s .

Referring to a private network gateway PVNG is a variant of the PNG which is located outside the public network domain.

Referring to the PVNG is functionally similar to the PNG in that it contains SCEE in order to provide for a service creation environment and NIL to access and control network elements. The PVNG is tailored to the environment defined by the private domain and will contain subcomponents and NEOs which are tailored to the private domain. For example the PVNG may support NEOs and the associated NIL subcomponents in order to access and control a network element such as a private branch exchange PBX via suitable communications link and interface protocol such as TCP IP. As in the case of the PNG SCEAPI compliant applications may be developed and executed on the PVNG or may be developed and executed on alternative software platforms . The alternative software platforms may reside within the domain of the private network or in a domain external to the private network . The PVNG may be used to develop applications for the public network by utilizing SCEAPI in order to provide access to the network elements under the control of the PNG .

The informational and control parameters and variables associated with a private network element are distilled into a vector or set of alphanumeric values or objects. A vector of alphanumeric values or objects may define the state of a particular subscriber the state of a particular circuit switched or packet switched session and or the controllable attributes of a private network element. A set alphanumeric values or objects may be utilized to provide an application programming interface which execute on a computer platform.

Referring to and FIG. . SCEE compliant applications may be developed and executed on the PNG or PVNG or may be developed and executed on alternative SCEE compliant software platforms.

The PNG PVNG and other SCEE compliant servers communicate with each other via SCEAPI . SCEAPI may be used in order to relay SCEE compliant service logic including service requests and responses to access a network element in the underlying public or private network or to invoke SCEE compliant applications resident on the SCEE compliant software platform. SCEE compliant applications may in turn issue other SCEAPI directives in order to invoke capabilities supported by the software platform. Alternatively SCEE compliant applications may in turn invoke other SCEE compliant applications resident on the software platform or other SCEE compliant software platforms.

Referring to the configuration of the PNG and PVNG in an example telecommunications system is illustrated in a block diagram. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the illustrated network elements do not represent all of the physical nodes used to realize a public or private telecommunications network.

Referring to the SS7 network provides signalling connectivity among a number of network elements in the public network including SSPs SMS Cs SCPs and HLRs . Signalling connectivity can also be provided by other protocols including the Stream Control Transmission Protocol STCP specified by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF . The SSP provides for a source and sink of communications traffic as the SSP serves fixed stations or mobile stations . SSPs generally serve either fixed or mobile stations although in some configurations they may serve both fixed and mobile stations. SSPs serve mobile stations via base stations and radio link . The present invention may provide applications which are applicable to both mobile and fixed stations. The scope of connectivity from the SSP may be extended by providing SS7 connectivity and transport connectivity to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN .

The intelligent peripheral IP interfaces to the SSP via a transport facility such as a T1 E1 or Primary Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN link. The IP provides a voice based interface to callers and service subscribers for the purpose of playing pre recorded or voice synthesized announcements and prompts. The IP may be controlled via a logical communications link not shown established to the SCP . The PNG has connectivity to the network elements of the public network via signalling links using industry standard protocols such as SS7 X.25 or TCP IP The PNG may also interface with certain network elements of the public network such as the SSP via a transport link such as T1 E1 or Primary ISDN link in order to provide for voice based interactions in a similar fashion as the IP or to provide switching functions in a similar fashion as the SSP. The PNG may also have connectivity to the public internet for the purpose of acquiring information and content for applications which reside on the PNG.

Referring to the private branch exchange PBX provides a similar role to the SSP in that it provides for a source and sink of communications traffic in the private domain as the PBX serves fixed stations or mobile stations. PBXs generally serve either fixed or mobile stations although in some configurations they may serve both fixed and mobile stations. PBXs serve mobile stations via a base station and radio link . The present invention may provide applications which are applicable to both mobile and fixed stations . The scope of connectivity from the PBX is extended by providing transport connectivity to the PSTN . The PVNG has connectivity to the network elements of the private network industry standard protocols such as SS7 X.25 or TCP IP. The PVNG may also interface with the network elements of the private domain via a transport link such as T1 E1 or Primary ISDN link in order to provide for voice based interactions in a similar fashion as the IP or to provide switching functions in a similar fashion as the SSP.

Referring to the network elements of the private and public domain may support ITU T Intelligent Network capabilities as defined by the International Telecommunications Union ITU and the European Telecommunication Standards Institute ETSI orAdvance Intelligent Network AIN capabilities as defined by Telcordia. The present invention may provide applications which are applicable to network elements which support or do not support IN or AIN capabilities. In particular the service creation and execution environment resident on the PNG and PVNG will optionally support the incremental call control capabilities provided by IN and AIN.

Referring to the PNG may connect to the PVNG for the purpose of distributing the service creation environment between the private and public domains via SCEAPI . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEAPI and SCEE enable the generation and provisioning of new services in both the public and private domain. In particular the applications supported directly or indirectly by the PNG and PVNG via SCEAPI permit the capabilities provided by the public and private network elements to be utilized and controlled in a manner which is defined by the service creation environment resident on the PNG and PVNG and only limited by the underlying capabilities of the network elements and any restrictions imposed by the operators of networks associated with the public and private domain.

Referring to the PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEAPI and SCEE enable the generation provisioning and execution of applications which may be invoked in a serial or concurrent fashion to provide telecommunication services in a distributed fashion across a plurality of PNGs and PVNGs. As an example of the use of the SCEE and SCEAPI the PVNG may be used to develop applications for the public network by utilizing SCEAPI and SCEE in order to provide access to the network elements under the control of the PNG . For example a service for a public telecommunications network may be formulated on a PVNG and relayed via a SCEAPI compliant communication channel to the PNG which will validate the service logic and invoke the requisite capabilities in the underlying public network s upon receiving a service invocation request from the PVNG . Alternatively applications may be developed independently on the PVNG and PNG and invoked via SCEAPI and SCEE compliant directives from a co resident application or by an application resident on an alternative PVNG or PNG not shown .

Referring to as an example of the use of the SCEE and SCEAPI to provide telecommunication services via the serial or concurrent execution of applications resident on a plurality of PNGs or PVNGs upon meeting an initial set of conditional requirements associated with a subscribers profile such as the time of day an application resident on a PNG may invoke one or more applications resident on an PVNG . The PVNG will validate the request and invoke the requisite capabilities in the underlying private networks or other applications or resources resident on the PVNG in a serial or concurrent fashion pursuant to the SCEAPI compliant commands and parameters provided by the invoking application and pursuant to any incremental conditional requirements defined by service logic in the invoked applications. This method of providing telecommunication services can be extended in that the PVNG may elect pursuant to the execution of service logic and other conditional requirements invoke applications resident in a plurality of other alternative PNGs or PVNGs not shown in a concurrent or serial fashion.

Any sequence and number of PNGs or PVNGs may be invoked in order to provide a given telecommunication service. For example a PVNG may invoke two PNGs and one of the PNGs may invoke an alternative PVNG in order to provide a given telecommunication service.

Referring to the configuration of the PNG in an example telecommunications system is illustrated in a block diagram for a pre paid short message service application of the present invention. The example telecommunications system is derived from the telecommunications system illustrated in . An additional SSP mobile station and base station have been depicted in the example telecommunications network in order to provide a better understating of the present invention with reference to message flow diagrams illustrated in and .

At a mobile station submits a short message for the destination mobile station to its serving SSP via radio link and base station . The SSP receives the short message and forwards the short message to the PNG based on one or more translations. The translations required to direct the short message to the PNG may be accommodated within the SSP or within the SS7 network .

At the PNG receives the short message and invokes a prepaid short message application resident not shown on the PNG . The pre paid short message application on PNG determines the rate to be applied. Not shown are the message flows for an optional manifestation of the pre paid short message service where the PNG would accesses the HLR in order to determine the rate based on the terminating mobile station s current location. The pre paid short message application on PNG checks to see if the originating mobile station has an account balance sufficiently above a minimum threshold. In this example this validation is achieved by sending a decrement balance query to a database resident on the SCP . In an alternative manifestation of the service the database could be resident in the PNG .

At the SCP decrements the originating mobile station s balance and sends back a response which indicates the result of the SCP s action. The response would contain sufficient information to indicate whether the originating mobile station has a sufficient balance for the short message to proceed to the terminating mobile station .

At the PNG receives the response from the SCP and determines whether the message should proceed to the terminating mobile station based on the content of the response. For the purpose of this message flow sequence it will be assumed that the originating mobile station has a sufficient balance. The PNG forwards the short message to the SMS C .

At the SMS C receives the short message and queries the HLR in order to determine the current serving SSP for the terminating mobile station.

At the HLR retrieves the current serving SSP via an internal translation or database lookup and sends a response message which includes the identifier associated with the serving SSP .

At the SMS C receives the response and forwards the short message to the serving SSP indicated in the response message received from the HLR .

At the serving SSP delivers the short message to the terminating mobile station via a base station and a radio link. The serving SSP formulates and submits a short message result message to the SMS C .

At the SMS C receives the short message result message and formulates and submits delivery report to the PNG .

At the PNG receives the delivery report and forwards the content of the delivery report to the pre paid short message application resident not shown on the PNG . The pre paid short message application formulates and submits a short message to the MSC . The content and format of the short message may vary pursuant to the telecommunication network providers requirements. The received delivery report may also be used to provide a conciliation function in that the balance associated with the calling mobile station may be adjusted depending on the outcome of the short message submission function carried out by the serving SSP at .

At the SSP delivers the short message to the originating mobile station via a base station and a radio link.

Referring to and those skilled in the art will appreciate that the service creation environment provided by the PNG in conjunction with SCEAPI and SCEE has provided for an innovative prepaid short message service offering which may not have otherwise been supported using the underlying network infrastructure.

Referring to the configuration of the PNG and PVNG in an example telecommunications system is illustrated in a block diagram for a virtual private network service application of the present invention. The example telecommunications system is derived from the telecommunications systems illustrated in and and will be used to illustrated a virtual private network service application of the present invention with reference to the message flow diagrams illustrated in and .

At a mobile station submits a service request for the destination mobile station to its serving SSP via a radio link and base station . The service request contains the private virtual network address for the destination mobile station . The private virtual network address will generally not be consistent with the addressing scheme used by the public telecommunications network. For example the private virtual network address may contain fewer digits than the addressing scheme used by the public telecommunications network. The SSP receives the service request and formulates a query which is forwarded to the PNG . The translations required to direct the query to the PNG may be accommodated within the SSP or within the SS7 network. The SSP may use an IN or AIN trigger in order to detect the use of the private virtual network addressing scheme.

At the PNG receives the query and invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PNG in order to ascertain state and profile information pertaining to subscribers. Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the service logic for this particular application resides on the PVNG . For a group of subscribers such a database lookup would be associated with a single record. The PNG forwards the query to the PVNG via SCEAPI .

At the PVNG receives the query and invokes a private virtual network application not shown resident on the PVNG . The private virtual network application maps the private virtual network address to the destination address associated with the terminating mobile station which is supported by the public telecommunications network. The PVNG formulates and sends a response which contains the public destination address associated with the terminating mobile station to the PNG via SCEAPI .

At the PNG receives the response from the PVNG and invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PNG in order to ascertain state and profile information pertaining to subscribers. For a group of subscribers such a database lookup would be associated with a single record. Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the response was associated with a previous query and formulates a response which will forward the instructions received from the PVNG to the SSP . The content and format of the response may vary pursuant to the telecommunication network providers requirements including the capabilities supported by the SSP . For example the response message would vary as a function of whether the SSP supports IN or AIN compliant triggers.

At the SSP invokes the procedures to establish a call to the terminating SSP . Not shown are the message flows which are used to establish connectivity via the circuit switched or packet based network. Not shown are the message flows which may be required in order to determine the serving SSP via an HLR in a mobile environment.

At a voice connection between the originating mobile station and the destination mobile station is established and voice communication takes place. During this call the virtual private networking application resident on the PVNG maintains call timers for the call in order to generate an event record upon call termination.

At upon recognizing that the call has terminated the originating SSP formulates a query indicating that the call has been terminated and forwards the query to the PNG . The query is received by the PNG and the subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PNG is invoked. Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application formulates a response which will forward the query received from the PNG to the PVNG via SCEAPI.

At the query is received by the PVNG and the private virtual network application resident not shown on the PVNG is invoked. Based on an internal translation or database lookup the prepaid application determines that the query was associated with an existing session.

At the private virtual network application generates an event record which contains the details of the call for example originating identifiers terminating identifiers call duration which may be used by either the private or public telecommunications network operator in order to apply a specific rate for the call. In an alternative manifestation of the service the PNG may generate the event record. In an alternative manifestation of the service the PNG or the PVNG could determine and record the rate for the call via a rating engine resident on either the PNG or PVNG . The PVNG formulates a response indicating the outcome of the query request and submits the response to the PNG via SCEAPI .

At the response is received by the PNG and the subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PNG is invoked. Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application recognizes that the response is associated with an existing session and forwards the query received to the originating SSP .

At the response is received by the originating SSP . The originating SSP recognizes that the response is associated with an earlier query and closes the session associated with the query.

Referring to and those skilled in the art will appreciate that the service creation environment provided by the PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEAPI and SCEE have provided for an innovative virtual private network offering which may not have otherwise been supported using the underlying network infrastructure.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the service creation environment provided by the PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEAPI and SCEE can be utilized for the purpose of applying capabilities and services for a group of subscribers. As an example of a service for a group of subscribers a call attendant function whereby calls are diverted to a live call attendant once a set of prescribed conditions have been met e.g. terminating number busy can be applied across a group of subscribers whose state and profile information is associated with a single record as stored within database .

Referring to the configuration of the PNG and PVNG in an example telecommunications system is illustrated in a block diagram for a private network pre paid service application of the present invention. The example telecommunications system is derived from the telecommunications systems illustrated in and and will be used to illustrate a private network service pre paid application of the present invention with reference to the message flow diagrams illustrated in and .

At mobile station submits a service request for the destination mobile station to its serving PBX via a radio link and base station . The service request contains the network address of the originating mobile station . The PBX receives the service request and recognizes based on an internal translation mapping or database lookup that additional call treatments may need to be applied for calls originated from the mobile station and formulates a query which is forwarded to the PVNG .

At the PVNG receives the query and invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PVNG . Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the originating mobile station is associated with a pre paid application which is resident on the PNG . The PVNG forwards the query to the PNG via SCEAPI .

At the PNG receives the query and invokes a pre paid application resident not shown on the PNG . The pre paid short message application on PNG determines the rate to be applied. Not shown are the message flows for an optional manifestation of the pre paid service where the PNG would accesses the HLR in order to determine the rate based on the terminating mobile station s current location. The pre paid application on the PNG checks to see if the originating mobile station has an account balance sufficiently above a minimum threshold. In this example this check is achieved by sending a decrement balance query to a prepaid subscriber account database resident not shown on the SCP . In an alternative manifestation of the service the prepaid subscriber account database could be resident in the PNG .

At the SCP checks the originating mobile station s balance and sends back a response which indicates the result of the SCP s action. For the purpose of this example the response will contain the originating mobile station s balance.

At the PNG receives the response from the SCP and determines whether the message should proceed to the terminating mobile station based on the content of the response. For the purpose of this message flow sequence it will be assumed that the originating mobile station has a sufficient balance. The PNG formulates a response indicating that the call may proceed and submits the response to the PVNG via SCEAPI.

At the PVNG receives the response from the PNG and invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PVNG. Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the response was associated with a previous query and formulates a response which will forward the instructions received from the PNG to the PBX . The content and format of the response may vary pursuant to the private network providers requirements including the capabilities supported by the PBX .

At the PBX invokes the procedures to establish a call to the terminating SSP . Not shown are the message flows which are used to establish connectivity via the circuit switched or packet based network. Not shown are the message flows which may be required in order to determine the serving SSP via an HLR in a mobile environment.

At a voice connection between the originating mobile station and the destination mobile station is established and voice communication takes place. During this call the prepaid application resident on the PNG maintains call timers to decrement the calling subscribers account in accordance with the billing rate of the call.

At the prepaid application resident on the PNG determines that the client s balance has expired. The prepaid application resident on the PNG formulates a query indicating that the call should be terminated. The query is forwarded to the PVNG via SCEAPI.

At the query is received by the PVNG and the subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PVNG is invoked and executed using SCEE.

Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application formulates a query which will forward the instructions received from the PNG to the PBX . The content and format of the query may vary pursuant to the private network providers requirements including the capabilities supported by the PBX .

At the PBX invokes the procedures to terminate the existing call to the terminating SSP . Not shown are the message flows which are used to terminate connectivity via the circuit switched or packet based network. The PBX formulates a query response which indicates that the call has been terminated and forwards the query response to the PVNG .

At the PVNG receives the query response and invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PVNG . Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the response was associated with a previous query and formulates a response which will forward the contents of the query response to the PNG via SCEAPI .

At the PNG receives the query response and invokes a pre paid application resident not shown on the PNG . Based on an internal translation or database lookup the prepaid application determines that the response was associated with a previous query. The prepaid application formulates a query to the SCP which will be used to decrement the balance by a suitable amount.

At the SCP receives the query and decrements the originating mobile station s balance and sends back a response which indicates the result of the SCP s action.

At the PNG receives the response and invokes a prepaid application resident on the PNG . Based on an internal translation or database lookup the prepaid application determines that the response was associated with a previous query and closes the session associated with the originating mobile station .

Referring to and those skilled in the art will appreciate that the service creation environment provided by the PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEAPI and SCEE have provided for an innovative pre paid service for mobile stations served by the private domain which may not have otherwise been supported using the underlying network infrastructure.

Referring to the configuration of the PNG PVNG and an additional PNG in an example telecommunications system is illustrated in a block diagram for a transcription service application of the present invention. The example telecommunications system is derived from the telecommunications systems illustrated in and and will be used to illustrate a virtual private network service application of the present invention with reference to the message flow diagrams illustrated in and .

At a mobile station submits a service request for the destination fixed station to its serving SSP via a radio link and base station . The SSP receives the service request and recognizes based on an internal translation mapping or database lookup that additional call treatments may need to be applied for calls originated from the mobile station or for calls destined to the fixed station and formulates a query which is forwarded to the PNG .

At the PNG receives the query and invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PNG . Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the originating mobile station is associated with an application which is resident on an second PNG . The PNG forwards the query to the second PNG via SCEAPI .

At the second PNG receives the query and invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the second PNG . Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the originating mobile station or the terminating fixed station is associated with a transcription service. Pursuant to the service logic associated with the transcription service the second PNG sends a response back to the PNG which contains a SCEAPI directive to route the call to the second PNG.

At the PNG receives the response from the second PNG and invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PNG . Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the response was associated with a previous query and formulates a response which will forward the instructions received from the second PNG to the SSP . The content and format of the response may vary pursuant to the telecommunication network provider s requirements including the capabilities supported by the SSP . For example the response message would vary as a function of whether the SSP supports IN or AIN compliant triggers.

At the SSP invokes the procedures to establish a call to the second PNG based on the destination address received in the response from the PNG . Not shown are the message flows which are used to establish connectivity via the circuit switched or packet based network. Upon receiving the call the second PNG invokes a subscriber profile application resident not shown on the PNG . Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application determines that the response was associated with a previous query and establishes a call to the fixed station . Not shown are the message flows which are used to establish connectivity via the circuit switched or packet based network. The message flows associated with establishing connectivity between the mobile station and fixed station may be used by the second PNG in order to invoke a speech to text transcription application not shown .

At a voice connection between the originating mobile station and the destination fixed station is established via the second PNG and voice communication takes place. During this call the transcription application resident on the second PNG transcribes the conversation via a speech to text application not shown which is invoked by the subscriber profile application upon receipt of an answer signal or message. The transcribed conversation is stored in file on a database which resides on the second PNG .

At the call is terminated by either the calling mobile station or the terminating fixed station . Not shown are the message flows which are used to terminate connectivity via the circuit switched or packet based network between the mobile station and the fixed station via the second PNG . The speech to text transcription application resident on the second PPG terminates the transcription process and informs the subscriber profile application resident not shown on the second PNG that the transcription process has been completed and the location and name of the transcription file. Based on an internal translation or database lookup the subscriber profile application formulates a message which will forward the transcription file to a PVNG via SCEAPI.

At the PVNG receives the SCEAPI directive and stores the file pursuant to the commands in the SCEAPI directive. The PVNG formulates and transmits an acknowledgement message to the second PNG via SCEAPI.

At the second PNG receives the acknowledgement message and terminates the session associated with the transcription service application. Not shown are any incremental messages which may be required to terminate any active sessions in either the second PNG or PNG .

Referring to and those skilled in the art will appreciate that the service creation environment provided by the PNG second PNG and PVNG in conjunction with SCEAPI have provided for an innovative transcription service for both fixed and mobile stations in the public domain which may not have otherwise been supported using the underlying network infrastructure.

While the foregoing describes what are considered to be preferred example embodiments of the invention it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the invention may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that it may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described. The claims are intended to cover all such modifications and variations which fall within the true scope of the invention.

