---

title: Content display and navigation interface
abstract: A user interface for navigating and viewing content is described. In one example, the apparatus includes display logic for displaying at least two content properties, wherein each of the content properties is associated with additional content (e.g., an application, service, media object, or combinations thereof). Further, the apparatus includes selection logic for displaying the content associated with the content properties in response to selections thereof, and the content associated with each content property is displayed in a common (or reusable) display space of the interface. As different content properties are selected, the content displayed within the display space is replaced (e.g., through animation) according to the associated content of the newly selected content properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08055444&OS=08055444&RS=08055444
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08055444
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060404
---
The present inventions relate generally to systems and methods for user interfaces and in one example to a content display and navigation interface operable within an animated browser interface.

The Internet and other networks interconnect computers and computing devices to allow for easy transport of data over network connections. Commonly computers and computing devices are organized using the client server model wherein network connections are established between some computers or computing devices that act as servers and some computers or computing devices that act as clients. Of course some computers or computing devices can act as servers and clients.

An example of a server is a web server and an example of a client is a web client such as a personal computer running a web browser program. Many different web clients have been developed and variations of web clients are being developed regularly. Merely by way of example a web client could be embodied in a desktop computer laptop computer handheld device cellular telephone wireless device electronic device with embedded web client functionality or the like. Generally all that is required of a device is a user interface and a network interface.

Generally a web client operates according to the interface to issue requests to web servers using well known or other suitable protocols. In response to requests received web servers return data responses. In a typical description of web client server interaction the HTTP protocol is assumed to be used wherein the web client issues a request directed at a particular web server address for a page represented by a URL in the request and a server responsive to the particular web server address responds with data that may be a page to be displayed or other data set. Generally regardless of the actual data being requested and returned the data returned is referred to as a web page.

A web client that is capable of presenting all or part of a web page in a user interface to a user and accepting user input wherein at least some of the user input can cause the web client to present different and custom web pages and are often referred to as a Web browser because of its common use by a user to navigate among web pages generally considered to be part of a Web of pages that reference other pages.

Web browsers are known and are in common use and often provide functionality in addition to presenting web pages and accepting user input related to presented web pages. For example web pages might include program elements that are executed by a web browser upon receipt of a web page including such program elements. One example of such program elements are JAVA applets.

Web pages also might include program elements that cause a web server to take an action. For example a web server might provide portal services wherein the web server collects information from various sources and upon request generates a portal page for a web client. An example of such a portal page is the main Yahoo page www.yahoo.com and personalized pages provided by My Yahoo my.yahoo.com . The latter provides for pages to be delivered to web clients that are customized based on user preferences stored e.g. at the server.

Customized web pages and varied layouts often provide a rich user experience but if the presentation of information and content is difficult to manage or too large to navigate the experience may be less favorable.

According to some aspects of the inventions provided herein systems and methods for navigating and viewing information on a device e.g. a computer personal computer mobile computer device and the like are provided.

In one aspect provided herein a content navigation interface apparatus for displaying content is described. In one example the apparatus includes display logic for displaying at least two content properties wherein each of the content properties is associated with content e.g. an application service media object or combinations thereof . Further the apparatus includes selection logic for displaying the content associated with the content properties in response to selections thereof and the content associated with each content property is displayed in a common or reusable display space of the interface.

In one example as different content properties are selected the content displayed within the display space is replaced or updated according to the associated content of the newly selected content properties. For example the selection logic may display first content in the display space in response to a selection of a first content property and thereafter the selection logic may display second content in place of the first content in response to a selection of a second content property. In some examples the selection logic may combine the first and second content in response to selections of the first and second content properties. Further the content properties and display space may animate or move within the interface as different content properties are selected.

In some example the interface may further include logic for accessing additional content e.g. to launch an application or service associated with the displayed content. The interface may further display content in two or more simultaneous levels of detail or sizes which may be user configurable.

In another aspect a method for displaying and viewing content is provided. In one example the method includes displaying a plurality of content properties and a display space wherein each content property is associated with content and displaying content associated with a selected content property in the display space in response to being selected. Further as different content properties are selected the content displayed within the display space is replaced according to the associated content of the newly selected content properties. Additionally the position of the content properties and or display space may be moved e.g. in a shutter like response within the interface in response to different selections of content properties.

According to another aspect a computer program product comprising program code for a user interface is provided. The computer program product may include program code operable for displaying at least two content properties each of the displayed content properties associated with content and displaying content associated with the content properties in a display space in response to a selection of one of the displayed content properties In one example the program code is further operable such that as different content properties are selected the content displayed within the display space is replaced according to the associated content of the newly selected content properties.

The various aspects and examples of the inventions are better understood upon consideration of the detailed description below in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the inventions. Descriptions of specific devices techniques and applications are provided only as examples. Various modifications to the examples described herein will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other examples and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the examples described herein and shown but is to be accorded the scope consistent with the claims.

In one aspect and example described herein a content navigation user interface or a content navigation interface element is provided which may be used for displaying and navigating content on or accessible via a user device. In one example the user interface displays a plurality of content properties also referred to as content channels where each of the content properties is associated with additional content such as a service application or content. A content property may include an icon text or other indicia associated with additional content. The interface further includes a common display space that displays content associated with the content properties in response to selection of one of the content properties. A user may sequentially select different content properties to view associated content in the display space. In other examples a user may select two or more of the content properties and view a combination of the content associated with the two content properties.

According to other aspects and examples the content may be viewed in varying levels of detail. For example a user may select from two or more levels of detail or sizes to view content. In an illustrative example a news content property or channel may include articles viewable at a first level including a headline a second level including the headline and the first 100 characters of the articles and a third level including the entire content of the articles. In this fashion a user may quickly navigate and access content at the level of detail desired for different types of content. Further a user may set various levels for various content types for future viewing.

Initially and with reference to an exemplary environment in which certain aspects and examples of the user interface and methods described may operate. Generally one or more clients may access a server . The server and clients may include any one of various types of computer devices having e.g. a processing unit a memory including a permanent storage device and a communication interface as well as other conventional computer components e.g. input device such as a keyboard and mouse output device such as display . For example client computer may include a desktop computer laptop computer mobile device such as a mobile phone web enabled phone smart phone television television set top box and the like.

Clients and server may communicate e.g. via suitable communication interfaces via a network such as the Internet. Clients and server may communicate in part or in whole via wireless or hardwired communications such as Ethernet IEEE 802.11b wireless or the like. Additionally communication between clients and server may include various servers such as a mail server mobile server and the like.

The server includes logic or is programmed to format data accessed from local or remote databases or other sources of data for presentation to users of clients preferably in the format discussed in detail below. The server may utilize various web data interface techniques such as Common Gateway Interface CGI protocol and associated applications or scripts Java servlets i.e. Java applications running on a web server or the like to present information and receive input from clients . The server although described herein in the singular may actually comprise plural computers devices associated backends and the like communicating wired and or wireless and cooperating to perform some or all of the functions described herein.

Server may include or communicate with account servers e.g. email servers mobile servers and the like. It is noted that an account server accessible by a client may include one or more of a personal email account on an email server e.g. Yahoo Mail a family photo album account on a photo server e.g. Yahoo Photos a Personal Information Management PIM account on a PIM server e.g. Yahoo Address book or Yahoo Notepad a music library account on a multimedia library server e.g. Yahoo Music combinations thereof and the like.

It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that not all the components described may be required and variations in the arrangement and type of the components may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventions.

Content properties may be associated with various services applications and content such as a web browser email service or program instant messenger service photos e.g. Yahoo Photos weather news media objects search maps local sports finance entertainment PIM applications and the like stored locally or remotely. Further media objects may include documents articles photos audio files video files and the like. Additionally the content may include selections or links to further content accessible by the interface and associated user device e.g. via Application Programming Interfaces APIs web pages and the like stored or accessed locally or remotely.

Display space generally includes a window or pane for displaying content associated with content properties when selected e.g. a top row of three content properties a middle display space and a bottom row of three content properties . In this example content property A is selected e.g. by a user or by default when the user interface is initiated and content associated therewith is shown in display space . As described in greater detail below as different content properties are selected display space is altered or updated to display content associated with the newly selected content property. Accordingly display space is referred to as common or reusable space e.g. the area is used by all of the content properties to display content or previews of content properties 

Content properties may be selected via an input device of a client such as a keyboard or mouse e.g. clicking or keying a particular content property . In one example individual content properties are selected by positioning a pointer e.g. an arrow or other graphic associated with a user device over the content properties and without requiring further input e.g. clicking a mouse. A user may therefore move a pointer over different properties to view previews and content associated with each.

A user may access content associated with content properties by selecting individual content properties e.g. by highlighting or otherwise selecting one of the content properties . In one example a content property is selected and content associated therewith displayed in display space when a pointer is over the content property . In other examples the selection is made when the pointer is over the preview content property and additional input is made e.g. hitting a key or mouse button . In other examples selections are made via drag and drop operations.

It should be understood that content properties may be highlighted or marked in various fashions e.g. bolded enlarged colored more vividly varying background or border or the like. In other examples an indicator such as an arrow or slider may be positioned adjacent a content property to indicate its status. In other examples a selected content property is not highlighted however content displayed in display space will make the selection of a particular content property apparent. Additionally the interface may cycle through additional content options.

Content properties may include any user identifiable indicia displayed within user interface . For example icons and or text may be used. Additionally the display of the content property e.g. including icons and or text may be user configurable or configured by the device application. For example user interface may be initially populated with default content properties and content property images such as an icon for mail instant messenger maps and the like. In other examples a user may add or configure icons e.g. by downloading from a server or uploading from another device . For example a user may add an icon and or text associated with a particular website application etc. Additionally the appearance of individual content properties may be changed or altered by the user e.g. to include a photo image emoticon text and the like.

In these examples content properties are illustrated horizontally above and below display space however other arrangements are possible. For example content properties may be displayed on one side of display space . In other examples similar vertical arrangements of content properties may be used on one or both sides of display space . Additionally in yet other examples content properties may be arranged both vertically and horizontally at corners of a user interface around a rectangular display space circularly around a circular display space and the like. Further any plurality of content properties displayed within user interface are contemplated.

Additionally an advertisement is illustrated which may be included with interface as shown embedded within display space or otherwise associated with user interface e.g. as a separate window . The selection of advertisement may be based on various factors including but not limited to user profile information user history information e.g. search or viewing history of a user the display of content properties in user interface a content property that has been selected combinations thereof and the like. Further it should be understood that advertisement may change over time e.g. in response to user inputs and manipulation of interface .

In one example user interface whether as a stand alone interface or an element of a larger interface or web browser page may be accessible by a user via an online account such as an email account. For example a user may login to an account server and user interface may be included in a home page or otherwise displayed in response to a user login. Further the user interface may include or be part of one or more widgets. In these and other fashions an individual user may access user interface from multiple client devices for example user interface may be served from a computer server to a user accessing the server from various devices such as a personal computer work computer mobile computer device such as a phone and the like. In other examples of course user interface may be included as an application program running on a computer device.

Further and in one example in response to a user selecting content property e.g. D as illustrated in the lower row of content properties i.e. D through F moves up e.g. in a shutter like response and adjacent to the upper row of content properties i.e. A through C . Further display space moves down to the lower portion of user interface . In one example the overall size of and in particular the height h of user interface remains unchanged. This may be advantageous for example if user interface is incorporated as an element within a larger display such as a browser window.

In other examples the upper row of content properties could move down and adjacent the lower row of content properties in a similar fashion. In yet other examples user interface may include a third row of content properties the content properties and display space moving similar to the row of content properties as described above to display associated content when selected.

In this illustrative example content property corresponds to an electronic mail program e.g. Yahoo mail Hotmail or the like . In response to selection of content property display space shows additional content e.g. a preview of new emails including the identity of the sender and the subject line. In other examples display space may include more content than display allows and include a scroll bar to view additional content that does not fit within display space .

A user may access individual emails directly through display space e.g. by selecting the displayed emails within display space . Selecting a displayed email may cause an access to the individual email within display space or new window or pane e.g. as shown in . Additionally the user may expand the content via launch expand selector or equivalent to access pane having additional functionality and content associated with the particular mail program.

In other illustrative examples shown in content property corresponds to a messenger service. When content property is selected display space may display the status of contacts e.g. if friends are online etc. conversations and so on. A user may select one of the displayed contacts to initiate an instant messaging session and or launch the messenger service. Additionally an expand option similar to expand launch may be displayed within display space for launching or opening the associated messenger program without selecting a particular displayed contact etc. .

Additionally other content properties corresponding to services or applications such as music weather news local maps etc. may display selected content in display space . The selected content properties may be user selected or based on user profiles user history user input e.g. bookmarks favorites etc. . Additionally in systems that may display varying levels of detail of content e.g. from very broad to very specific or from small to large the level of detail of content displayed in response to selections of content properties may be user selected as described via user input profile history and the like.

The assigned content properties are displayed within a user interface at . In one example the content properties are displayed adjacent a display space operable for displaying content associated with the content property. As described the content properties may be displayed in one of a variety of user selected varying sizes. Further a user may select different levels of detail for the display of the content properties.

Content and or functionality associated with a content property is displayed in the display space in response to a user selection at . The content displayed is generally of a greater level of detail than the level of detail of the content property. A user may select different content properties and reuse the display space to view different associated content therein. Further in response to some selections of the content properties the content properties may move or shift within the display.

Additional content and or functionality associated with the content property and displayed content may be accessed or viewed at . For example by selecting the content in the display space or otherwise selecting additional content and or functionality may become available either in the original display space or a new window or display. Additionally in some examples a user may select two or more content properties to be commonly displayed. The content associated therewith may be combined in various fashions including e.g. layering within a common window interleaving content or creating new content associated characteristics of each of the original content properties and associated content.

The various aspects and examples of the inventions can be implemented in any suitable form including hardware software firmware or any combination of these. Different aspects of the invention may be implemented at least partly as computer software or firmware running on one or more data processors and or digital signal processors. The elements and components of an embodiment of the invention may be physically functionally and logically implemented in any suitable way. Indeed the functionality may be implemented in a single unit in a plurality of units or as part of other functional units. As such the invention may be implemented in a single unit or may be physically and functionally distributed between different units and processors.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with some embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein. Rather the scope of the present invention is limited only by the claims. Additionally although a feature may appear to be described in connection with a particular embodiment one skilled in the art would recognize that various features of the described embodiments may be combined in accordance with the invention. Moreover aspects of the invention describe in connection with an embodiment may stand alone as an invention.

Moreover it will be appreciated that various modifications and alterations may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but is to be defined according to the claims.

