---

title: Mid-infrared optically pumped unstable resonator laser
abstract: A high-powered mid-IR antimonide-based unstable resonator semiconductor laser that is optically pumped. One Fabry-Perot facet is a mechanically polished cylindrical mirror that extends well into the GaSb substrate. The waveguide is designed to weakly confine the transverse optical mode, and the optical pump stripe width can be varied to optimize the cavity width for high brightness operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07469002&OS=07469002&RS=07469002
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07469002
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060828
---
The conditions under which this invention was made are such as to entitle the Government of the United States under paragraph I a of Executive Order 10096 as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force to the entire right title and interest therein including foreign rights.

The invention relates generally to high power mid IR optically pumped unstable resonator lasers and in particular to a means to produce a high power output while maintaining a near diffraction limited beam.

High power optically pumped mid IR lasers have been demonstrated with peak powers in the 5 to 15 W range CW powers in excess of 2 W and lasing wavelengths in the 2 to 10 micron region. However these broad area lasers typically display degraded beam quality as the pump intensity is increased they may go from 2 3 times diffraction limited near threshold to 8 15 times diffraction limited at 30 times threshold. This limits the devices applicability since it becomes difficult to couple the radiation into a small numerical aperture fiber or to focus the radiation in the far field. There are a large number of applications that would directly benefit from high power mid IR output in a nearly diffraction limited beam. These applications include infrared countermeasures free space optical communication remote sensing laser marking and various medical applications.

A number of approaches have been utilized in near IR semiconductor diode lasers electrically pumped lasers to achieve high power operation with diffraction limited output. These include tapered amplifiers angled injection into traveling wave or reflective wave amplifiers coupled narrow stripe lasers and various unstable resonator UR geometries. The UR laser concept is best understood by comparing it to the conventional Fabry Perot FP laser. The conventional semiconductor laser uses an FP cavity defined by two parallel mirrors. The lasing mode undergoes multiple reflections at the cavity mirrors and the mode is directly counter propagated. In contrast the UR laser is characterized by counter propagating diverging cylindrical waves diverging from fixed virtual source points. By avoiding direct counter propagation UR s suppress filamentation and maintain excellent beam quality with all the radiation diverging from fixed high brightness virtual source points. Consequently the UR laser is a high brightness source since near diffraction limited beam quality can be preserved even with broad laser cavities and under conditions of high current injection or optical pumping.

In one approach to the UR design for electrically injected semiconductor lasers as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 179 568 the UR cavity was formed with curved facets for the end mirrors. However a high precision manufacturing process such as ion beam milling was required to maintain losses at the mirrors within acceptable limits. The required high precision does not permit such devices to be formed in quantity and with reasonable reproducibility.

In another approach a train of weak negative lenses is grown into the structure and causes the main mode to expand laterally as it propagates. However for large changes in the index of refraction each lens will act as a reflecting surface and will introduce further losses in the cavity. Paxton et. al. Semiconductor Laser with Regrown Lens Train Unstable Resonator Theory and Design 29 IEEE J. Quant. Electron. No. 11 pp 2784 2792 1993 

In another approach to the UR design for electrically injected semiconductor lasers as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 438 585 an anti guide region is optically coupled to the active region of the laser. The anti guide region has a lateral variation in the effective index of refraction that forms a diverging medium that causes higher order modes to experience higher losses in the resonant cavity. However the main mode suffers higher losses as well and the growth of this structure requires multiple epitaxial growth steps thereby complicating the fabrication process.

A high brightness optically pumped mid infrared semiconductor laser is formed by the mechanical polishing of a cylindrical mirror directly on one of the facets of a mid infrared Fabry Perot laser cavity. The presence of the cylindrical mirror forces the counter propagating cylindrical optical modes to diverge from fixed virtual source points and reduces the tendency of the cavity to self focus or form optical filaments. These features improve the beam quality of the laser. Furthermore the cavity width or gain volume can be significantly increased thereby significantly increasing the extractable power while still maintaining a nearly diffraction limited beam.

The process begins by fabricating a Fabry Perot FP laser. The FP laser is a mid infrared quantum well laser. A representative quantum well laser is shown in . In brief the different layers of the structure are grown in a molecular beam epitaxial MBE chamber on a GaSb substrate . The laser active region light emitting region is deposited on the substrate followed by a thicker layer of GaSb . A final protective cap layer is grown on top.

A semiconductor laser chip of length L is cleaved out of the host wafer thereby forming a FP laser cavity. The optically pumped unstable resonator OPUR is then formed by mechanically polishing a cylindrical mirror on one end of the FP laser.

In the mechanical polishing process the mirror is formed by a procedure in which the chip is first sandwiched between two metal blocks. On one side of the blocks cylindrical templates have previously been milled conforming to the correct cylindrical figure. When the antimonide based chip is sandwiched between them properly aligned and mechanically polished a high quality cylinder is formed with the desired radius of curvature and minimal facet damage. A typical top down image of the UR laser is shown in with an exaggerated cylindrical curvature . The mirror sag is actually about 50 microns across the 2 mm wide chip in this example. An advantage of optical pumping is the ability to incorporate a waveguide design in which the transverse optical mode is weakly confined. This allows the transverse mode to extend far beyond the active region i.e. the transverse mode extends well into the GaSb substrate reaching approximately 10 m below the surface of the epilayers. Consequently the cylindrical mirror must extend down at least this far into the substrate. This can readily be accomplished using the mechanical polishing technique described. The polishing process is highly robust such that there is no major facet damage and only a small drop 5 15 in the slope efficiency is observed in the operation of the OPUR as compared to the Fabry Perot as can be seen in .

A majority of this drop in power is due to the extra loss of the cavity due to geometric magnification of the radiation in the OPUR cavity. This resonator magnification M is conveniently quantified as 

Regenerative re imaging of the circulating radiation is the critical mechanism leading to high brightness from the virtual source points. These virtual source points shown as V and V in are located at a distance V L LR from the flat facet. The left virtual source V is at an object distance V L from the diverging mirror with focal length R 2 . Upon reflection from the curved facet the radiation forms a virtual image V at a distance V L to the right of the curved facet.

In actual operation the radiation is outcoupled from the flat facet side of the device so that the virtual waist of the lateral mode is located behind the output facet at a refractively reduced distance D V n in which the index of refraction is given by n 3.82. For a typical device geometry with L 3500 m and R 10000 m this reduced distance is inside the device at approximately 1800 m from the flat facet. In addition to the high brightness generated by the regenerative re imaging of the virtual source points the natural divergence of the propagating mode tends to mitigate self focusing filamentation leading to further brightness improvements.

One advantage of this embodiment of a mid IR antimonide based optically pumped unstable resonator OPUR laser is the ease with which it is manufactured. A simple yet robust mechanical polishing procedure is used to manufacture a high quality cylindrical mirror with the correct radius of curvature. Further the process lends itself to batch processing in which several chips are stacked and polished at the same time. This manufacturing method is easily scaled to permit volume production. The ease of manufacturing the OPUR may be contrasted with ion beam milling and photolithographic methods which have previously been used to manufacture unstable resonators. The requirement for producing optical quality curved mirrors places severe demands on the photolithography or ion beam milling process.

Another advantage of the OPUR is that it constitutes a true high brightness source for broad area optically pumped mid IR lasers i.e. it retains near diffraction limited output even under the highest pump power conditions. There is no analogy of such a high brightness semiconductor source in the mid IR. A third advantage of the OPUR involves the incorporation of a dilute waveguide structure transverse optical mode is weakly confined with the unstable resonator concept. The combination of a dilute waveguide structure with an unstable resonator design is extremely powerful since both tend to mitigate against optical filamentation and beam break up. Filamentation is a major mechanism leading to severely degraded beam quality and loss of brightness. Combining a dilute waveguide design with a UR in an electrically injected semiconductor laser is problematical since the series resistance would increase significantly leading to higher laser thresholds and significant heating.

Furthermore the cavity width of an OPUR is not fixed as it is in electrically pumped devices. Due to the nature of optical pumping the lateral pump stripe width in the OPUR can be varied continuously in real time. The cavity width defined by the optical pumping can be varied over a wide range from 100 m out to greater than 1000 m. This allows maximal flexibility when optimizing the OPUR cavity for high brightness operation. The pump stripe width may be adjusted to significantly reduce heating effects and thermal ducting which tend to degrade beam quality.

