---

title: Constructing regular-expression dictionary for textual analysis
abstract: A regular-expression dictionary, as opposed to an exact-match dictionary, is constructed for utilization within computerized textual analysis. One or more data types are defined for entries within the regular-expression dictionary, within a markup-language schema. A structure in the markup-language schema is provided that encompasses the data types of the entries within the regular-expression dictionary. For each of a number of entries of the regular-expression dictionary, a mapping methodology is defined between a source definition of the entry to the structure and the data types within the markup-language schema. Furthermore, a definition of the entry is mapped to the data types within the structure of the markup-language schema, using the mapping methodology defined. The markup language may be eXtensible Markup Language (XML), or another type of markup language.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07684976&OS=07684976&RS=07684976
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07684976
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060513
---
The present invention relates generally to dictionaries for use in textual analysis and more particularly to constructing regular expression dictionaries for use in textual analysis.

Computerized textual analysis is commonly performed on computerized data representing text. Such textual analysis includes information retrieval and information extraction among other types of textual analysis. Within computerized textual analysis dictionaries are needed to obtain grammar and definitional information regarding words and phrases included in the text.

One type of dictionary is commonly known as an exact match dictionary. Words and phrases within text are exactly matched on a character by character basis to entries within the exact match dictionary. In response information is provided regarding these words and phrases such as their grammar and their definitions. Such exact match dictionaries are commonly implemented in trie structures which are ordered tree data structures similar to finite state automaton structures common hash maps and so on.

Exact match dictionaries are commonly employed within computerized textual analysis. Examples include those available within the LanguageWare software or platform available from International Business Machines Inc. of Armonk N.Y. Another example is the dictionary employed within the ChaSen Japanese language morphological textual analysis system available from the Nara Institute of Science and Technology located in the Takayama District in the Nara Prefecture of Kansai Science City and which maintains an Internet web site at http www.naistjp index en.html. Both of these types of exact match dictionaries can be used within computerized textual analysis.

Another type of dictionary is commonly known as a regular expression dictionary. Rather than exactly matching words and phrases within text as in an exact match dictionary a regular expression dictionary employs strings that describe or match a set of strings according to certain syntax rules. For instance a date may be referenced in a variety of different formats such as Jan. 1 1970 1 Jan. 1970 Jan. 1 1970 Jan. 1 1970 and so on and therefore resists exact matching as in an exact match dictionary. Regular expression dictionaries are thus employed where a regular expression exists but which can be described in a variety of different notations. Such regular expressions include dates currency amounts telephone numbers Internet universal resource identifiers URI s such as universal resource locators URL s and chemical symbols.

Regular expression dictionaries can be implemented by using existing regular expression libraries. Examples of regular expression libraries include the Java programming language regular expression matching library available from Sun Microsystems Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. and which maintains a web site at http java.sun.com. Another example is the International Components for Unicode for Java ICU4J programming language library available from International Business Machines Inc. However these and other regular expression libraries cannot be employed for or within computerized textual analysis by themselves.

Exact match dictionaries can be employed for utilization within computerized textual analysis for a variety of different reasons. They provide a framework that allows for the construction and operation of a programming language library such as a Java programming language library. For instance they provide for the binding to Java programming language classes and allow entries to be added to and deleted from the dictionaries via appropriate application programming interfaces API s . They further provide for resource management mechanisms including loading and unloading of the dictionaries.

By comparison existing regular expression libraries such as the libraries noted above cannot be employed for utilization within computerized textual analysis by themselves because they lack these capabilities that are found within exact match dictionaries. As a result computerized textual analysis suffers because it cannot retrieve information regarding regular expressions commonly found within text. For this and other reasons therefore there is a need for the present invention.

The present invention relates to a regular expression dictionary for use within computerized textual analysis. A computer implemented method of one embodiment of the invention constructs a regular expression dictionary as opposed to an exact match dictionary for utilization within such textual analysis. One or more data types are defined for entries within the regular expression dictionary within a markup language schema. A structure in the markup language schema is provided that encompasses the data types of the entries within the regular expression dictionary. For each of a number of entries of the regular expression dictionary a mapping methodology is defined between a source definition of the entry to the structure and the data types within the markup language schema. Furthermore a definition of the entry is mapped to the data types within the structure of the markup language schema using the mapping methodology defined.

A computerized system of an embodiment of the invention includes a tangible computer readable medium such as a recordable data storage medium which stores data representing a regular expression dictionary as opposed to an exact match dictionary. The computerized system also includes a textual analysis component to analyze textual data by using at least the regular expression dictionary. An article of manufacture of an embodiment of the invention includes a tangible computer readable medium and means in the medium. The means is for effecting or effectuating a regular expression dictionary as opposed to an exact match dictionary for utilization in computerized textual analysis.

Embodiments of the invention provide for advantages over the prior art. Whereas in the prior art only an exact match dictionary can be employed within computerized textual analysis within the invention a regular expression dictionary can be employed in addition to or in lieu of an exact match dictionary within such textual analysis. As a result textual analysis is more accurate more robust and more effective as compared to as in the prior art. Still other advantages aspects and embodiments of the invention will become apparent by reading the detailed description that follows and by referring to the accompanying drawings.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

A regular expression dictionary is different than an exact match dictionary. That is rather than exactly matching words and phrases within text as in an exact match dictionary a regular expression dictionary employs strings that describe or match a set of strings according to certain syntax rules. For instance a date may be referenced in a variety of different formats such as January 1 1970 1 Jan. 1970 1 1 1970 1 1 70 and so on and therefore resists exact matching as in an exact match dictionary. Regular expression dictionaries are thus employed where a regular expression exists but which can be described in a variety of different notations. Such regular expressions include dates currency amounts telephone numbers Internet universal resource identifiers URI s such as universal resource locators URL s and chemical symbols.

The method defines data types for entries within the regular expression dictionary to be constructed within a markup language schema . The markup language may be extensible Markup Language XML or another type of markup language. Data types may include the part of speech of a given regular expression a definition of a given regular expression a synonym or antonym of a given regular expression and so on. The data types are defined in the markup language schema in the sense that particular tags are employed to denote the data types. Examples of markup language schema include XML schema.

Next a structure within the markup language schema is provided that encompasses the data types for the entries within the regular expression dictionary .

The structure specifies how the data types are particularly ordered. For example the structure may be as follows for a given entry 

Once the data types and the structure have been defined and provided within the markup language schema entries can be added to the regular expression dictionary using these data types and this structure . For each such entry therefore a mapping methodology is defined between a source definition of the entry to the structure and the data types within the markup language schema . For example for an example term such as solution the following source definition may be provided 

Thereafter the specific definition for the entry in question can then be mapped to the data types within the structure of the markup language schema using the mapping methodology that has been defined . Thus for the example of the previous paragraph the source definition is mapped as follows 

The entry as has been mapped to the data types within the structure of the markup language schema can then be bound to a class of an object oriented programming language . For example the object oriented programming language may be the Java programming language. Binding the entry to a class within such an object oriented programming language allows for the entry as has been mapped to the data types within the structure of the markup language schema to be employed by textual analysis programs written in that programming language.

Once all the entries within the regular expression dictionary have been processed in part of the method the class to which each entry has been bound can be compiled to construct a binary version of the regular expression dictionary . Alternatively however compiling may not be performed in which case the regular expression dictionary is simply parsed or interpreted. Ultimately computerized textual analysis is performed such as by using the binary version of the regular expression dictionary .

Computerized textual analysis can be performed using the regular expression dictionary constructed in accordance with the method of for at least the following reasons. First the various data types of the content of the regular expression dictionary are defined and a structure encompassing these data types is provided. For instance as has been described the data types and the structure are defined and provided within a markup language schema such as an XML schema. Second binding the definitions of an object oriented programming language class allows them to be accessed by computer programs written in such a programming language. Other aspects that render the regular expression dictionary amenable to utilization for computerized textual analysis are described later in the detailed description.

In the data types of the markup language schema include where the structure of the markup language schema corresponds to the date itself. Representative date regular expressions such as 2005 12 31 and Dec. 31 2005 can thus be defined as follows 

In the data types of the markup language schema include and where the structure of the markup language schema corresponds to the currency itself. Representative currency regular expressions such as 12000 and 10000 can thus be defined as follows 

In the data types of the markup language schema include where the structure of the markup language schema corresponds to the organic compound itself. Representative regular expressions for organic compound names such as docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid can thus be defined as follows 

Finally in the data types of the markup language schema include and where the structure of the markup language schema corresponds to the product itself. Representative regular expressions for product name references such as IBM eServer zSeries 990 IBM zSeries 990 and zSeries 990 can thus be defined as follows 

The regular expression dictionary constructed in accordance with the method of examples of entries of which have been described in relation to B C D and E can be employed within textual analysis. Where a regular expression is found within text that corresponds to one of the entries themselves the various data types can be employed to provide meaning to the entry found within the text. For instance with respect to the text Lotus Domino Enterprise Server it can be determined that the brand is Lotus the product name is Domino and so on. Where the parts of text are being analyzed a regular expression dictionary annotates each of them by the data provided by submatch tags such as has been described in the above XML examples. For instance the text may be Domino Enterprise Server and the various parts Domino and Enterprise Server are provided meanings by the regular expression dictionary.

The computer readable medium is a tangible medium such as a recordable data storage medium like a hard disk drive a semiconductor memory and so on. The regular expression dictionary is as opposed to an exact match dictionary as has been described and exposes a number of application programming interfaces API s for access by the textual analysis component . The API s for instance allow the component to match strings within textual data to the regular expression dictionary to receive definitions and other information regarding these strings. The API s may further provide for adding and deleting entries within the regular expression dictionary .

The API s along with other aspects of the regular expression dictionary such as the ability to be managed as a resource such as loading and unloading thereof due to the dictionary having had its definitions bound to an object oriented programming language class and or having been compiled into a binary version thereof are capabilities allowing the dictionary to be used for textual analysis. That is these capabilities along with the others that have been mentioned enable the regular expression dictionary of embodiments of the invention to be employed for textual analysis such as by the textual analysis component . This is advantageous as in the prior art regular expression dictionaries cannot be employed for textual analysis.

The textual analysis component may be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The component analyzes the textual data by using at least the regular expression dictionary and outputs this analysis for review by a user for instance. The component may further use other dictionaries such as an exact match dictionary as in the prior art but such additional dictionaries are not depicted in for illustrative convenience.

It is noted that although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This application is thus intended to cover any adaptations or variations of embodiments of the present invention. Therefore it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and equivalents thereof.

