---

title: Nitrogen enriched combustion of a natural gas internal combustion engine to reduce NOemissions
abstract: A method and system for reducing nitrous oxide emissions from an internal combustion engine. An input gas stream of natural gas includes a nitrogen gas enrichment which reduces nitrous oxide emissions. In addition ignition timing for gas combustion is advanced to improve FCE while maintaining lower nitrous oxide emissions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07455046&OS=07455046&RS=07455046
owner: U Chicago Argonne LLC
number: 07455046
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060609
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Application 60 712 543 filed Aug. 30 2005 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government has certain rights in the invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Department of Energy and the University of Chicago operating Argonne National Laboratory.

The present invention is related generally to reduction of nitrous oxide NO emissions from internal combustion engines. More particularly the invention is related to reduction of NOemissions from natural gas powered internal combustion engines.

Stationary natural gas engines are currently used for a variety of industrial applications such as for electrical power generation and for oil field pumping applications. These large bore engines up to 20 cylinders and up to 20 MW in capacity are typically operated around the clock. While overall efficiency and reliability are of primary importance NOemissions are becoming a major concern with impending stricter EPA and state emissions regulations and laws. To overcome this problem some manufacturers have resorted to lean burn combustion or exhaust gas recirculation EGR . Lean burn natural gas engines operate with a higher than average air fuel ratio of 22 1 rather that 17 1 which is normal. The advantage is that lean burn engines operate at a lower combustion temperature which is a major parameter for reducing NOcompared to stoichiometric or rich burn engines. Lean burn operation also decreases specific fuel consumption and pollutant emissions including CO emissions. However the drawbacks include the loss of specific power and misfire at very lean operating conditions which result in high hydrocarbon HC emissions. NOx reduction using EGR is also not usually a desirable solution because it degrades engine reliability and increases maintenance.

Nitrogen injection into intake air for NOreduction in diesel engines is generally known in the industry and has been the subject of research efforts see for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 649 517 U.S. Pat. No. 6 055 808 WO 00031386A1 and WO 09967508A1 . In a diesel engine liquid fuel is sprayed into the combustion chamber after the piston compresses intake air to very high pressures and temperatures. When the fuel is injected into the combustion chamber at a desired injection timing the fuel vaporizes and a flame front develops on the outer periphery of the spray where the local equivalence ratio close to 1.0 is established. However this diffusion limited flame front moves to the remainder of the cylinder rather quickly as the ensuing fuel from the injector vaporizes and mixes with the in cylinder air charge.

In a spark ignited SI natural gas engine a spark is generated after the incoming natural gas air homogenous mixture is compressed significantly. A flame front develops around the spark and progressively moves outward burning the remainder of the mixture. The speed of the flame front is determined by mixture properties such as pressure temperature and excess air ratio . Consequently there are important differences between diesel engines and natural gas engines which require a different approach than in conventional diesel engine practices.

As mentioned above current industry practice for natural gas SI low NOengines is to operate the engine with high excess air or relatively lean. This reduces the NO but at the expense of lowered power production and increased HC emissions. This effect is due to the quenching that high excess air provides in the homogenous charged engine. In contrast to what has been previously proposed introducing additional diluent such as N into a low NO lean burn natural gas engine aggravates the quenching that is already occurring with the result that unacceptable HC emissions fuel efficiency and potentially misfire may occur.

Similarly diesel engines operate with high excess air. Unlike the homogenously charged natural gas engine the area in which the combustion reactions occur is relatively small as discussed above allowing additional diluent to be introduced with significant NOreduction effect but at the price of fuel efficiency. Also additional diluent N for example must be introduced in relatively large quantities given the high degree of excess air in the diesel engine.

Tests confirm the above reasoning with a small 2 nitrogen enrichment to the intake air of a stoic burn natural gas engine lowered NOproduction by approximately 70 . Similarly in the case of a diesel engine 2 enrichment lowered NOby 60 however the associated fuel penalty was significant as high as 5 .

Some of the additional combustion concepts currently studied are Homogeneous Charge Compression Ignition HCCI pilot ignited natural gas engines and the previously described spark ignited natural gas engines. Each group has its advantages and limitations. HCCI engines are limited by poor ignition and combustion control at high loads while promising relatively low emissions. Pilot ignited natural gas engines utilize a pilot fuel usually diesel to initiate combustion. These engines take advantage of the high compression ratios of compression ignition CI engines and hence attain fairly higher fuel conversion efficiencies. However these engines need a major hardware change and thus large capital investment for their functionality and thus these modalities suffer from substantial disadvantages as well.

Rather than operate a natural gas engine in any of the above recited problematic modes this invention presents an advantageous combination of operating parameters. Specifically in a most preferred embodiment this invention involves operating a natural gas engine in near stoichiometric stoic mode with the introduction of a modest 50 lower than the diesel requirements amount of Ndiluent into the engine and or a revised ignition timing strategy part or all of which result in an optimal combination of specific power fuel economy reduced hydrocarbon HC and NOemissions. Additionally this combination requires substantially lower Nquantities which reduces associated equipment size and improved economics. The result is that the NOreduction is more pronounced in the stoic burn engine approach 1.0 where lambda is defined as the ratio of actual air to fuel ratio and stoichiometric air to fuel ratio rather than the lean burn engines 1.42 . In stoic burn natural gas engines the air flow rate required per kW output is 4 to 5 times less than a similar value for a typical diesel. This particular factor makes the use of air separation membranes for stoic burn natural gas engines very attractive and practical. More importantly NOcan be lowered by 70 with a combination of ignition advance and 2 nitrogen enrichment a value that can be easily achieved using conventional air separation membranes very effectively. Air separation membranes selectively permeate Othrough thousands of fibers coated with a polymeric material hence producing O rich and N rich streams.

The effect of spark or ignition timing along with nitrogen enrichment is also important and advancing the ignition timing from conventional values has more advantages than retarding the same. A 68 reduction in NOand a 0.8 drop in fuel conversion efficiency FCE were observed at 30 ATDC ignition timing. However the maximum ignition timing advance with stable engine operation was limited to 40 ATDC to avoid engine misfire at higher concentrations of nitrogen rich air and poor FCE from overly retarded spark timing.

Various aspects features and advantages of the invention are described hereinafter and these and other improvements will be described in more detail below including the drawings as described in the following section.

Investigation of alternative fuels and methods of operation is essential in view of the increasingly stringent emissions regulations and laws the depleting fuel resources and the need for freedom from fuel dependence on foreign countries. In accordance with the preferred form of the invention nitrogen enrichment using an air separation membrane is an advantageous strategy for NOreduction because engine reliability unlike EGR is not compromised. Oxygen rich and nitrogen rich streams are produced by passing air through a nonporous polymeric membrane. Nitrogen enriched air reduces in cylinder combustion temperatures which reduces NOformation. Implementation of this strategy and optimizing the operating conditions for the engine configuration will simultaneously reduce emissions and improve performance.

The preferred embodiment of the invention involves a combination of controlling nitrogen enriched air along with modifying the spark or ignition timing to improve engine performance and emissions. An experimental system illustrated in was used to prove out the general concept of the invention. The system includes a gas generator engine such as a single cylinder Kohler natural gas generator 6000 Pro operating at 2700 rpm. In establishing this combination of features the single cylinder Kohler natural gas generator engine was used to investigate nitrogen enriched combustion and the effect of ignition timing on its performance and emissions characteristics. The system details are included in Table 1.

A natural gas conversion kit Type 3 for Kohler M12 generator supplied by US Carburetion Inc was installed to operate the system generator engine with natural gas from tank . The kit consists of a regulator and a load block . The regulator supplies fuel according to the demand of the generator engine via the load block which in turn controls the amount of gas flow into the generator . The vacuum line from the carburetor to the natural gas regulator triggers the gas flow.

Compressed methane 98 at 2500 psig was used with two stage regulation to acquire the required intake pressure of the natural gas regulator. The primary regulator steps down the gas pressure to about 15 psig while the secondary regulator further reduces the pressure to 10 14 inches of water which is a requirement for the natural gas regulator . The secondary regulator can handle a maximum pressure of 250 psig and hence the outlet pressure from the primary regulator was below the maximum limit. Nfrom tank was regulated to a pressure between 15 40 psig and introduced into an intake air tank . It was controlled by a needle valve as shown in to achieve the desired flow rate. Methane was introduced into the intake manifold downstream of the intake air tank where it was fumigated with air and Nvia valves and before entering the generator engine . Sierra mass flow meters and were used to measure the flow rates of methane nitrogen and air. Exhaust gases were processed through exhaust surge tank with venting stream and other processed material input to a Pierbrug emission bench .

The load on the generator engine was applied using the 10 kW Simplex load bank . It has a number of resistors rated at 500 1000 and 2000 watts. Using toggle switches a combination of different resistors can be coupled to apply the required load. High speed in cylinder pressure was measured using a Kistler 6013B pressure transducer which was plugged into a specially drilled hole in the cylinder head. The pressure signal was phased with respect to crank angle using an optical shaft encoder BEI which was coupled to the engine crankshaft. The transducer was connected to a data acquisition system Win600 to do combustion analysis via charge amplifier Kistler which converts the charge signal to a voltage signal. A new CD200 ignition module supplied by Altronic Inc. was mounted on the test stand to vary ignition timing with respect to top dead center TDC of the generator engine . The maximum operating range was 48 Crank Angle Degrees CAD .

Engine out emissions were measured using an integrated assembly of analyzers Pierburg 2000 emissions bench controlled by a computer not shown . Hydrocarbons were measured using a heated flame ionization detector HFID while a chemiluminescent detector was used for NOmeasurement. Oxygen concentration was measured with a paramagnetic analyzer and CO and COwere measured using infrared analyzers.

On the other hand NOreduction for higher loads was very aggressive which amounts to 88 for 50 slpm Nflow rate which is equivalent to 81.8 of Nin intake air and 70 for 40 slpm Nflow rate which is equivalent to 81.16 of the same. Nenrichment was limited to 50 slpm at full load 4 kW due to engine misfire and poor operating conditions which explains the abnormal rise in FCE at that point. It was observed that Nenrichment 0 50 slpm had moderate 35 reduction at 2 kW or no effect 1 kW on NOreduction at lower load conditions. However unburned hydrocarbons increased significantly at low loads and for higher nitrogen enrichment conditions. At low load 1 kW the unburned hydrocarbons were higher compared to other loading conditions due to combustion inefficiency and poor throttle control.

Nenrichment delays the 10 burn rate considerably which is often referred to as the flame development angle or sometimes Ignition Delay. The difference in the crank angle of MFB at the extreme conditions 79.05 and 81.16 of Nin intake air increases from 6.5 CAD at 10 to 20 CAD at 90 . This behavior implies that Nenrichment results in lower burning rates and longer combustion duration. The lower burning rates are attributed to the slower flame development and propagation speeds caused by Nenriched air. Therefore it was understood that the lower heat release rates longer combustion duration and the shift of the phasing of heat release rates contribute to the drop in FCE and NOemissions.

Ignition or spark timing is an important variable in optimizing engine performance. Conventional NOreduction strategies in internal combustion engines utilize retarded ignition timings with a penalty in FCE. Ignition timing IT was fixed at 20 ATDC in the previous discussion. The preferred operating range of the ignition system is set forth herein and highlights the effect of ignition timing on engine performance. show FCE engine speed and specific emissions as a function of ignition timing for full load condition with no Nenrichment. The timing sweep ranged from TDC to 48 ATDC maximum range of the ignition system . Clearly FCE and engine speed increased from 0 to 30 ATDC but decreased by further advancing the ignition timing.

NOemissions increased consistently with advanced ignition timings. Unburned hydrocarbons on the other hand were the maximum at TDC timing due to engine misfire and poor ignitability conditions and decreased considerably with advanced ignition timings up to 30 ATDC. However the trend changed for 40 and 48 ATDC timings with a slight increase of the same. It was therefore understood that advancing the ignition timing promotes FCE but with increased NOemissions. The timing sweep showed that the engine of the generator operates with high stability at 30 and 40 ATDC. Ignition at TDC was observed to be the worst timing with frequent engine misfire and unacceptable engine speeds. On the other end of the spectrum ignition timing at 48 ATDC also resulted in lower FCE due to considerable drop in engine speed. This is due to the release of fuel chemical energy very early in the engine cycle during the compression stroke rather than the expansion stroke. This is also referred to as a shift from the MBT maximum brake torque timing which opposes the momentum of the piston and hence reduces engine speed.

The flame is initiated at the spark plug and propagates through the combustion chamber. Since this test engine was originally designed for gasoline higher ignitability operation the compression ratio is not optimized for natural gas fueling condition. It was therefore believed that higher compression ratios would help counter poor engine performance at advanced ignition timings. However this could lead to engine knock and hence a judicious choice of both ignition timing and compression ratio is appropriate.

Engine speed displayed similar trends with change in ignition timing and Nenrichment. FCE was the highest 21.4 at 30 ATDC. It was found that the rate of rise in FCE with an ignition timing change from 20 to 30 ATDC was greater with Nenrichment than normal air. This behavior promotes the importance of advanced ignition timing with Nenrichment. However advanced ignition timings produce consistently increased NOnumbers due to higher cylinder gas temperatures as mentioned earlier. With the combination of Nenrichment and advanced ignition timings NOemissions decrease significantly. Unburned hydrocarbons with normal air 79.05 N were less than 0.5 g kW hr for most of the ignition timings except at TDC extreme operating condition . However with Nenrichment it was found that advanced timings produce significantly more unburned hydrocarbons due to Odepletion and combustion inefficiency coupled with poor flame development and propagation speeds. Retarded ignition timing also resulted in higher unburned hydrocarbons due to occasional engine misfire and partial burn conditions.

The single cylinder spark ignited gasoline engine of the generator engine was modified to operate with natural gas. The effect of Nenrichment and ignition timing was analyzed and below are listed some of the advantageous results which illustrate some features of the invention. In general it was determined that Nenrichment in stoic natural gas engines is far more practical and advantageous than diesel engines due to the lower air flow rates required to achieve similar NOreduction.

It should be understood that various changes and modifications referred to in the embodiment described herein would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

