---

title: Control mechanisms for mobile devices
abstract: A control mechanism for a mobile communication device includes a first mode element, a second mode element and a third mode element. Each mode element corresponds to a distinct operational mode associated with a particular function of the mobile communication device. A physical switch mechanism, which has a first physical positional state corresponding to the first mode element, a second physical positional state corresponding to the second mode element, and a third physical positional state corresponding to the third mode element, is movable between each physical positional state to select an operational mode and to enable the mode element corresponding to the selected operational mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08064886&OS=08064886&RS=08064886
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08064886
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060214
---
This patent application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 977 871 filed Oct. 14 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 007 239 titled Method and Apparatus for Accessing a Contacts Database and Telephone Services which is a continuation in part of the U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 668 123 filed Sep. 21 2000 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Organizing Addressing Elements now U.S. Pat. No. 6 781 575 and a continuation in part of the U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 374 095 filed Aug. 12 1999 titled Mobile Computer System Designed for Wireless Communication Expansion now U.S. Pat. No. 6 516 202 the contents of each herein being incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to the field of mobile computer systems and more particularly to handheld computer system that includes a configuration for a wireless data and voice communications.

Handheld information organization and communications devices are becoming increasingly popular for both business users and more general users. For example handheld systems such as a personal digital assistant PDA offered by Palm Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. or Hewlett Packard Palo Alto Calif. have found widespread acceptance amongst people for the purpose of organizing their calendars and storing personal contact information. Typically these PDAs contain Personal Information Management PIM applications such as an address book a calendar application a memo application and a to do list application. The popularity of these devices is due in part to their small form factor and operational readiness no boot time required . Thus PDAs allow convenient and instant access to a large amount of personal information.

Over time research has indicated that having a simple intuitive method of quickly accessing the personal information data is a feature of importance for many users of a PDA. Operating systems designed around this principle for example the Palm Operating System PalmOS from Palm Source Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. have captured a large proportion of the PDA market. An advantage of such operating systems is the flexibility with which a user can select and manipulate data in a number of different ways. For example a user may use up down scroll buttons can select an item displayed on a touch screen and or scroll through different category lists by repeatedly pressing an application button. In some contexts such as an address book application this allows a user to store and access a list of acquaintances and contact details relatively quickly and efficiently. Nevertheless there continues to be a need for a new useful interface that allow a user to select and arrange items in such lists quickly and in a simple manner.

In addition to a PDA many users also consider a cellular telephone to be an essential tool. Hence many users have both a PDA and a cellular telephone. The PDA provides functionality such as use as PIM organization. As an example of how a user uses both devices if a user has a call scheduled with a contact the time of that call may be noted in a calendar of the PIM. When the user is ready to initiate the call the user references the contact s telephone number in the address book of the PIM and thereafter dials that contact on the cellular telephone. The need to consult and interact with two separate devices is inconvenient as both time consuming and cumbersome.

One attempt to address these shortcomings was the pdQ Smartphone from QUALCOMM Incorporated San Diego Calif. which is illustrated in . The pdQ Smartphone includes a display indicator showing telephone mode status. The pdQ Smartphone also includes a closed keypad with push buttons for dialing telephone numbers as well as status lights a speaker and a microphone. illustrates another view of the pdQ Smartphone. In this view the keypad of the pdQ Smartphone is shown in an opened position exposing an organizer. The organizer includes a screen a writing area and soft buttons.

Although the pdQ Smartphone combines some of the functionality of an organizer and a cellular telephone it includes number of drawbacks. One drawback is it requires a separate dialing keypad for telephone functions and a separate input area for the PDA. This increase device form factor and increases device manufacturing costs associated with the separate dialing keypad. Another drawback is the pdQ Smartphone lacks external control functions not directly related to operation of the phone or the PDA portion but applicable to both. For example there is no mechanism to control speaker functions when the phone is not operational.

Yet another drawback is many users have two or more voicemail accounts e.g. cellular phone work and home which limits operational effectiveness of devices such as the pdQ Smartphone because it provides options for use with only a single voicemail account. Still another drawback is the pdQ Smartphone allowed access to networks e.g. the Internet but only through a dialing option. Devices thereafter have allowed for access to networks such as the Internet through general packet radio service GPRS or a wireless network connection e.g. IEEE 802.11 but requires software to control radio operation functions such as ON and OFF. This can be inconvenient because it requires the user to navigate through user interface menus or buttons which may not be intuitive while also making it a relatively time consuming task.

Therefore there is a need for an improved apparatus and method for combining and managing functionality of a handheld computing device and a mobile communication system e.g. telephone or other networked device .

The disclosed embodiments also include a handheld computing system e.g. an organizer that integrates wireless communications e.g. mobile or cellular telephony functionality. The handheld computing system is configured to function with the telephony features.

One disclosed embodiment includes a corresponding user interface for an integrated handheld computer computing and telephone system. By way of example a telephone system user interface is configured to provide a familiar user interface to the user. In one embodiment a user is presented with an option of a predetermined number e.g. four available user interface views and yet another user interface view e.g. a fifth view that is available when there is an active telephone call. These views are displayed on a digitizer pad or example a touch sensitive display e.g. pressure sensitive resistive electrically sensitive capacitance acoustically sensitive SAW surface acoustic wave or photo sensitive infra red and can be interacted with through the display itself.

An embodiment of a first user interface view includes a dial pad view that is similar to a common touch tone dial pad. However the dial pad view has added functionality and may automatically switch to other views as needed. A second available user interface view includes a speed dial view. The speed dial view allows users to easily create their own customized speed dial buttons that are easy to navigate between and can be edited at any time. The system may automatically switch from the speed dial view in certain circumstances.

A third user interface view includes a call history view. The call history view displays a list of previous incoming outgoing or missed calls and may be filtered as desired. As with the previous two views the system may automatically switch from the call history view to another user interface view as necessary. A fourth user interface view includes a contacts view. The contacts view provides a filtering mechanism that allows the user to search quickly and intuitively through a large personal contacts database. A fifth user interface view includes the active call view. The active call view displays a set of command buttons for accessing advanced telephone features during a telephone call such as hold three way calling DTMF touch tones hang up speakerphone etc.

The disclosed embodiments also include a QWERTY type keypad or keyboard that is integrated with the integrated handheld computer and telephony system. The QWERTY type keypad includes conventional keypad or keyboard keys structured in a QWERTY layout. The keys allow for conventional text and character input for applications running executed by the handheld computer portion of the integrated system. However a portion of the keys can also be apportioned in a configuration reminiscent of a telephone dial pad e.g. numerical placement of 1 9 and 0 as well as characters and . The keys that provide such dual operational functions operate as a dial pad when a telephony application of the integrated computer and telephony system is running. In one embodiment the dual operational function keys include the ERT keys with also function as 123 when the telephony application is operational likewise DFG correspond to 456 and XCV to 789 . In another embodiment YUI can correspond with 123 HJK to 456 and BNM to 789.

The disclosed embodiments provide a fully functional input mechanism that appropriately corresponds to applications operating in a handheld computing configuration or a telephony configuration. This provides users with a familiar easy to use interactive input mechanism without comprising functionality of the familiar input mechanism. Moreover the automated switch over between user interfaces depending on whether the application is handheld computer e.g. data related or telephony related further increases ease of use and operation. In addition other disclosed features and embodiments further allow for operational efficiency and ease of use of the integrated handheld computer and telephony system. For example multiple voicemail management radio transmission management for data communication and interface management.

Further disclosed embodiments include a set of external physical switch mechanisms that beneficially control operational aspects of the handheld computer and wireless communication device without having to navigate through user interface screens. In one embodiment the device includes an n way physical switch where n is equivalent to a number of desired modes of a particular function. The n way physical switch may be for example a slider a rocker a button or a solid state e.g. pressure sensitive type switch. With respect to its modes of operation if the functionality is for example notification options the switch may be a 3 position switch in which each position corresponds to a particular notification mode. By way of example one notification mode may be silent e.g. no notification on receipt of a communicative e.g. phone call email or instant message one may be sound e.g. play a ring tone on receipt of a communicative and one may be vibrate e.g. no sound but vibrate the device on receipt of a communicative . Thus control over how the device will function relative to a surroundings is beneficially controllable through an easy to use intuitive physical control mechanism rather than through user interface software mechanisms.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter

In the following description for purposes of explanation specific nomenclature is set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention. For example the present invention has been described with reference to handheld computer and wireless communication systems including mobile or cellular telephone systems. The mobile or cellular telephone system includes portable voice over Internet protocol VOIP devices. Further the same techniques can easily be applied to other types of wireless communication devices designed for portability and roaming e.g. BlackBerry platform devices from Research in Motion Limited Canada or GoodLink from Good Technology Inc.

The display area includes a visual display device such as a liquid crystal display for presenting information to the user. A user may manipulate the physical buttons to input information into the handheld computer system and make selections of information presented on the display area . In a preferred embodiment the display area may also be covered with a digitizer pad that can be utilized by the user to enter information to the computer system using e.g. a stylus not shown or a finger. It is noted that the digitizer pad may also be referenced as a touch sensitive display e.g. pressure sensitive resistive electrically sensitive capacitance acoustically sensitive SAW surface acoustic wave or photo sensitive infra red and can be interacted with accordingly.

In operation of the preferred embodiment the display area displays information to the user of the handheld computer system . The user is then able to employ e.g. a stylus a finger or inductive pen to manipulate and interact with the displayed information by touching the digitizer pad overlaid on top of the display device. In one mode of operation a stylus can be used in the manner of a writing pen to enter characters and figures by drawing the stylus across the digitizer pad.

In one embodiment the user is instructed to enter text into a specific area of the digitizer pad. The stylus and digitizer may function like a computer mouse to operate and manipulate interactive elements on the display. For example the computer system may present a virtual button in a location on the display that can be activated to perform an associated function by the user tapping the stylus or a finger on the digitizer pad at the virtual button location. The stylus can also be used to perform drag and drop operations in the fashion known in the use of a computer mouse.

The handheld computer system also includes an expansion connector slot seen in a rear view of . The expansion connector slot allows peripheral devices to be connected to the computer system to interact therewith. Many kinds of peripheral devices can be connected to the handheld computer system through the expansion connector slot including GPS receivers memory modules pager modules and cellular telephone transceivers.

The cellular telephone transceiver includes circuitry for enabling communications with a cellular telecommunications network and processing circuitry that together with onboard software or firmware allows the cellular telephone transceiver to interact with the handheld computer system . Various aspects of a handheld computer system and interconnected cellular radio telephone are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 516 202 and entitled A Mobile Computer System Designed for Wireless Communication Expansion which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference in its entirety.

It will be appreciated that the handheld computer system and functions of the cellular telephone transceiver operate principally under the control of computer software. The handheld computer system includes a microprocessor and built in software that provides application programs for the user. The cellular telephone transceiver may also include a microprocessor together with software code and data specifically required for the telephone functions.

In a preferred embodiment a computer software phone application that provides the user interface functions for the cellular telephone transceiver peripheral executes on the handheld computer system microprocessor. However the software code may be permanently stored in either the handheld computer or the cellular telephone transceiver peripheral . Similarly data used by the phone application can be stored in either device although it is preferred that acquaintance contact data and the like be stored in the handheld computer system so that it may be accessible by the user even when the cellular telephone transceiver peripheral is coupled to the handheld computer system .

To reduce the number of devices that a user needs to carry around an integrated handheld computer system and mobile communication or cellular telephone system is introduced. illustrate one embodiment of an integrated handheld computer and cellular telephone system . The integrated handheld computer and cellular telephone system includes a keyboard such that the user may easily enter names addresses phone numbers and email messages into application programs running on the integrated handheld computer and cellular telephone system .

The keyboard of also includes a digit dial pad area . The digit dial pad area is laid out like a conventional touch tone telephone dial pad. In this manner a user may dial telephone numbers using the familiar mechanical touch tone telephone dial pad. Note that the digit dial pad area uses the same keys used for various letters. To explicitly generate a number a user should press the option key in order to generate a numerical digit from the keys in the digit dial pad area . However the software in the handheld computer and cellular telephone system may interpret any key press in the digit dial pad area as a numerical digit in certain contexts whether or not the option key is depressed. For example if the user is entering a telephone number in a telephone number input field of a contact record any key press from the digit dial pad area will be interpreted as a numerical digit whether or not the option key is depressed.

In an alternate integrated handheld computer and cellular telephone embodiment not shown the alternate integrated handheld computer and cellular telephone system lacks the keyboard of . In such an embodiment the user enters text and numerical information using a stylus as set forth in the handheld computer system of .

In the expansion slot is coupled to the organizer extension . The organizer extension is hardware which is part of the cellular element but is under the control of the organizer and behaves as an extension of the organizer. The organizer extension includes read only memory ROM and a bidirectional communication medium. For one embodiment the bi directional communication medium is a Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter UART . For another embodiment the bidirectional communication medium may be a FIFO Dual port RAM registers or other such devices. The ROM includes the code to install a portion of the software on the organizer to allow the organizer to interface with the cellular element and to uninstall the installed software. For one embodiment the ROM further includes software which is executed in place by the organizer.

The phone specific hardware is the hardware in the cellular element that is used to control specific telephone functionalities. The phone specific hardware may include a radio frequency RF antenna an intermediate frequency IF logic a power connection a coder decoder speaker unit a microcontroller and other functions . For one embodiment the microcontroller includes a digital signal processor DSP . The microcontroller interfaces with the organizer via the organizer extension slot and the UART . The microcontroller also controls the functions of the other elements of the cellular element. The microcontroller sends an interrupt signal to the organizer when a telephone call is received. For one embodiment the telephone call can include voice data or fax connections.

For one embodiment the microcontroller also monitors the battery level signal . If the battery level signal indicates that the organizer does not have a battery in or if the battery level is below a threshold the microcontroller does not send the interrupt signal . Generally when a call is received the organizer is asked to respond. Using the battery level signal the organizer is not asked to respond when the battery level is below the threshold. This prevents the stand by power from being exhausted possibly leading to memory loss.

The codec speaker receives a microphone signal from the organizer expansion slot . For one embodiment the microphone signal is connected directly through the organizer from a microphone in the organizer. The organizer itself does not touch the microphone signal but merely passes it to the codec speaker . The speaker itself is in the cellular element. In this way the microphone in the organizer is integrated into the codec speaker in the cellular element.

The power is a battery or other device configured to maintain power to the microcontroller and the other elements of the cellular element. The power for one embodiment receives a power connection from the organizer. The power connection may provide auxiliary power operational power or charging power to the cellular element. For one embodiment the power connection is connected through the organizer expansion slot to an organizer cradle slot. One of the interconnections between the organizer and the cradle is a power connection. This power connection is routed through the organizer without being used within the organizer to couple the power signal to the power element when the cellular element is coupled to the organizer. The power connection is used to charge the battery in the cellular element. For one embodiment the power element may further include a backup power source such as a battery or capacitor to maintain memory or otherwise maintain necessary data within the phone specific hardware if the cellular element has not been charged in some period.

The baseband processor and media access control layer provide a conventional communications intermediary for data communications. The memory interface and the clock allow the processing component to use the system memory and clock of the integrated handheld computing and mobile communications or telephony device which helps reduce system cost and size by eliminating duplicative functional components. Nevertheless in alternative embodiments a separate dedicated memory and or clock may be used with the processing component . The host interface is used for the processing component to communicatively couple a host processor or controller within the handheld computing and wireless communication device. The mode interface is used for the processor component to communicatively couple with one or more modes of operation for example as described with respect to .

The radio and processing component are configured to provide data communications functionality. For example these modules may be configured for WiFi or WiMax communications. Moreover they can be configured to communicatively couple through the host interface the handheld computing device components for example the organizer or any of the other handheld computing applications described herein.

In a preferred embodiment the function of each mode element is related although each has a distinct characteristic or mode relative to the other mode elements. For example the functionality may involve notification. Example modes for notification may be silent e.g. no notification as mode A sound e.g. ring or ring tone as mode B and actuation e.g. vibrate optionally may include or exclude a sound as mode C . The switch mechanism can be physically toggled to select a particular mode . When a particular mode is selected it is powered through the power module . The selected mode module thereafter can instruct the processing component to activate the appropriate functionality as selected through the switch mechanism .

By way of example if mode A is selected the processing component can mute the speaker and stop an actuation mechanism within the device. If a ring mode is selected a ring tone may be retrieved by the processing component from a memory e.g. retrieve a stored MP3 WMA or AVI ring tone to play on a device speaker when sound is received. If an actuate mode is selected the processing component can mute the speaker and trigger an actuation mechanism to operate when for example a telephone call is received.

In another example embodiment the functionality may correspond to a selection of a communications operator and the mode function may allow for selection among the various operators. For example the communication medium may be a connecting the mobile telephone component with a mobile telephone network. The modes may correspond with a CDMA network a GSM network or no network. Thus device beneficially provides a mechanism to communicatively couple a variety of mobile communication networks without having to replace or change hardware components when a carrier network is changed. It is noted that this functionality may be structured through the software as an alternative to the described physical switch mechanism configuration.

In this example configuration each mode element would include the components necessary to function on the appropriate network. It is noted that the mode elements in this configuration may be physically separated or logically grouped where components may be shared once a particular mode is physically selected through the switch mechanism . In the logical grouping configuration the processing component or another intelligent mechanism e.g. a controller may be configured to communicatively couple the appropriate communication elements within the device which would correspond to the particular mode of communication selected.

In yet another example embodiment the switch mechanism and mode element structures can be configured for data communications. In this example the mode elements may correspond to control over a wireless data communications. For example the modes in this configuration may be radio ON or radio OFF e.g. placing a WiFi WiMax or Bluetooth radio in an ON state may correspond to transmitting or receiving WiFi WiMax or Bluetooth radio signals and placing it in the OFF state may correspond to no transmission or receipt of WiFi WiMax or Bluetooth radio signals . Such configurations are particularly useful in managing personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth connections between two or more devices because at least one of the devices can be placed in an ON state or OFF state through a physical switch on the device. The configuration simplifies use and operation because a user has immediate access to a control mechanism over the radio state rather than having to turn on a user interface screen and navigate through graphical screen user interfaces to reach the appropriate screens to exercise control over the radio state. As with the previous examples the structuring the device to change functionality with physical controls rather than software controls allows for ease of use and greater functional control over the handheld computer and wireless communication device.

It is noted that when a particular mode is selected through the switch mechanism additional levels of notification may be provided. For example in the notification configuration switching to an actuation mode e.g. mode C may actuate e.g. vibrate the device. Likewise by way of example switching to a sound mode e.g. mode B may cause a brief ring sound or tone. For other functional switching aspects a system and process can be configured to match particular device functionality e.g. no sound sound actuate with or without sound with a particular mode. For example setting if the switching mechanism is directed to WiFi radio ON state and OFF state an ON state can trigger a sound or actuate the device briefly with one characteristic e.g. a sound pattern such as long and or short beeps or a vibration pattern short and or long vibration duration and an OFF state may trigger a sound or actuate the device with another characteristic e.g. separate sound or vibration pattern . The additional level of notification beneficially provides a user of a device information of which mode is functional without having to visually inspect the switch mechanism the screen or other part of the device.

Selection of a mode can be made through a physical contact with a contact point e.g. . Alternatively the switch mechanism and contact point configuration can be replaced with functional equivalent elements of a semiconductor controller device or the like with allows for physical toggling of the switch and selection of a particular mode . Further the principles of the switching mechanism may be applied to other devices such as laptops or peripheral computing systems to the handheld computer and wireless communication device.

The second switch area can be structured for selection of wireless communication networks also as described above. It is noted that each switch area can be structured as for example a slider switch a rocker switch a set of buttons or a solid state switch e.g. pressure sensitive switch or a combination thereof. The switch area switches can toggle between n positions one for each available mode. For example if the first switch area corresponds with notification the switch may be three position slider rocker or solid state switch.

The software that executes on the handheld computer system includes a phone application . The phone app controls the user interface database and system level operations of the cellular element. The software may further be configured to include an address book . In one embodiment the address book changes format when the cellular element couples with the organizer. For example the address book displays a single key dialing ability when the cellular element couples the handheld computer portion physically if a separate component or logically if an integrated component .

Other applications such as conference calling e mail web browser etc. may be part of the software that runs on the handheld computer system. Any application that is altered by the connection of the cellular element with the handheld computer would be included in this list. The software that executes on the cellular element interfaces with the software that executes on the handheld computer using an application programming interface API . For one embodiment the API runs over serial communications over the bi directional communications medium.

For one embodiment the software that executes on the cellular element runs on the microcontroller in the cellular element. For one embodiment the software that executes on the cellular component includes the phone OS cellular telephony protocol stack and hardware control and interface . The cellular telephony functions include the cellular protocol stack frequency code selection control of data services etc. In one embodiment functions directly related to making a connection to the network are handled in the software that executes on the cellular component . Functions for database management storing and retrieving information about the connection etc. are executed on the handheld computer.

The phone pad includes software generated numbers to dial. The dial status screen shows the status of current calls. The dial log screen includes a log of past dialed and or received telephone calls. The dial log screen permits access to the call details screen . The dial status screen displays information about an ongoing call or calls. For one embodiment the dial status screen is automatically displayed on the viewer screen whenever a voice call s is established.

The base screen is the speed dialing screen . Programmed speed dialing screen includes identifiers for each of the individuals programmed into the speed dialer. The identifiers are designated by the user and may be nicknames or other identifiers. In one embodiment the top left hand slot is a voicemail slot. On the bottom left of the speed dialing screen are indicated the other base screens the dial pad screen and the call history screen not shown . An option to edit the speed dial listings is also provided.

At the top of the speed dialing screen and every other base screen for one embodiment are indicators. Examples of indicator include a time indicator a message indicator a signal strength indicator and a battery strength indicator. In one embodiment there are two message indicators indicating either a voicemail message or a text e mail message. In one embodiment the message indicator may further include service provider information as well.

From the speed dialing screen if a user presses a speed dial button the screen changes to the dialing screen . The dialing screen indicates the status of the call as well as the identity of the person called. In one embodiment there is a hang up option. When the call is connected the call active screen is displayed showing the connection time and providing the options of hanging up placing the call on hold placing a second call or engaging the key pad to dial additional numbers such as for a credit card call voicemail call dialing an extension etc. .

If the user selects second call the speed dialing screen appears although the user may optionally switch to another screen. The first call is automatically placed on hold. The second call is then dialed. The two call dial status screen indicates the status of both calls. In one embodiment only one call can be active at any time. In another embodiment multiple calls may be simultaneously active and in such a case the calls may be conferenced together.

An alternative base screen is the dialing pad . The dialing pad displays the software generated dialing keys. When the user starts dialing the dialing screen is displayed and the numbers dialed replace the status indicators at the top of the screen. It is noted that the screen illustrated are sample screens only. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the location contents or display format of any of data presented on the screen can be altered or made optional without departing from the spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

The user may chose to answer the call by pushing the answer button or ignore the call. In one embodiment the answer button may be a software generated button. In one embodiment the user may also accept or ignore the call by pushing a built in button on the cellular element. If the user ignores the call and voicemail is enabled on the system the call is automatically transferred to voicemail. In one embodiment if the user ignores the call the call may be transferred to a user designated destination. In addition a missed call screen is displayed showing the identity telephone number time and date of call. The user may acknowledge the missed call or may automatically return the call if caller identification is enabled. In one embodiment if the caller left a message on voicemail a third option is displayed permitting the user to listen to the voicemail left by the caller shown on voicemail screen .

If the user answers the call the active call screen is shown. From here the user can place the caller on hold hang up dial a second call or receive a second call. When a second call is received the first call is placed on hold in one embodiment. In this way the maximum amount of information is displayed to the user regarding the status of various calls and systems.

The user can further save information from the call history. If the user selects the save button a save screen is displayed. This save screen permits the user to automatically add data from the history entry to his or her speed dial list and or address book. In one embodiment if other programs are supported the user may further add the data into other programs such as a contact tracker etc. In one embodiment the call history may interface with a contact tracking application and automatically update information in the contact tracking application as calls are made and received.

At block control screen is displayed. The control screen includes each of the commands that are generally available in a voicemail system such as previous message next message back skip message delete message forward message back to the beginning reply to message etc. In one embodiment a subset of these commands may be made available. For another embodiment the user may alter this listing and may create new commands. At block the user is prompted to enter a command or command sequence for each of the commands that are available in the voicemail system. For example in a voicemail system pressing the 3 key may mean delete message. 

The user can enter the number 3 underneath the command key to program the command. In other systems the pressing the 7 key twice may be the code to delete message. The user can enter whatever key combination works for the specific voicemail system. At block after the user finishes programming the voicemail system the user is prompted to name the speed dial button. In one embodiment the default name is voicemail. However users may have multiple voicemail accounts and may wish to have more descriptive names. At block the process ends. The programming of the voicemail access is now complete and the user can access the voicemail system by pressing the speed dial button.

The embodiments disclosed allow for enhanced telephony functionality over conventional telephony systems. An embodiment of such enhanced offerings is a method and an apparatus for accessing contacts database and telephone services. For example cellular telephone users often are dependent upon speed dial features in their cellular telephones. A typical cellular telephone has a non volatile memory for storing the names and associated telephone numbers for a plurality of the user s acquaintances. The telephone speed dial user interface then allows the user to place a telephone call to one of the stored telephone numbers relatively quickly and easily.

Existing mobile telephone speed dial systems can operate in a variety of ways. One such speed dial system allows the user to associate a telephone number with a unique one or two digit code. The user can then dial the number by entering the one or two digit code followed by the SEND key to place the speed dial call. Other systems allow a single digit speed dial number to be dialed by pressing and holding the associated digit key. In order for this system to be effective the user must memorize the codes associated with the telephone numbers.

Another existing speed dial system allows the user to utilize letters associated with keys on the telephone keypad to spell out the name of the person associated with a stored telephone number. This can be a tedious process since typically three or four letters are assigned to each button on the telephone keypad which necessitates several key presses for each of the letters in the name spelt. Once names have been entered the names may be displayed on the telephone screen. The user may then use an input device up down keys or toggle switch to scroll up and down the list to select a desired name and thereby dial the associated telephone number. With a long list of names it becomes very cumbersome to scroll through the list.

With the advent of more sophisticated combined handheld computer and cellular telephone systems the telephone dialing aids can become much better. The present invention introduces telephone directory methods for quickly and intuitively allowing the user of a combined handheld computer and cellular telephone system to locate and dial the telephone number of a desired. Specifically the present invention provides a telephone application having a user interface that gives a user multiple different views of information that allow a user to make telephone calls in a simple intuitive manner.

The telephone user interface of the present invention comprises four permanently available views and a fifth view that is available when there is an active incoming or outgoing telephone call. The five different views consist of a speed dial view a dial pad view a contacts view a call history view and an active call view. illustrates a conceptual diagram of the telephone application . As illustrated in the telephone application consists of a set of principal telephone interface views that include the dial pad view call history view speed dial view contacts view and active call view .

In a preferred embodiment certain events will cause the telephone application to automatically switch between different views. For example when an incoming telephone call is detected the telephone application will automatically switch to the active call user interface view in order to show the user information about the incoming telephone call.

Another event that may cause the telephone application to automatically switch between different views is the entry of characters from an input device such as a keyboard or digitizer pad which can be interacted with a stylus finger inductive pen or other mechanism to select and input through the digitizer pad . In one embodiment the entry of an alphabetic character will cause the telephone application to move to the contacts user interface view that is used to search a database of personal contact information. The contact user interface view will then begin to filter through the contact database using the entered character s as a search string. Similarly the entry of a digit may cause the telephone application to automatically switch to the dial pad user interface view. Additional information on the various automatic user interface view switches can be found in the sections on each different interface view.

The dial pad user interface view provides a conventional dual tone multiple frequency DTMF touch tone dial pad interface to users such that users may make outgoing telephone calls with a familiar interface. illustrates one embodiment of the dial pad view. Although the dial pad user interface view is probably the most familiar telephone application view to new users the dial pad user interface view is probably the least efficient of the various different telephone application user interface views. In one embodiment the dial pad user interface view is set up as the initial user interface view for the telephone application in the handheld computer and cellular telephone system since most users will be very familiar with the dial pad user interface view. However the user may later select another view for more efficient telephone number dialing.

When a user is in the dial pad user interface view a user can touch the touch tone buttons presented on the screen as illustrated in to dial a telephone number. Pressing the telephone icon will send the entered digits to the cellular telephone network to initiate a telephone call. The dial pad view of may be invoked even when there is an active telephone call. In this manner the dial pad view may be used to enter DTMF touch tones in order to access interactive telephone response system such as a voicemail system or a telephone banking system.

In one embodiment when a user begins entering a telephone number the telephone number being dialed is placed in the title bar . The user may also access the last ten dialed telephone numbers by scrolling up or down. Specifically hitting the scroll up or down key will move through the last ten numbers dialed and individually display each number in the title bar area .

In the lower left corner of the dial pad view illustrated in the user interface includes four buttons for accessing the four permanently available user interface views. Specifically the buttons include a speed dial view button a dial pad view button a contacts view button and a call history view button . Note that the dial pad view button is shown highlighted by inverted graphic colors since the dial pad view is the current active view. To select any of the other telephone application user interface views the user merely selects the associated view button or . The user may also repeatedly press an application button associated with the telephone application to rotate through the various telephone application user interface views including the active call view if there is an active call .

As previously set forth a fifth user interface view is available when there is an active telephone call. illustrates a fifth user interface view button known as the active call view button used to access an active call user interface View that will be described later . Active call view button is only available when there is an active telephone call.

If the handheld computer and cellular telephone embodiment includes a keyboard as illustrated in then the user may dial a telephone number using the keyboard . If the keyboard contains keys that may be interpreted as a letter or a digit as is the case with the dial pad area of the keyboard illustrated in then the keystrokes entered from the keys in the dial pad area of the keyboard will be interpreted as numbers when in the dial pad view in the preferred embodiment. Letter keystrokes will be ignored.

In an alternate embodiment the dial pad user interface view is used to provide the user with an easy means of entering telephone numbers that use letter mnemonics. For example 1 800 FLOWERS is a floral service that uses the letter mnemonic 1 800 FLOWERS in order to have potential customers easily remember the contact telephone number. However dialing a telephone numbers with letter mnemonics can be quite difficult since the user must search the telephone dial pad in order to locate the DTMF key with the desired letter. In order to allow the user to quickly enter such telephone numbers one embodiment allows the user to enter the letters directly and the computer will translate the letters into the proper associated DTMF tones. For example if the text for FLOWERS were entered the DTMF tones associated with dial pad numbers 3549377 would be generated. See the alphabet to DTMF key mapping illustrated in .

Certain aliasing may occur in such an alternate embodiment. However an intelligent program could use certain heuristics to determine the desire number in most circumstances. For example if the user were to dial the full number 1800FLOWERS without using the option key to specify the 1800 portion as numbers the system would not know if the first four digits should be numbers 1800 or letters that should be translated into associated DTMF tones YN00 equivalent to dial pad numbers 9400 .

However a heuristic could be used to always translate the YN00 patter into the common prefix for eleven digit numbers. The FLOWERS portion would easily be recognized as a letter mnemonic in an embodiment that uses the keyboard of since none of the letters in FLOWERS is on the same key as a number. However the letter mnemonic of LAWYERS is ambiguous since the letter Y and the number 1 are on the same key on the keyboard of . In such circumstances the system could use the heuristic that All ambiguous letter number keystrokes located between two certainly letter keystrokes should be interpreted as letters . Thus since the L at the beginning of LAWYERS and the S at the end of LAWYERS can only be interpreted as letters then all the keystrokes between those two letters AWYER should be interpreted as letters.

Referring back to another one of the permanently available user interface views is the call history view . The call history view provides a list of previous incoming outgoing or missed calls such that a user may use that information to make a new outgoing call.

To dial a particular number from the call history list the user may select the call and then activate the dial button . Alternatively the user may simply press the space bar or return key on the keyboard illustrated in . To obtain more information on a particular call in the call history list the user may select a particular call from the call history list and then activate the details button .

If a user is in the call history view and begins entering alphabetic characters the telephone application will automatically switch to the contacts view. Once in the contacts view the telephone application will begin searching for a desired contact using the entered character s as a search string as will be set forth in the section on the contacts user interface view.

Referring back to another one of the permanently available user interface views is the speed dial view . The speed dial view provides a list of commonly called telephone numbers for quick access. Due to its simple and intuitive design the speed dial user interface view is probably the most useful user interface view of the telephone application after the user has customized the speed dial user interface view by entering several telephone numbers into it. Thus the user will be encourage to make the speed dial view the initial default view after some speed dial entries have been created.

The speed dial user interface view of the present embodiment implements a page metaphor whereby a plurality of speed dial pages are each used to store a sub set of speed dial records. In the embodiment of there are five different speed dial pages. To navigate between the different speed dial pages there are a set of five numbered speed dial page buttons and in the lower left corner of the speed dial user interface view. The currently displayed speed dial view page is the first speed dial page such that first speed dial page button is highlighted with inverted graphics. Tapping on any of the other page buttons or will effect display of the contents of that page and that page button will then become highlighted .

The user may navigate though the various speed dial entries using a scroll button. In the voicemail speed dial button is highlighted with a pair of white brackets . Pressing a scroll down button would move the highlighting to the next non empty speed dial entry Ron Work in this example . In one embodiment pressing the up scroll button when the first speed dial entry is highlighted will move to a non empty speed dial button on the next non empty page of speed dial buttons page 2 in this example assuming page 2 has a non empty speed dial button . In an alternate embodiment pressing the pressing the up scroll button when the first speed dial entry is highlighted will move to a non empty speed dial button on the next non empty page of speed dial buttons page 5 in this example assuming page 5 has a non empty speed dial button .

When the last non empty speed dial button of a speed dial page is highlighted Greg in this example pressing the scroll down button will move the highlight to the first non empty speed dial button of the next non empty speed dial page page 2 in this example assuming page 2 has a non empty speed dial button. . In an alternate embodiment pressing the scroll down button when the last non empty speed dial button of a speed dial page is highlighted Greg in this example will move the highlight to the first non empty speed dial button of the same speed dial page Voice Mail in this example .

The basic operation of the telephone application from the speed dial user interface view in ordinary operation is as follows. Each of the five speed dial view pages has ten speed dial soft buttons that are user assignable. When a speed dial button has been assigned to a speed dial record by the user that speed dial button displays the tag or label of the speed dial record. Tapping on activating a speed dial button causes the automatic dialing of the corresponding assigned telephone number. Tapping on a speed dial button with no number assigned e.g. an empty button effects display of an edit speed dial page as illustrated in that allows the user to generate a speed dial record to be assigned to that button.

Tapping e.g. or otherwise selecting on the title bar of the speed dial user interface view reveals a pull down edit menu not shown . Selecting the edit menu causes an edit speed dial page in to be displayed. Referring back to from the speed dial view the speed dial data can be entered and amended by the user through edit list edit entry and find number functions which are described in detail hereinbelow. The layout of the edit speed dial page is illustrated in . The edit speed dial page provides the primary basis by which the user can arrange speed dial settings on the Speed Dial pages edit speed dial records in and find telephone numbers for assignment to the speed dial buttons in .

The Edit Speed Dial page of contains a table of ten slots arranged in two columns of five with each slot corresponding to a speed dial button on the speed dial user interface view. There are notionally five edit speed dial pages one for each of the speed dial view pages. The slots in the table contain the text of the tags or labels for the speed dial records assigned to the corresponding buttons. When in the edit speed dial page view one of the slots is always selected and the user can change the selected slot by tapping on the corresponding position of the table. In the selected slot is indicated by inverted graphic colors.

Located below the table of speed dial buttons for a page is a set of speed dial page button icons that operate in a similar manner to the speed dial page buttons and and allow the user to navigate amongst the five edit speed dial pages. The speed dial page button icons however are larger than the speed dial page buttons and because they also display an indication of the speed dial button assignments on each of the speed dial pages. This is achieved by small horizontal lines arranged in the speed dial page button icons representing speed dial buttons on that page that have assigned speed dial records in the specified locations.

By way of example as seen in the speed dial page icon has ten horizontal lines indicated that the first speed dial page has all slots occupied and thus all corresponding speed dial buttons assigned. The second speed dial page icon indicates that that page has two empty slots buttons at the lower right positions. Speed dial pages three four and five are all shown as empty in . This icon display allows the user to quickly and easily determine which pages have empty slots buttons at a glance from the edit speed dial page view which is particularly useful for editing and rearranging speed dial assignments as described in greater detail herein below.

The edit speed dial page may also contain several command buttons at the bottom of the screen for performing specific functions. In the embodiment of only a Done command button is illustrated. Tapping on the Done command button returns the user to the speed dial user interface view. Other command buttons may be implemented to enable other operations to be performed on the speed dial record of the selected slot.

Tapping on an empty speed dial slot from the edit speed dial page causes the display of a new speed dial edit entry page as illustrated . The new speed dial edit entry page displays the data of the speed dial record for the selected slot speed dial slot. In particular the edit entry page has a Name field at for displaying and editing the speed dial record tag or label and a Number field at for displaying and editing the telephone number for the speed dial record.

The edit entry page also has a field labeled Extra Digits that provides the user the ability to specify a string of DTMF touch tones that may be sent by the user after initiating a telephone call using the telephone number associated with the speed dial record. For example for a particular telephone number corresponding to a voicemail system the user may specify a string of DTMF touch tones in the Extra Digits field for accessing the user s voicemail box. In another application of the Extra Digits field the Number may contain a long distance service access telephone number and the Extra Digits field may specify a particular long distance account code.

The entry fields Name Number and Extra Digits in the edit entry page are each editable by the user in conventional manner on the handheld computer system e.g. 300. For example the fields can be edited using the stylus on the touch sensitive screen or using a keyboard. When editing the Number or Extra Digits fields the computer system may be put into a special number lock mode that only allows numbers or other touch tone characters such as and to be entered. The edit entry page has several command buttons labeled Done Cancel and Lookup . Tapping on the Done button causes the telephone application to return to the edit speed dial page of retaining any changes to the speed dial record made by the user. The Cancel button effects return to the edit speed dial page of but discarding any speed dial record changes. The Lookup button allows the user to find a telephone number from the user s telephone book to be described in the next section to insert in the Number field.

Referring to tapping on a filled speed dial slot from the edit speed dial page causes the display of an existing speed dial edit entry page as illustrated . The difference between the new speed dial edit entry page of and the existing speed dial edit entry page of is that the existing speed dial edit entry page replaces the Lookup button with a Delete button that allows the user to delete the speed dial record.

One special speed dial record is a voicemail speed dial record associated with the voicemail box of the cellular telephone itself. To prevent loss of this special speed dial record the voicemail record associated with the voicemail box of the cellular telephone should not be deleteable. However the voicemail record is moveable such that the user can place the voicemail record into any available speed dial slot.

When a user is in the speed dial user interface view and begins entering alphabetic characters the telephone application will automatically switch to the contacts view of the telephone application. Once in the contacts view the telephone application will begin searching for a desired contact using the entered character s as a search string as will be set forth in the following section describing the contacts user interface view.

A speed dial button insertion procedure is illustrated at in beginning from a speed dial user interface page . The user taps on the title bar of the Speed dial page and selects the revealed Edit menu item . This cause the telephone application to bring up the edit speed dial page corresponding to the speed dial user interface page . The user selects one of the slots on the edit speed dial page to edit and taps it. The telephone application then displays the edit entry page allowing the user to edit the speed dial record as previously described. The user taps on the Done button at the completion of the speed dial record editing to return to the edit speed dial page as shown at . The selected slot now contains the edited speed dial record. Tapping on the Done button effects return to the corresponding speed dial page where the new speed dial record tag or label is displayed on the speed dial button.

A second speed dial record editing procedure is illustrated with reference to beginning from a speed dial user interface view . The user obtains the corresponding edit speed dial page through selection of the Edit pull down menu item. In this case the user selects a different speed dial page to edit by tapping on the associated speed dial page icon . An occupied speed dial slot on speed dial edit page is selected by tapping on it to transition to the edit entry page containing the speed dial record data for the selected speed dial slot. The user is then able to edit the speed dial record data as desired.

After completing the desired edits the user taps the Done button to store the amended speed dial record. The telephone application then returns to the edit speed dial page for the fourth speed dial page. Finally tapping on the Done button on edit speed dial page returns the user to the speed dial user interface view of the edited speed dial page the fourth speed dial page in this example.

Referring back to the final permanently available user interface view is the contacts view . The contacts user interface view provides the user access to a large database of contact information. Each contact record in the contacts database may contain the name work address home address work telephone number home telephone number mobile telephone number fax number Internet email address and other personal contact information.

The telephone numbers associated with the displayed names are displayed below the associated name and right justified. Note that by using a full line for the name and a full line for each associated telephone number the display will not need to abbreviate or shorten most names or telephone numbers. In a preferred embodiment only the voice telephony telephone numbers such as a home telephone number a work telephone number a main telephone number a mobile telephone number and or other voice telephone number associated with each name is displayed. Fax numbers are not displayed since it is generally not useful to dial a fax number from the computer based mobile telephone system. The telephone numbers are listed in the same order as the telephone numbers exist in the contact record.

In the command area of the contacts user interface view resides a pair of scroll buttons a new button and a search field . The new button allows the user to enter a new personal contact record. The scroll buttons allow the user to scroll up and down through the list of names and telephone numbers illustrated in the main area of the contacts user interface view. The search field allows the user to search for a particular name in the database of personal contact information. In one embodiment a search mechanism can be used further to help manage contact in the contacts database. The search system may be simple and intuitive to allow for each of use. In one embodiment the search field uses a multiple filter system to search the database of personal contact information.

The search field allows a user to enter characters from a desired name. Characters may be entered in different manners as dependent upon the particular handheld system. For example the characters may be entered using a keyboard or entered into a text area using a stylus in association with character recognition software. After each character entry the filter system produces a filtered subset of names and associated telephone numbers from the entire contacts database. At least a portion of that filtered subset is then displayed in the main area . If an alphabetic character is entered while the user is in any of the other permanent user interface screens the telephone application will immediately open the contacts user interface view and begin a search of the contacts database.

In a preferred embodiment the system creates a subset that contains all names having a first name that matches the entered letters for example GR would match the name Greg Shirai a last name that matches the entered letters for example GR would match the name Bob Green or a first name initial and last name that matches the entered letters for example GR would match the name George Robinson .

Spaces within names are ignored for matching purposes in order to use the space bar on a keyboard as the signal to dial the number. Thus vand matches the last name of name Jean Claude Van Damme. When a user deletes a character the search will add back names that now match the shorter string. Additional details on a preferred filtering embodiment can be found in the co pending patent application entitled Multi Context Iterative Directory Filter filed concurrently with this application and hereby incorporated by reference.

Referring to the user has entered the characters CAR in the search field . The search letters CAR match the names Harris Carmine and Lamb Carmen since the letters CAR are in the first names of those two names. The search letters CAR match the names Carter Jimmy and Carnack Mike since the letters CAR are in the last names of those two names. Finally the search letters CAR match the names Arnett Candy Arnold Chevy and Arnold Clint since the letters CAR match the initial of the first name and the first two letters of the last name of those three names. This final filtering criterion the matching of a first name initial and last name is one of the most powerful features of the search system because there is not a large amount of aliasing in this filter. This final filtering criteria is particular useful when searching for the contact information for a particular family member since the common last name of family members will cause undesirable aliasing.

In the example of if the user has family members Arnett Candy Arnett Kevin Arnett Paul and Arnett Susan only the name Arnett Candy is displayed since it is the only family name that matches the CAR string. At any time during a search the user may use scroll through the currently displayed search results by using scroll buttons scroll keys on a keyboard or other scrolling input means.

As previously set forth the telephone application may automatically open the contacts user interface view if the user begins entering characters while in the speed dial or call history view. In an embodiment that uses a keyboard containing keys that are associated with both a letter and a digit such as the Y 1 key on keyboard of it may be considered ambiguous as to whether the user is attempting to dial a number or spell out a name.

For example the series of keystrokes N 8 Y 1 K 6 K 6 and I 3 may be the name Nikki or the number 81663 . The telephone application will assume that a name is being spelled out and search through the contacts database using some filtering means. However if there is no matching contact and all the entered keystrokes were from keys that have both a letter and a digit then the telephone application will assume the user is attempting to dial a telephone number with the key pad area and automatically switch to the dial pad view and display the entered keystroke sequence as a series of digits. Thus it is possible to be in the speed dial user interface view begin entering keystrokes automatically switch to the contacts view and then automatically switch to the dial pad view if the series of keystrokes were all from the dial pad area and associate letters do not match an entry in the contacts database.

Referring back to in the main area of the contacts user interface view either a name from the left justified names or a telephone number from the right justified associated telephone numbers may be highlighted for focus. Normally the first telephone number in the main area is initially highlighted for focus. In the name Arnett Candy is highlighted with inverted graphics after a user has scrolled upward. When a highlighted name is activated by pressing an enter key a keyboard space bar or other means the system opens up a full contact editing screen for editing a contact record associated with the selected name. When a highlighted telephone number is activated by pressing an enter key a keyboard space bar or other means then that highlighted telephone number is automatically dialed by the cellular telephone system.

In a preferred embodiment the telephone numbers are not displayed exactly as the telephone numbers are entered into the contact record. Instead the telephone numbers are displayed exactly how the cellular telephone will dial the number. Thus any rules for adding or removing area codes or other prefixes or postfixes should be applied before displaying the number. Similarly any extraneous text such as ext. 123 should be removed.

In an alternate embodiment the email address if available associated with a displayed name is also displayed. The email address may be display on its own line just as the voice telephony telephone numbers are displayed. In this manner the user of the device may highlight and activate the email address. Activating the email address may launch an email application with an outgoing message addressed to the selected email address as an initial screen display.

Another user interface view of the telephone application is the active call user interface view. The active call user interface view is only available when there is an active incoming or outgoing telephone call. The contents of active call user interface screen will be dependent upon the telephone call incoming or outgoing and the particular abilities of the carrier network. In one embodiment the active call user interface view will allow the user to easily access various advanced telephone features. For example the user may place a call on hold initiate a three way call hang up the call enter the extra digits associated with an outgoing call or turn on off a speakerphone feature.

In the active call user interface view of the speakerphone is active such that the speakerphone button has been replaced with a cancel speakerphone button . If the call was initiated using a means other than a speed dial button associated with a speed dial record with a set of extra digits then the active call screen will provide a key pad button that can be used to access the dial pad view such that the user may enter DTMF touch tones. If the hardware embodiment includes a keyboard with a dial pad area as illustrated in then the user may simply enter DTMF touch tones by tapping the number keys in the dial pad area or other keys associated with DTMF dial tones such as and .

Certain events cause special alert pages to be displayed by the telephone application page. For example when an incoming call is received the user is presented with an incoming call alert screen.

If an incoming telephone call is received while the user is opening or closing the flip lid or presses a button on the integrated computer and cellular telephone system an undesirable action may occur. For example if the user is opening the flip lid while an incoming call is being received then the user may inadvertently answer the telephone call without having a chance to review the caller ID field. Similarly a user may pressing the scroll up button just when an incoming call is and the lid is closed this might cause the integrated computer and cellular telephone system to ignore the incoming call before the user even knew an incoming call was being received.

To prevent such undesirable effects one embodiment of the present invention uses an input lockout period . Specifically one embodiment ignores all input events such as lid opening event or a key press event for a predefined period when an incoming call is received. Thus if an incoming telephone call is received while a user is opening the lid the opening of the lid will not cause the integrated computer and cellular telephone system to answer the telephone call. Instead the system will display the interface of . Similarly if the user presses the upward scroll button when an incoming call is received and the lid is closed the button press will not ignore the telephone call. In one embodiment the lock out period is half a second. However it may be adjusted to a longer or shorter period of time.

Although the detailed description contains many specifics these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention but merely as illustrating different examples and aspects of the invention. It should be appreciated that the scope of the invention includes other embodiments not discussed in detail above. Various other modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus of the present invention disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Therefore the scope of the invention should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents. Furthermore no element component or method step is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or method step is explicitly recited in the claims.

