---

title: Visualizing and modifying ad-hoc network nodes
abstract: A method of managing a network including a plurality of nodes. The nodes are displayed, in a pictorial display, relative to a current geographic location of the nodes. The method includes modifying, via the display and via the network, one or more capabilities of one of the nodes. The node is an ad-hoc node. This method can improve network management flexibility, asset utilization, resource sharing, and load leveling.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09276774&OS=09276774&RS=09276774
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 09276774
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060829
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 511 890 entitled Visualization of Ad Hoc Network Nodes and filed on the same day as this application. The disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication networks and more particularly but not exclusively to representing ad hoc network nodes their capabilities their consumption of network services and their geographic locations in a display.

The statements in this section merely provide background information related to the present disclosure and may not constitute prior art.

In military network centric operations NCO it is highly desirable for communications and or weapon systems to perform effectively under difficult conditions and particularly under battle conditions. Mobile ad hoc networks MANETs can be extremely flexible and are often characterized by a significant amount of mobility and geographical movement. Because MANET nodes are mobile however the topology of a MANET network may change quickly and unpredictably. It can be extremely difficult to visualize trends and to spot potential trouble in a MANET in real time. Planning and management of mobile ad hoc networks becomes even more complicated for a network of networks in which a plurality of different network systems may be used.

The present disclosure in some implementations is directed to a method of managing a network including a plurality of nodes. The nodes are displayed in a pictorial display relative to a current geographic location of the nodes. The method includes modifying via the display and via the network one or more capabilities of one of the nodes. The one of the nodes is an ad hoc node.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. It should be understood that the description and specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the present disclosure application or uses.

Although various implementations of the present disclosure are described with reference to network centric operations NCO and military applications the disclosure is not so limited. The disclosure may be implemented relative to many different networks and network centric environments including but not limited to various enterprise systems and non military applications. Further the disclosure may be implemented in relation to networks including nodes other than or in addition to mobile ad hoc nodes. Thus the disclosure can be implemented in relation to various networks including stationary nodes and or mobile but not necessarily ad hoc nodes. Additionally although implementations of the disclosure are described with reference to a testing planning and demonstration environment the disclosure is not so limited. Implementations also are contemplated in relation to networks which are not included in a testing environment.

A system for managing a communications network in accordance with some implementations of the present disclosure is indicated by reference number in . The system is used for managing a communications network indicated generally by reference number . The network includes a plurality of nodes one of which is referred to as and includes the management system . In the present exemplary configuration the network includes a physical simulation network that may be used to plan test and or demonstrate various systems for a typical battle space at a plurality of levels. The simulation network may be e.g. LabNet by Boeing. Nodes also may together form one or more networks and in such cases the network may be referred to as a network of networks. A given node of the network may be real i.e. live virtual or constructive. A real or live node may be formed when a human operates hardware e.g. when a soldier operates a wireless telephone. A virtual node is formed e.g. when a human operating a workstation controls software to emulate a live node. A constructive node is formed e.g. when a live node is emulated entirely by software execution as further described below.

The nodes may be fixed mobile and or ad hoc nodes. Communication between mobile nodes in a battle space typically relies on terrestrial and or air space wired and or wireless communication modes using equipment such as radios radio systems beyond line of sight terminals satellites routers relays and or switches for the transport of data bits from one user platform i.e. end node to another. Exemplary nodes of the network include fixed nodes land mobile nodes and air mobile nodes . Nodes also include sea sub sea nodes which in the present configuration are live nodes. It should be understood that other or additional types of nodes may be included in the network and managed in accordance with implementations of the disclosure.

The network may include in addition to the network other real physical network s which may include real routers real network management system s and live nodes. The network also may include one or more distributed simulation systems which may be used as further described below to represent various real and virtual nodes and constructive nodes modeled in real time by the system on real physical network s .

The management system may be used to manage the real network e.g. while simultaneously managing a simulated network and or network of networks that are part of a war game experiment exercise or demonstration that involves virtual nodes. The system can be used to manipulate the network to detect and address less than perfect communication from a variety of simulated effects e.g. terrain weather actions of adversaries and or unintended misconfiguration of the network .

The management system can be used e.g. for health management of the network . In some implementations and as further described below network health and status of live and virtual nodes of a mobile ad hoc network MANET may be dynamically displayed on a geographical background at a user selected display scale. In some implementations the management system may be used to protect the network against various types of system attacks including but not limited to viruses Trojans worms polymorphic worms and spam. In some implementations an attack generator may be used for purposes of testing and or demonstrations. In the exemplary system shown in a network traffic generator subsystem may be used to generate a denial of service DOS attack in the network or a sub network thereof. As further described below a network restore subsystem can detect the DOS attack filter packets causing the denial of service and restore the affected network to its normal operating bandwidth.

Net centric interoperability of live and virtual nodes can be provided where live nodes register with a mobile ad hoc registry further described below to announce level s of interoperability possessed by the nodes . The management system includes a plurality of subsystems configured with hardware and or software for performing various functions relative to network nodes e.g. routers switches live nodes virtual nodes constructive nodes etc. managed by the system . A logical simulation subsystem includes a 2 D logical visualizer . A visualization subsystem includes a geo spatial information subsystem GIS 3 D visualization module and a user GUI graphical user interface subsystem . The subsystem is configured to provide a visualization of nodes of the network on a geographical background. The user GUI subsystem is configured to allow a user to interact with the visualization and with the management system .

A network performance subsystem is configured to monitor health and performance of the network . A mobile ad hoc registry subsystem is configured to register nodes joining the network and to record in a registry levels of interoperability of a node and capabilities of applications available on a node .

A network traffic generator subsystem is configured to generate real network traffic to selected segment s of the network . A network restore subsystem is configured to detect a network traffic problem and restore network communication. A master control module is configured to determine data flow and protocol s of data transfer among subsystems . The system may obtain data pertaining to network health of the network at predefined time s and for location s of various nodes of the network . Such health data may be stored in a configuration database . Initial configuration data for various tools of the management system including but not limited to configuration data for the subsystems may also be stored in the configuration database . A GIS database subsystem is configured to store digital terrain elevation data DTED and imagery data.

During operation of the system the network performance mobile ad hoc registry network traffic generator and network restore subsystems and are included in the management system virtual node which communicates with the physical network . The management system multicasts entity state protocol data units PDUs to the physical simulation network . In such manner the system can send control information to a selected node as further described below. Various subsystems shall now be described in greater detail.

The logical simulation subsystem acts as a central logical simulation subsystem e.g. for common planning using the management system . The logical simulation subsystem models constructive nodes and simulates live virtual and constructive nodes on the physical network . The logical simulation subsystem includes one or more application programming interfaces APIS for interfacing with source data coming to it in protocol which may include but are not necessarily limited to distributed interactive simulation DIS higher language architecture HLA and real data. A DIS interface listens for DIS entity state data through a port. A HLA interface listens for HLA entity state data through a different port. An IP network emulator IPNE interface intercepts real data before forwarding it to an appropriate IP address on the physical network .

The logical simulation subsystem receives data from various sources and protocols e.g. for use in illustrating a scenario to be demonstrated. The subsystem receives precise participant location and identification information PPLI entity state data from nodes via DIS protocol. PPLI entity state data is also received from container nodes for the subsystems and . The logical simulation subsystem also receives real data from each node being simulated and from the system virtual node . The logical simulation subsystem forwards real data to target node s on the physical simulation network .

The logical simulation subsystem models constructive nodes using a variety of models including but limited to antennae radios routers switches relays etc. Such constructive nodes can number in the thousands and can be modeled in essentially real time. The logical simulation subsystem can simulate live virtual and constructive nodes on the physical simulation network . Data pertaining to line of sight LOS power and range between two nodes is received in the logical simulation subsystem . LOS calculations are performed in the visualization subsystem although in some implementations calculation of line of sight LOS may be performed in the logical simulation subsystem .

When the logical simulation subsystem completes logical modeling for a node the subsystem outputs node data to the visualization subsystem via the master control module . Input and output data for the logical simulation subsystem are shown in Table 1.

The visualization subsystem is configured for the display of scenarios to demonstrate network activities of nodes on the physical simulation network e.g. from a time beginning to a user selected time T end . Various types of data may be visualized including but not limited to location data for one two or more nodes e.g. in DIS format or real format at time T. Link data between nodes of similar communication subsystem type at time T may also be visualized. Alternatively or additionally and as further described below applications capability s of a node and or interoperability information including a level of interoperability of a node may be visualized. Network health data for the network may also be shown using the visualization subsystem .

The visualization subsystem receives location data from the logical simulation subsystem or through the master control module to display 2 D and or 3 D views of the network . A 2 D view may represent a functional topology of the network including a network health management representation. A 3 D view may include a geographical background and or interoperability levels and or application capabilities of the node s . The visualization subsystem queries the mobile ad hoc registry subsystem for node interoperability levels and application capabilities.

Network health data can come to the visualization subsystem via notification and or request. The master control module may query the network performance module for the latest network health data or may request to be notified if a network issue is detected at a node or on a path on the network .

The visualization subsystem displays a 3D geographic background that can cover all node locations. Such a background may be provided from beginning to end of a demonstration via the system . An icon for each node is displayed on top of the geographical background at an appropriate moving speed. The visualization subsystem displays potential lines of communication between assets of the network which are capable of communicating with one another. Various levels of network performance may be differentiated e.g. by a color coding scheme green yellow and red in 2 D. The visualization subsystem displays an interoperability level for a node when requested by a user of the system . The visualization subsystem provides for human interaction with the system through the user GUI subsystem . For example a mouse hover may be activated to display details as to a node or the user may right click to select displayable attributes of a node.

As further described below the visualization subsystem provides a capability to pan zoom in and or zoom out. Various specialized looks for a view may be available to a user through various on screen buttons displayed by the GUI subsystem .

The visualization subsystem identifies a node and or a path between two nodes relative to which a network health issue is detected e.g. when a network health measure exceeds or falls below a threshold level or there is loss of communication. The visualization subsystem may zoom automatically to such a trouble spot.

The visualization module may be implemented using a programmer enhanced COTS base. Such COTS tool may be e.g. ESRI or Arc Engine on Windows platform with programming languages Visual C or VB. The geographical database may be e.g. a personal geographic database Microsoft Access . In some implementations ArcSDE may be used to act as a gateway into an Oracle database and geographic files. Geographic data may also be provided in real time via ArcWebServices . ESRI includes three protocol options for receiving input location data DIS data from the physical network regular data through sockets of the logical simulation subsystem and Tracking Server in the visualization module .

Request and return of interoperability data from the mobile ad hoc registry subsystem is performed via socket protocol. Request and return of network health data from the network performance subsystem is performed via SNMP protocol. Notification when new network health data is available from the network performance subsystem or when a defined network health problem is detected occurs via SNMP interface. When such event occurs the visualization subsystem can call procedure s in the network performance subsystem to get network health data for all network nodes or for a problematic node and or path. When a communications COMM link is lost a database trigger may call a pop up window to display a loss of COMM link notification to the visualization subsystem and invoke red lining properties of the visualization subsystem to zoom to the trouble node s . Input and output data for the visualization subsystem are shown in Table 2.

The network performance subsystem provides network health data of the real physical network . The subsystem provides a real measure of network performance thereby rendering as more realistic a demonstration via the system . In some implementations the subsystem employs remote detection and is non intrusive. In some implementations network health data may be supplemented by models provided by the logical simulation subsystem . Network health monitoring of constructive nodes is modeled in the logical simulation subsystem .

The network performance subsystem may act as a single node or as many because the origins of simultaneous health monitoring path traces can number in the thousands. A database for storing results of the network performance subsystem has its initial PPLI location data sent to the logical simulation subsystem once initially and it can move with planned movement of the network performance subsystem container node. Alternatively the database could stay at one location.

Data sent out by the network performance subsystem to probe the network passes through the logical simulation subsystem before reaching a node a live virtual or single constructive node of the physical simulation network . Data returned from the physical network also passes through the logical simulation subsystem before reaching the network performance subsystem .

The network performance subsystem provides continuous monitoring of the network by running predefined tests to monitor important paths of the physical network . A path is defined between a starting node and an end node . The network performance subsystem may provide notification through both SNMP interface and database trigger to let the master control module know a when a test is complete b when a threshold level of a given network health measure is reached signaling a predefined problem c when the network is trending toward sub optimization segment failure or total collapse and or d when network services have been restored.

The network performance subsystem provides procedures for returning data pertaining to network health measures when requested by a user of the system . Network health measures may include but are not necessarily limited to percent of packet loss propagation delay latency bandwidth throughput jitter and central processing unit CPU utilization. Input and output data for the network performance subsystem are shown in Table 3.

The user GUI subsystem is used for controlling a graphical user interface GUI as further described below. A user may use the GUI e.g. to activate the network restore subsystem to address degraded network performance. The user may activate the network performance subsystem to start probing to determine network performance. The user may query the configuration database for the latest network health status for the whole network . The user may right click a mouse to select attributes of a node to display. Additionally or alternatively the user may hover the mouse to display selected attribute values for a node .

The mobile ad hoc registry subsystem includes the registry referred to as a capability registry. One type of capability that may be included in the registry is referred to as a LIINCO level. LIINCO is an abbreviation for levels of information interoperability for network centric operations . Exemplary LIINCO levels are indicated generally in by reference number . In some implementations a LIINCO level represents a level of interoperability at which a node is capable of performing in relation to other node s in a network. For example a capability by a node for performing hypermedia transfer is represented in by a LIINCO level . A capability by a node for performing instant messaging is represented by a LIINCO level and so on. The LIINCO levels shown in represent a plurality of different capabilities that may be utilized in various ways by various nodes.

In some implementations two or more types of data may be collected from an end node and stored in the registry when the node joins the network . Specifically and for example one or more LIINCO levels and one or more applications capabilities of the node are collected and stored in the registry . Applications capabilities may include e.g. one or more capabilities to meet a mission requirement that the node entity can provide such as fire weapons track data and or jam network traffic .

The capability registry is connected with the physical network . When a node that is equipped with a capability client enters the network the node registers its LIINCO level s and its application capability s in the registry . The registry database includes LIINCO and application capability data for all registered nodes . It should be noted that in some implementations other or additional node information and or criteria could be stored in the registry and used by the management system for displaying and or modifying nodes . It also should be noted that when a node leaves the network the registry may retain the LIINCO and application capability data for that node. Accordingly the system can recognize and manage such a node if the node subsequently re enters the network e.g. at a new geographical location.

The mobile ad hoc registry subsystem sends initial PPLI data for its container node to the logical simulation subsystem . When there is a request from the master control module for capability data the mobile ad hoc registry subsystem sends the requested data to the master control module . Input and output data for the mobile ad hoc registry subsystem are shown in Table 5.

As previously mentioned in some testing and or demonstration environments some network management system implementations may include attack generators. In the current exemplary system the network traffic generator subsystem when commanded by the user GUI subsystem generates packets of data of a predefined protocol into the physical network . This action causes congestion at certain node s of the network . Another command from the user GUI may stop the network traffic generator subsystem .

The network traffic generator sends initial PPLI data for its container node to the logical simulation subsystem . Input and output data for the network traffic generator subsystem are shown in Table 6.

The network restore subsystem starts analyzing traffic going through its server when it receives a request from the user GUI subsystem . The network restore subsystem notifies the visualization subsystem when a DoS attack occurs. The network restore subsystem restores the network by routing the packets of DoS attacks to a predetermined server. The network restore subsystem also sends initial PPLI data for its container node to the logical simulation subsystem . Input and output data for the network restore subsystem are shown in Table 7.

A tool for restoring the network after a DoS attack may be e.g. Cloudshield by Cloudshield Technologies.

The master control module may act as the center of the management system . The control module may perform tasks i.e. services for data traveling between the subsystems . The control module also stores reusable components that can be downloaded to subsystems so that the subsystems can perform various tasks in an autonomous manner. Reusable components that can be plugged into other subsystems may include an adapter to translate DIS data to regular data and an adapter to translate GPS data received from a live node to DIS data.

The master control module saves PPLI data for a node at a time T in the configuration database . The master control module may calculate line of sight between two nodes and may calculate power range between two nodes of a specific communication system type. The master control module queries the configuration database for location data for node s link s between nodes and network health attributes of node s . Input and output data for the master control module are shown in Table 8.

The configuration database includes a repository which stores initial configuration data and updated data of entities for a particular demonstration. The database may also contain historical data e.g. location and or network health data at a predetermined interval and or may record the latest values for data attributes of nodes. Input and output data for the database subsystem are shown in Table 9.

A conceptual diagram of one implementation of various data flows and various data interfaces of the management system is indicated generally in by reference number . One or more computers including one or more processors and memory that provide at least part of the management system are indicated collectively by reference number . It will be understood by those knowledgeable in the art that many and various configurations of computers processors memory storage devices communication devices etc. could be used to implement systems such as the management system .

A conceptual diagram of one implementation of various software components of the management system is indicated generally in by reference number . A GIS web enabled GUI is configured to provide a 3 D GIS based graphical display and menus. A supporting GIS database is e.g. SQL based and may be extended with additional attributes e.g. rows and or columns as desired to contain information specific to the management system .

As further described below the GUI provides a display as well as display menus and tools for manipulating an eye point of a 3 D earth map view using e.g. zoom pan tilt etc. . The GUI also makes available means e.g. buttons for activating additional services specific to the system which may be linked directly into the display application or launched via a stand alone separate process.

Network emulation may be used to provide virtual network device nodes to augment the physical network . Virtual nodes may serve a plurality of purposes e.g. emulating RF network devices attached to simulated vehicles and or shadowing real network nodes desired to be represented in the configuration database shown in . Communications system data for such uses may be stored in a network emulation database .

It should be noted that through the use of network emulation network device identification and performance data can be joined with geo location data. For network devices emulated as being attached to mobile assets geo location data is provided e.g. by incoming data from an external vehicle motion simulation via a DIS protocol interface. In such manner specific network device IDs may be associated with specific DIS entity IDs. Referring to for virtual nodes acting as shadows of real nodes of the physical simulation network the configuration database may also be used to store values representing the desired fixed geographic locations of such nodes as may be desired for a demonstration scenario. Thus all network nodes may have a geo location value dynamic via DIS or static as attributes within the configuration database . The logical simulation subsystem can be tasked to perform various analyses of the network and add additional information to the configuration database . An API mechanism may be used to export a total set of data to the visualization system for further use including but not limited to graphical display.

Referring to mobile node assets and host systems e.g. ground vehicles aircraft etc. to which network devices are attached may be simulated using software and may communicate with other network elements via DIS protocol messages. DIS messages may inform interested receivers as to vehicle identification location orientation and health e.g. damage .

In some implementations simulation of mobile systems is primarily constructive. A simulation software framework e.g. a software program by The Boeing Company Chicago Ill. may be used to provide constructive entities. In some implementations a demonstration configuration may allow the addition of virtual simulation models and live simulation e.g. surrogate miniature etc. systems where available.

In one implementation a demonstration network node may host an instance of a capability server . The capability server may be used in augmenting simulated entities system s to perform registration interactions to populate the capability registry database shown in . The main application framework for the system may include a capability to request node registry data e.g. node ID information applications capability s and LIINCO level s from the capability server to add to configuration database content. Capability registry information may be available for selective display by a user as a part of the various attributes of a selected node.

The management system can be used to monitor various network paths and end nodes for connectivity and other performance and health status indications for immediate network commander awareness and visibility to mobile network node issues. In some configurations a network health monitoring tool e.g. AppCritical by Apparent Networks may be configured to monitor selected network nodes and generate triggers to initiate notifications of network issues to the configuration database .

When in use the management system can provide 3 D visualization of a mobile network for example as shown in . A display includes a geographical background relative to which a plurality of fixed and mobile network nodes and communication paths between nodes are geo located in essentially real time. For a node that is attached to a mobile system e.g. Humvee UAV ship fighter etc. a symbol for the node may be representative of the vehicle. For nodes such as routers and switches in a fixed location such as within a building a symbol representing the network device type may be displayed. Various additional attributes such as maximum network capacity current load health status as well as host system geo location and identification may be selectively displayed by the user. Potential lines of communication between nodes also may be selectively displayed by the user. Such information for example may be included in the augmented GIS database and populated by a service retrieving data via an API from an external source e.g. QualNet by Scalable Network Technologies .

A second display in accordance with one implementation of the disclosure is indicated generally in by reference number . A user of the system may activate a capability filter e.g. a LIINCO filter to selectively display nodes which meet the selected filter requirement s . For example in the display a square symbol is used to indicate those nodes having a LIINCO level indicative of an ability to perform instant messaging.

Information pertaining to a user selected node is displayed in a window . The window can include entity information network information that includes capabilities such as LIINCO levels and link information . In another implementation the window may additionally or alternatively include applications capability s of the selected node . A refresh button allows the user to refresh the information shown in the window in essentially real time.

A third display in accordance with one implementation of the disclosure is indicated generally in by reference number . In the display an alert window is displayed to indicate that a DoS event has been detected. The DoS has prevented communication between nodes and over a link which is shown in a color different from a color of functioning links . Information as to the status of the link is displayed in a window . The alert window allows the user e.g. to control network restoration and or delete the alert.

A fourth display in accordance with one implementation of the disclosure is indicated generally in by reference number . The visualization indicates that the link is restored to use and that the LIINCO filter is reconfigured.

In some implementations the user of the system can select a node in a display of the management system and change a capability level e.g. a LIINCO level and or application capability for the selected node. Such change s could be made in various ways e.g. by activating a window menu and or capability filter such as the LIINCO filter . The management system sends the capability change s to the selected node and in some implementations to the capability registry as previously described with reference to . In some implementations the user can make such changes in a 3 D visualization mode e.g. to evaluate such changes before actually updating the nodes.

A user thus can gain control over available capabilities of ad hoc nodes for example as a node enters the network. Where a node has a plurality of capabilities the user can select a different capability based e.g. on the essentially real time status of the network as shown in the management system display. Thus the user can influence the operation of the network in essentially real time via displays such as the display . Further in some implementations the user can implement policy i.e. rules set for operation of the network by graphically implementing options available in the management system display. The ability by a user to control node capabilities can provide a high degree of network management flexibility improved asset utilization recourse sharing load leveling and capability expansion e.g. by means of application programming interfaces APIs .

Various implementations of the disclosure can provide a 3 D visualization of all connections of a network identify any connection problems discovered and provide supporting diagnostics. The user GUI subsystem provides a pleasant non crowded easy to use human interface. The management system provides a high degree of flexibility in planning testing and demonstrating systems. The foregoing simulation methods make it possible to warp the problem in a simulation. For example a live node that is physically 1 000 miles apart from another node can be simulated as being only a few miles apart from the other node.

Various implementations of the present disclosure provide policy based network management with self forming and self healing capabilities. The foregoing management system provides for interoperability control of ad hoc nodes in an ad hoc network. It is possible to view the physical locations of all network assets in an environment. Additionally nodes not currently in the network but whose identities and capabilities have been identified through capability registration are still recognizable and controllable by the system when such nodes reappear in the network.

Mobile and ad hoc network planning which support look ahead to anticipate future asset deployment prediction are facilitated. Policy management methodologies for traversing information and network management layers of mobile ad hoc networks can be implemented using the foregoing system. The system can make integrated network management end to end across sub network boundaries possible. Further self forming communities of interest CDIs can be observed and influenced in real time.

Various application programming interfaces between COTS tools and the subsystems of the present disclosure make it possible to provide a high level of visibility of network nodes and links. In contrast to other tools currently in use implementations of the present disclosure can be used to show real time update of nodes on a network in a 3 D visualization indicating the quality of links. Active network management is facilitated whereby one can see the quality of connection including jitter and latency and link capacity for data.

