---

title: Piezoelectric and semiconducting coupled nanogenerators
abstract: An electrical generator includes a substrate, a semiconductor piezoelectric structure having a first end and an opposite second end disposed adjacent to the substrate, a first conductive contact and a second conductive contact. The structure bends when a force is applied adjacent to the first end, thereby causing an electrical potential difference to exist between a first side and a second side of the structure. The first conductive contact is in electrical communication with the first end and includes a material that creates a Schottky barrier between a portion of the first end of the structure and the first conductive contact. The first conductive contact is also disposed relative to the structure in a position so that the Schottky barrier is forward biased when the structure is deformed, thereby allowing current to flow from the first conductive contact into the first end.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08330154&OS=08330154&RS=08330154
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08330154
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061211
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Ser. No. 60 752 558 filed Dec. 20 2005 Ser. No. 60 759 637 filed on Jan. 18 2006 Ser. No. 60 795 734 filed Apr. 28 2006 and Ser. No. 60 796 442 filed May 1 2006 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with support from the U.S. government under grant number Cooperative Agreement No. NCC3 982 awarded by NASA Glenn Research Center and Contract No. DMR 9733160 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to electrical generators and more specifically to an electrical generator that employs a piezoelectric semiconducting structure to convert mechanical energy into electrical energy.

A Schottky barrier is a metal semiconductor junction that rectifies current and thus may be used as a diode. A metal semiconductor junction that does not rectify current is called an Ohmic contact. The rectifying properties of a metal semiconductor junction depend on the metal s work function the band gap of the intrinsic semiconductor and the type and concentration of dopants in the semiconductor.

A piezoelectric material is one that forms an electrical potential difference between two regions of the material when the material is subjected to uneven mechanical forces. For example when certain piezoelectric materials are bent they develop a positive voltage in one region and a negative voltage in another region.

Many micro scale and nano scale machines have been proposed for such uses as in vitro medical devices. However most of these machines are limited by the size of the power source that drives them. Specifically many such designs rely on chemical batteries to supply electrical power to the devices. Therefore they can be no smaller than the battery used and are useful only so long as the battery is able to provide power.

However some of such devices need to be operational for long periods rather than be limited by the lifespan of a battery. Also it may be extremely difficult to change the batteries in some devices such as environmental sensors.

Therefore there is a need for electrical generators that are capable of providing power for long periods and that are driven by environmentally available mechanical energy.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is an electrical generator that includes a first substrate a semiconductor piezoelectric structure a first conductive contact and a second conductive contact. The semiconductor piezoelectric structure has a first end and an opposite second end. The second end is disposed adjacent to the first substrate. The structure has a flexibility so that the structure bends when a force is applied adjacent to the first end thereby causing an electrical potential difference to exist between a first side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure and a second side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure at a portion of the first end. The first conductive contact is disposed so as to be in electrical communication with the first end and consists essentially of a material that creates a Schottky barrier between a portion of the first end of the structure and the first conductive contact. The first conductive contact is also disposed relative to the structure in a position so that the Schottky barrier is forward biased when the structure is deformed thereby allowing current to flow from the first conductive contact into the first end. The second conductive contact is disposed so as to be in electrical communication with the second end.

In another aspect the invention is a method of making an electrical generator in which a semiconductor piezoelectric structure is grown from a first substrate. A first conductive contact is placed in a position relative to the semiconductor piezoelectric structure so that when the semiconductor piezoelectric structure bends the first conductive contact becomes in electrical communication with a portion of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure so as to form a forward biased Schottky barrier therebetween.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of making a sheet electrical generator in which a plurality of semiconductor piezoelectric structures are grown upwardly from a conductive substrate. A first deformable insulating layer is deposited onto the substrate to a level so that the deformable insulating layer surrounds each of the plurality of semiconductor piezoelectric structures to a predetermined level. A conductive layer is deposited on top of the deformable insulating layer so that the conductive layer is in electrical communication with each of the plurality of semiconductor piezoelectric structures.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

As shown in in one embodiment of a generator a semiconductor piezoelectric structure having a first end and an opposite second end extends from a substrate . The semiconductor piezoelectric structure could include a nanostructure such as a nano wire a nano rod a nano belt or a nano tube. One representative nanostructure could include a zinc oxide structure as a zinc oxide crystal exhibits both the property of being piezoelectric and of acting as a semiconductor.

When a conductive contact e.g. a probe tip of an atomic force microscope applies a force in the direction of the arrow the semiconductor piezoelectric structure bends thereby creating a potential difference is created between a first side which is on the compressed side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure and a second side which is on the decompressed side . When the conductive contact touches the second side which has a positive potential relative to the first side a reverse biased Schottky barrier is formed between the conductive contact and the second side . Because the Schottky barrier is reverse biased no current flows between the conductive contact and the semiconductor piezoelectric structure . However as the conductive contact moves across the semiconductor piezoelectric structure and reaches the first side which has a negative potential relative to the second side the Schottky barrier between the conductive contact and the semiconductor piezoelectric structure becomes forward biased and current is allowed to flow through the Schottky barrier.

Zinc oxide ZnO exhibits both semiconducting and piezoelectric properties. One embodiment of an electric generator employs aligned ZnO nano wire arrays for converting nano scale mechanical energy into electric energy. The operating mechanism of the electric generator relies on the coupling of piezoelectric and semiconducting dual properties of ZnO as well as the rectifying function of the Schottky barrier formed between the metal tip and the nano wire . This approach has the potential of converting biological mechanical energy acoustic or ultrasonic vibration energy and biofluid hydraulic energy into electricity which may result in self powering of wireless nanodevices and nanosystems. These embodiments employ nano wires NWs and nano belts NBs including wurtzite structured materials such as ZnO GaN and ZnS to create self powering devices and systems which could be built at the nanoscale .

One experimental embodiment employed mechanical manipulation of a single ZnO wire belt by a probe coupled to an atomic force microscope AFM . By selecting a long ZnO wire belt that was large enough to be seen under an optical microscope one end of the ZnO wire was affixed on a silicon substrate by silver paste while the other end was left free. The substrate was an intrinsic silicon therefore its conductivity was relatively low. The wire was laid horizontally on the substrate however it was spaced apart from the substrate by a small distance to eliminate friction except at the affixed end . The measurements were performed by an AFM using a Silicon tip coated with Platinum film which had a tetrahedral shape with an apex angle of 70 was 14 m in height and had a spring constant of 1.42 N m. The measurements were done in AFM contact mode under a constant normal force of 5 nN between the tip and the sample surface with a scan area of 70 70 m.

Both the topography feed back signal from the scanner and the corresponding output voltage V images across a load were recorded simultaneously when the AFM tip was scanned across a wire or a belt. The topography image reflected the change in normal force perpendicular to the substrate which showed a bump only when the tip scans over the wire. The output voltage between the conductive tip and the ground was continuously monitored as the tip scanned over the wire or the belt. No external voltage was applied in any stage of the experiment.

The AFM tip was scanned line by line at a speed of 105.57 m s perpendicular to the wire either from above the top end to the lower part of the wire or from the lower part towards the top end. For a wire with a hexagonal cross section three characteristic features were observed. When the tip scanned above the top end of the wire without touching the wire the output voltage signal was nothing but noise. When the tip scanned until it touched the top end of the wire a spark output voltage signal was observed. The output voltage is negative for the load R for almost all of the observed cases indicating the tip has a lower potential than the grounded silver paste. When the tip scanned down along the wire it deflected the wire but could not go over it and the output voltage showed no peak but noise.

When subjected to a displacement force one side of the nano wire was stretched and the other side was compressed. The observed results are summarized as follows First piezoelectric discharge was observed for both wire and belt and it occurred only when the AFM tip touched the end of the bent wire belt. Second the piezoelectric discharge occurred only when the AFM tip touched the compressed side of the wire belt and there was no voltage output if the tip touched the stretched side of the wire belt. Third the piezoelectric discharge gives negative output voltage as measured from the load R. Finally while viewing a topography image it was noticed that the voltage output event occurred when the AFM tip was about finished crossing the width of the wire belt which means that the discharge event was delayed to the last half of the contact between the tip and the wire belt .

In order to explain the observed phenomena we now examine the potential distribution in the wire belt based on piezoelectric induced potential distribution. We simply consider the polarization introduced in a belt as a result of elastic deformation. The relationship between strain and the local piezo electric field E is given by dE where d is the piezoelectric coefficient. For a belt of thickness T and length L under the displacement of an external force F from the AFM tip applied perpendicularly at the top of the belt z L a strain field in the belt would be formed. For any segment of the belt along its length the local bending is described by its local curvature 1 R R is the local radius for describing the bending of the belt which is related to the shape of the belt by 

Examining the contact between the AFM conductive tip with the stretched and compressed side surfaces of the belt shows that the compressed side of the semiconductor ZnO wire belt has negative potential V and the stretched side has positive potential V . This is the cause of the two distinct transport processes across the Schottky barrier at the interface as described below. When the tip contacts the stretched side surface the Pt metal tip has a potential of nearly zero V 0 the metal tip belt interface is negatively biased for V V V0. The interface is thus a positively biased Schottky diode and it is possible to have current flow from the tip through the belt . The flow of electrons is to neutralize the piezoelectric ionic charges distributed in volume resulting in a sudden increase in the output electric current. The output voltage measured on the load is negative in reference to the grounded root of the belt with consideration the flowing direction of the current.

The elastic deformation energy as created by the displacement force F is mainly dissipated in three ways creating mechanical resonance vibration after releasing the belt generating piezoelectric discharge energy for each cycle of the vibration and overcoming the friction and viscosity if any from the environmental and substrate. The mechanical resonance of the belt may continue for many cycles but it is eventually damped by the viscosity of the medium. The piezoelectric voltage output is generated in each cycle of the vibration but the AFM tip in the experimental design may be too slow to collect the electric signal output from each cycle of the belt vibration. It was found that the discharge signal can sometimes be collected for an extensive period of time during which the belt may have resonated for over 10 cycles producing a continuous and constant output DC voltage. As the resonance frequency of the wire was about 10 KHz and the scanning speed of the tip was about 10 m s it is feasible that the wire had contacted the AFM probe tip over 100 times before it departed to the point that it was too far away to make contact. It was observed that a piezoelectric output voltage is created in each cycle of vibration. Thus a DC power source can be created by continuously collecting the output voltage.

There is current flow only when the AFM tip is in contact with the compressed side of the belt wire. If the AFM probe tip contacts the stretched side no output current is possible even under extremely large elastic deformation. This expected result was observed where a ZnO wire was subjected to a large deformation but no output voltage was received.

By deflecting a wire belt using a conductive AFM tip in contact mode the energy was first created by the deflection force and stored by piezoelectric potential and later converted into piezo electric energy. The mechanism of the generator is the result of coupled semiconducting and piezoelectric properties of ZnO. The piezoelectric effect is required to create electric potential of ionic charges from elastic deformation the semiconducting property is required to preserve the charges and then release the potential via the rectifying behavior of the Schottky barrier at the metal ZnO interface which serves as a switch in the entire process. The good conductivity of ZnO makes current flow possible. This process may also be possible for wurtzite structured materials such as GaN and ZnS.

A second embodiment of a generator is shown in in which a first conductive contact is disposed at the first end and a second conductive contact is disposed at the second end . The second conductive contact could be either placed against the semiconductor piezoelectric structure or placed against the substrate if the substrate is made of a conductive material. A load is coupled between the first conductive contact and the second conductive contact so that when a force is applied to the first end in direction F a current I flows through the load .

A third embodiment is shown in . In this embodiment the first conductive contact has an uneven surface. As a downward force is applied to the first conductive contact as shown in part of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure makes contact with the first conductive contact . This causes the semiconductor piezoelectric structure to bend and a potential difference forms between the two sides of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure . Initially as shown in only the positive side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure is in contact with the first conductive contact which creates a reverse biased Schottky barrier through which no current flows. However once the first conductive contact has been pushed down far enough the negative side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure makes contact with the first conductive contact thereby forming a forward biased Schottky barrier and allowing current to flow through the load . The fact that the positive side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure may still be touching the first conductive contact makes no difference since the Schottky barrier between the positive side and the first conductive contact is still reverse biased and therefore no current will flow through the positive side.

The device in the forward biased state has an energy band gap diagram as shown in in which the conduction energy level E of the compressed side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure which is ZnO in the example presented is greater than the Fermi energy E of the metal. Given that a negative potential V exists between the metal and the compressed side current is able to flow from the metal to the semiconductor piezoelectric structure using the convention that current represents the flow of charge from positive to negative across the Schottky barrier . When the metal is in contact with the stretched side of the semiconductor piezoelectric structure as shown in the conduction energy level E of the compressed side is not greater than the Fermi energy E of the metal and since the stretched side has a positive potential relative to the potential of the metal current is not allowed to flow across the Schottky barrier .

One embodiment as shown in employs an array of zinc oxide ZnO nanostructures with a corrugated conductor placed above the nanostructures . A load is coupled to the base of the nanostructure array forming an Ohmic contact therebetween and to the corrugated conductor . A micrograph of suitable ZnO nanostructures is shown in . In an alternate embodiment as shown in a sheet defining a plurality of nano bowls is used as the conductive contact. A micrograph of a plurality of nano bowls is shown in . Suitable nano bowls may be fabricated according to a method disclosed in detail in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0224779 A1 Ser. No. 11 010 178 filed on Dec. 10 2004 the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. This embodiment could be employed in generating electricity from body movement. For example this embodiment could be applied to the soles of a pair of shoes to generated electricity while the person wearing the shoes walks.

An embodiment that employs an array of nano wires that are activated by a reciprocating contact is shown in . The reciprocating contact includes a metal contact blade that is driven by an actuator such as a piston type actuator.

A rotating generator is shown in in which a semiconductor piezoelectric structure includes a plurality of nanorods extending radially from a core and that is capable of rotating about an axis in rotational direction R. The conductive contact defines an opening that is disposed so that as the nanorods are drawn against edges of the contact as the semiconductor piezoelectric structure rotates. In this embodiment flowing fluid can cause the semiconductor piezoelectric structure to rotate much in the way that a windmill rotates. This embodiment could be used as a generator within fluid flow structures such as a blood vessel or a water pipe.

An embodiment for converting vibrational energy into electrical energy is shown in in which an array of semiconductor piezoelectric nanostructures is placed in an opposing relationship to an array of conductive nanorods . A first end of at least some of the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods is adjacent to a first end of at least some of a set of the conductive nanorods so that as the conductive nanorods vibrate laterally in directions V and V with respect to the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods a forward biased Schottky barrier is formed by contact of at least one of the conductive nanorods and at least one of the semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods thereby generating an electrical current. A micrograph of an array of semiconductor piezoelectric nanorods is shown in .

In one method of making a generator as shown in a plurality of catalyst particles such as gold particles is placed on a substrate . Zinc oxide nano wires are then grown from the catalyst particles using a process of the type disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2005 0224779 A1. A deformable layer such as a layer of an organic polymer is deposited onto the substrate to a level so that the deformable layer surrounds each of the plurality of zinc oxide semiconductor piezoelectric structures to a predetermined level. An uneven conductive contact layer is placed above the nano wires so that as a downward force in the direction of the arrows is applied to the conductive contact layer forward biased Schottky barriers are formed in the manner discussed with reference to and a current is applied to the load . In this embodiment the deformable layer maintains the attitude of the nano wires keeps them separated and prevents them from peeling off of the substrate .

This embodiment may be subjected to extremely large deformation so that they can be used for flexible electronics as a flexible or foldable power source. One reason for choosing zinc oxide in this embodiment is that it is a biocompatible and bio safe material and thus it has a potential for being implanted as a power source in the human body. The flexibility of the polymer substrate used for growing zinc oxide nano wires makes it feasible to accommodate the flexibility of human muscles so that it can use mechanical energy body movement muscle stretching in the human body to generate electricity.

The embodiment shown in may also respond to acoustic wave or ultrasonic wave energy as shown in . Resonance of the nano wires as a one end free beam can also generate electricity.

The principles and technology demonstrated here have the potential of converting mechanical movement energy such as body movement muscle stretching blood pressure vibration energy such as acoustic ultrasonic wave and hydraulic energy such as flow of body fluid blood flow contraction of blood vessel dynamic fluid in nature into electric energy that may be sufficient for self powering nanodevices and nanosystems. The technology could have important applications in wireless self powered nanodevices by harvesting energy from the environment. It may also provide a method for indirectly charging of a battery. It may be possible to fabricate large power output electric generator by using arrays of ZnO wires belts which can be grown on substrates such as metal foils flexible organic plastic substrates ceramic substrates such as alumina and compound semiconductors such as GaN and AIN . The nano generator could be the basis for using self powering technology for in situ real time and implantable biosensing biomedical monitoring and biodetection. It could have the potential of solving key energy requirement for remote sensing and actuating.

In one embodiment as shown in the nanostructures could be patterned in clusters or as shown in individual nanostructures arranged in a pattern. In one embodiment as shown in the conductive contact could include an array of conductive pyramids .

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

