---

title: Muzzle brake for cannon
abstract: A muzzle brake has a rear end, a front end and a central axis. The muzzle brake includes a plurality of axially spaced turning vanes; each turning vane having an inside diameter that is substantially equal to or greater than an inside diameter of a rearmost turning vane, at least one turning vane having an inside diameter that is greater than the inside diameter of the rearmost turning vane; and each turning vane having a thickness that is substantially equal to or greater than a thickness of the rearmost turning vane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07600461&OS=07600461&RS=07600461
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07600461
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060815
---
This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 460 694 filed on Jul. 28 2006. This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application 60 595 912 filed on Aug. 16 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to munitions and in particular to muzzle brakes for gun tubes such as large caliber cannons artillery howitzers tanks and smaller caliber guns such as .50 caliber machine guns and guns carried by a one person.

High efficiency muzzle brakes used on large caliber weapons have low numbers two or three of baffles with relatively large areas. The low number of baffles results in rapidly increasing muzzle brake forces thereby producing high amplitude and high frequency loads due to the large area of the baffles and their few numbers. As an example the M 284 Muzzle Brake used on the M 109 Paladin and the XM 777 Muzzle Brake used on the LW 155 Towed Howitzer both use a two baffle brake with large areas. Analysis of the M 284 muzzle brake shows very abrupt and high load levels from the first baffle of the muzzle brake.

Most baffled muzzle brakes do not take into account the supersonic flow environment in muzzle brakes. Those muzzle brakes use geometries that may work well in subsonic flow environments or use geometries not based on good aerodynamic principals such as flat places or poorly curved surfaces. As a result the improperly designed geometries produce unsteady or oscillating flow fields in the supersonic flow environment.

Conventional low profile muzzle brakes have lower efficiencies than is sometimes necessary for operational use of cannons particularly for lighter weight vehicles that require low system impulse. Conventional low profile muzzle brakes typically use a pepper pot muzzle brake like the Crusader with a muzzle brake gas dynamic efficiency of approximately 0.6 or a combination pepper pot and Laval nozzle configuration like the Denel LEO muzzle brake with a gas dynamic efficiency of approximately 0.56. Low profile muzzle brakes are desirable due to reduced weight and better system integration. If there is some hardware that needs to fit around the muzzle brake a low profile brake is desirable. To obtain higher efficiencies muzzle brakes often become very large as is the case for the M 284 Muzzle Brake or the XM 777 Muzzle Brake.

It is an object of the invention to provide a muzzle brake with a plurality of axially disposed vanes.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a muzzle brake having an increasing inside diameter in the direction of flow.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a muzzle brake having turning vanes that maintain a constant thickness in the direction of flow while the inside diameter increases.

One aspect of the invention is a muzzle brake having a rear end a front end and a central axis the muzzle brake comprising a plurality of axially spaced turning vanes each turning vane having an inside diameter that is substantially equal to or greater than an inside diameter of a rearmost turning vane at least one turning vane having an inside diameter that is greater than the inside diameter of the rearmost turning vane and each turning vane having a thickness that is substantially equal to or greater than the thickness of the rearmost turning vane. In some embodiments the inside diameters of the turning vanes increase from the rear to the front of the muzzle brake. Each turning vane extends at least partially circumferentially around the central axis.

In one embodiment the muzzle brake further comprises a supersonic flow passage inside the muzzle brake wherein each turning vane is a supersonic turning vane comprising a suction side and a pressure side the suction side including an expansion turning wall the expansion turning wall comprising an angled portion and a substantially straight portion wherein the expansion turning wall creates an expansion fan that projects into the supersonic flow passage to turn supersonic flow into the turning vane the pressure side comprising a large radius curved surface the pressure side and the suction side converging to form a throat wherein a shock is formed upstream of the throat the shock decelerating the supersonic flow to subsonic conditions and the pressure side turning the subsonic flow the suction side including an outer nozzle expansion wall downstream of the throat the outer nozzle expansion wall diverging from the pressure side to form an expansion nozzle that expands the subsonic flow to supersonic conditions.

In another embodiment the muzzle brake further comprises a supersonic flow passage inside the muzzle brake wherein each turning vane is a supersonic turning vane comprising a suction side and a pressure side wherein profiles of the suction side and the pressure side are defined using a rectangular coordinate system having an origin located adjacent an intersection of the pressure side and an edge of the supersonic flow passage the profile of the pressure side defined by points through having substantially the coordinates of points through in and the profile of the suction side defined by points having substantially the coordinates of points in wherein a thickness of each turning vane has a value of one and the coordinates of points are relative to the thickness of each turning vane.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

In the present invention multiple turning vanes are used to spread muzzle brake loading out over time to reduce gun system high frequency shock input. Compared to prior muzzle brakes the invention uses smaller turning vanes in larger numbers. As a result the gun produces smaller increments of turning vane loading. Because pressure decreases from rear to front on a muzzle brake it is desirable to use smaller vanes at the rear of the muzzle brake to produce more even loadings on the muzzle brake.

The invention encompasses a low profile high efficiency muzzle brake. Higher efficiency reduces system weight and improves system integration. Given a maximum diameter for a muzzle brake overall muzzle brake efficiency can be controlled by adding an appropriate number of vanes. The internal diameter of the vanes may be varied. A small internal diameter less clearance around the projectile is used at the rear of the brake and the internal diameter increases toward the front of the brake while the overall increase in diameter is relatively small. Keeping the overall internal diameter small increases muzzle brake efficiency by forcing more propellant gas out of the muzzle brake.

By using a plurality of axially spaced turning vanes the invention spreads the force loading out over a longer period of time. Further by changing the vane thickness the invention controls the average force per row on the muzzle brake. Typically pressure is much higher for the first row of the muzzle brake. After the first row the pressure drops rapidly. By controlling the turning vane width for a given vane thickness the total loading per row can be controlled. By using a supersonic turning vane a lower amplitude high frequency noise response occurs due to a steadier flow environment. Thus in one embodiment the invention provides a low shock even loading muzzle brake by combining a supersonic turning vane profile with a progression in vane widths from narrow at the rear of the brake to wider at the front of the brake and a plurality of vanes to spread the loading out over the length of time the projectile travels down the barrel.

Because of its compact low profile size the muzzle brake is easier to integrate with retractable survivability shroud hardware on both future and prior art artillery systems. Moreover the invention permits very narrow profiles e.g. as thin as 1 inch or the thickness of a standard gun tube near the muzzle end of a gun. On the other hand large thickness vanes may be used up to the limit of maximum diameter allowed by system or weight limitations. Because of the low profile nature longer muzzle brake lengths are achievable. The longer low profile high efficiency muzzle brake uses a sufficient number of supersonic turning vanes to achieve the required efficiency based on the limitation of a maximum diameter. A brake with a plurality of supersonic turning vanes achieves efficiencies up to two to three times higher than other muzzle brakes of comparable size and in some cases higher efficiencies than large double baffle muzzle brakes.

The turning vanes are defined by a suction side and a pressure side . Each turning vane has an inside diameter D. The rearmost vane has the smallest inside diameter D. The remaining vanes have inside diameters at least as large as the inside diameter of the rearmost vane. To provide ample room for the projectile to pass through brake it is preferred that the inside diameter of the vanes increase in the direction of gas flow F. That is from the rear to the front each turning vane has a progressively larger inside diameter D.

Each turning vane has a thickness T. Preferably each vane has the same thickness T. However if constraints or limitations of the outside diameter make it desirous the turning vane thickness could increase in the direction of flow. By controlling the total surface area of the vane the total load on the vane may be controlled based on the pressure applied to the vane in the muzzle brake.

As seen in each turning vane extends at least partially circumferentially around the central axis C. The circumferential extent of the vane around the central axis C is the width of the vane and is expressed as a swept angle. The suction side and the pressure side of each turning vane is connected by one or more supports . In addition to providing mechanical support for the vanes the supports lessen the widths of the turning vanes . That is the supports act as a barrier to the passage of fluid through the vanes .

The supports may be used to vary the load on any vane. The greater the width of a support the less area that is available for fluid flow and consequently the less load that is absorbed by the vane. Because the rearward vanes experience high pressures and loading the supports on the rearward vanes may be made with a greater width than the supports on the forward vanes. In addition the larger widths of the supports at the rear may be required to structurally support the higher loads from additional rows of turning vanes forward of the support location. Loads on the rear support are highest because these supports withstand the load of all the vanes.

The supports of the rearmost vane will have the greatest width with each of the remaining turning vanes having supports with a width that is substantially equal to or less than the width of the support of the rearmost turning vane. In one embodiment at least one turning vane has a support with a width that is less than the width of the support of the rearmost turning vane. As seen in the supports at the rear of the brake are the widest and the supports at the front of the brake are the narrowest.

In one embodiment of muzzle brake supports are circumferentially spaced about 120 degrees apart measured from each support centerline . Thus each axial vane location has three supports . The muzzle brake is oriented such that one of the supports is on the underside facing the ground of the muzzle brake . By using a combination of 120 degree spacing and a series of supports on the underside of the muzzle brake gas flow is directed partially to the side and upwards. This reduces reflected blast waves and the resulting blast overpressure levels directly in front of the vehicle.

In one embodiment of muzzle brake each turning vane is a supersonic turning vane as shown in . Supersonic turning vanes produce lower amplitude high frequency noise. The supersonic turning vane uses a series of compression and expansion waves to setup a steady flow pattern in the turning vane. As a result high frequency noise is dramatically reduced. Supersonic turning vane can efficiently turn supersonic flow over large turning angles in a very short distance. By scaling the supersonic turning vane to the appropriate size a very narrow muzzle brake can be constructed.

Vanes effectively decelerate supersonic fluid flow to subsonic speeds so that the flow may be efficiently turned. The downstream flow path includes an expanding passage that accelerates the high stagnation pressure flow to supersonic conditions prior to exit. The shape of the turning vane creates strategically located expansion fans and shocks. The expansion fans and shocks permit the effective deceleration of the flow for efficient subsonic turning. The turning vane is optimized to utilize the expansion and compression waves that occur when supersonic flow is diverted from the centerline of the flow passage.

Turning vane includes a suction side and a pressure side . The suction side includes an expansion turning wall comprising an angled portion and a substantially straight portion . The expansion turning wall creates an expansion fan shown in dashed lines that projects into the supersonic flow passage to turn supersonic flow into the turning vane . The pressure side comprises a large radius of curvature relative to the chord length or passage hydraulic diameter.

The pressure side and the suction side converge to form a throat . The throat is the area of minimum cross section. A shock shown in dashed lines is formed upstream of the throat . The shock decelerates the supersonic flow to subsonic speed. The pressure side turns the subsonic flow. The suction side includes an outer nozzle expansion wall downstream of the throat . The outer nozzle expansion wall diverges from the pressure side to form an expansion nozzle that expands the subsonic flow to supersonic speed.

In the three dimensional turning vane support members connect the suction side to the pressure side to support the vane. The support members are disposed circumferentially around centerline C. The turning vane has a thickness T as shown in .

At angled portion the wall makes a relatively sharp turn and continues as a substantially straight section . The angled portion and the substantially straight section form the expansion turning wall on the suction side of the vane . The expansion turning wall creates the expansion fan . Expansion fan projects into the center core flow of the flow passage . The expansion fan efficiently turns a portion of the supersonic flow F into the vane .

Slightly down the suction side a shock is formed due to separation in the area of point along the suction side . The location of shock is influenced by the angle of expansion wall the change in radius at point and the width of throat . The shock decelerates the supersonic flow which has been diverted by the expansion fan to subsonic speeds. The subsonic flow is then turned by the pressure side of the vane . The majority of the turning of the flow occurs at the pressure side . Because the flow is subsonic at the pressure side the turning is very efficient. The throat controls flow through the vane .

After the flow is turned it is expanded in expansion nozzle to supersonic speed. The pressure side and the outer nozzle expansion wall define nozzle . In nozzle the pressure is reduced and additional thrust is produced. The design of vane produces a relatively uniform mass flux throughout the vane. Thus a small vane thickness T is able to achieve a high turning angle.

In points define the pressure side . In points define the suction side . The X Y coordinates for each point are given in . The inventive turning vane has a shape such that the coordinates of its points correspond substantially to the coordinates in . Variations from the coordinates shown in are allowable as long as the turning vane functions as described above. are enlarged views of the pressure and suctions sides respectively.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

