---

title: Instrumented component for combustion turbine engine
abstract: An instrumented component () for use in various operating environments such as within a combustion turbine engine (). The component () may have a substrate, a sensor () connected with the substrate for sensing a condition of the component () during operation of the combustion turbine () and a connector () attached to the substrate and in communication with the sensor () for routing a data signal from the sensor () to a termination location (). The component () may include a wireless telemetry device () in communication with the connector () for wirelessly transmitting the data signal. Recesses () may be formed with a root portion () of components () within which wireless telemetry device () may be affixed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07969323&OS=07969323&RS=07969323
owner: Siemens Energy, Inc.
number: 07969323
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060914
---
The Government of the United States of America has certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. 70NANB4H3042 awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards and Technology.

The present invention relates generally to monitoring operating environments and in particular to components enabled for wirelessly transmitting data with respect to the condition of individual components within an operating environment such as a gas turbine engine.

Gas combustion turbines are used for a variety of applications such as driving an electric generator in a power generating plant or propelling a ship or an aircraft. Firing temperatures in modern gas turbine engines continue to increase in response to the demand for higher efficiency engines. Superalloy materials have been developed to withstand the corrosive high temperature environment that exists within a gas turbine engine. However even superalloy materials are not able to withstand extended exposure to the hot combustion gas of a current generation gas turbine engine without some form of cooling and or thermal insulation.

The instrumentation of a component such as a blade or vane within a gas turbine typically includes placing wire leads on the balance wheel which continue on to the blade airfoil. The wire leads are typically held together by an epoxy. These wires are routed from within the component to the turbine casing. The pressure boundary of a component may be breached to introduce a sensor such as a thermocouple and a braze is back filled to hold the thermocouple in place. Each thermocouple sensor has wire leads coming out of the component that are connected back to a diagnostic unit. Instrumenting a plurality of components in this manner results in an extensive network of wires just for monitoring the single operating condition of temperature.

In use air is drawn in through compressor where it is compressed and driven towards combustor . Combustor mixes the air with fuel and ignites it thereby forming a working gas. This working gas temperature will typically be above about 1300 C. This gas expands through turbine being guided across blades by vanes . As the gas passes through turbine it rotates blades and shaft thereby transmitting usable mechanical work through shaft . Combustion turbine may also include a cooling system not shown dimensioned and configured to supply a coolant for example steam or compressed air to blades and vanes .

The environment within which turbine blades and vanes operate is particularly harsh being subject to high operating temperatures and corrosive atmosphere which may result in serious deterioration of blades and vanes . This is especially likely if the thermal barrier coating should spall or otherwise deteriorate. Embodiments of the invention are advantageous because components may transmit data indicative of a component s condition during operation of combustion turbine .

U.S. Pat. No. 6 576 861 which is specifically incorporated herein by reference discloses a method and apparatus that may be used to deposit embodiments of sensors and sensor connectors with transmitters in accordance with aspects of the present invention. In this respect methods and apparatus disclosed therein may be used for the patterning of fine sensor and or connector features of between about 100 microns and 500 microns without the need of using masks. Multilayer electrical circuits and sensors may be formed by depositing features using conductive materials resistive materials dielectric materials insulative materials and other application specific materials. Alternate methods may be used to deposit multilayer electrical circuits and sensors in accordance with aspects of the invention. For example thermal spraying vapor deposition laser sintering and curing deposits of material sprayed at lower temperatures may be used as well as other suitable techniques.

Transmitters may be multi channel and have various specifications depending on their location within a casing of combustion turbine . Transmitters may be configured to function within the early stages of compressor which are subject to operating temperatures of between about 80 C. to 120 C. Transmitters may be configured to function within later stages of compressor and or stages of turbine subject to operating temperatures of greater than about 120 C. and up to about 300 C. Transmitters may be fabricated using silicon on insulator SOI technology and other materials capable of operating in regions with temperatures greater than about 120 C.

One or more sensors may be connected with one or more compressor vanes by fabricating or depositing sensor and connector directly onto a surface of vane . Connector may extend from sensor to a termination location such as the peripheral edge of vane so that a distal end of connector is exposed for connection to transmitter . Sensor and connector may be positioned on vane to minimize any adverse affect on the aerodynamics of vane . Embodiments allow for a distal end of connectors to be exposed at a termination location which may be proximate a peripheral edge of a component or other suitable location. This allows a field technician to quickly and easily connect connector to a transmitter regardless of its location.

Type K thermocouple materials NiCr or NiAl may be used in sections of compressor having an operating environment up to approximately 800 C. For example NiCr 20 may be used to deposit a strain gage in compressor . Type N thermocouple material such as alloys of NiCrSi and NiSi for example may be used for depositing sensors in sections of turbine having an operating environment between approximately 800 C. to 1150 C.

Type S B and R thermocouple materials may be used for depositing sensors in sections of turbine having an operating environment between approximately 1150 C. to 1350 C. For example Pt Rh Pt Rh 10 and Pt Rh 13 may be deposited to form sensors within turbine provided that the material generates an acceptable thermoelectric voltage for a particular application within combustion turbine . Ni alloys for example NiCr NiCrSi NiSi and other oxidation resistant Ni based alloys such as MCrAlX where M may be Fe Ni or Co and X may be Y Ta Si Hf Ti and combinations thereof may be used as sensing materials for high temperature applications in deeper sections of compressor and throughout turbine . These alloys may be used as sensing material deposited in various sensing configurations to form sensors such as heat flux sensors strain sensors and wear sensors.

Components within combustion turbine such as blades and or vanes may have application specific sensors deposited to conform to a component s surface and or embedded within a barrier or other coating deposited within combustion turbine . For example shows an exemplary turbine blade which may be a blade from row of turbine having high temperature resistant lead wires such as connectors deposited to connect an embedded or surface mounted sensor with a wireless telemetry device . Device may be mounted in a location where the telemetry components are exposed to relatively lower temperatures such as proximate the root of blade where the operating temperature is typically about 150 C. 250 C. and higher.

Silicon based electronic semiconductors such as those that may be used for transmitting data may have limited applications due to their operational temperature constraints. Temperature and performance properties of silicon and silicon on insulator SOI electronic chip technologies may limit their applications to operating environments of less than about 200 C. Aspects of the invention allow for such electronic systems to be deployed for wireless telemetry device within compressor which typically has an operating temperature of about 100 150 C.

Embodiments of wireless telemetry sensor systems may be configured to operate within higher temperature regions present in later stages of compressor and within turbine . These regions may have operating temperatures of about 150 250 C. and higher. Materials having temperature and electrical properties capable of operation in these higher temperature regions may be used for depositing sensors connectors and fabricating wireless telemetry devices .

Sensors and high temperature interconnect lines or connectors may be deposited using known deposition processes such as plasma spraying EB PVD CVD pulsed laser deposition mini plasma direct write mini HVOF or solution plasma spraying. Typically dynamic pressure measurements dynamic and static strain and dynamic acceleration measurements are desired on both stationary and rotating components of combustion turbine together with component surface temperature and heat flux measurements. Thus embedded or surface mounted sensors may be configured as strain gages thermocouples heat flux sensors pressure transducers micro accelerometers as well as other desired sensors.

Wireless telemetry device may include a board an electronic circuit an operational amplifier a modulator and an RF oscillator transmitter electrically connected with each other via interconnects . The embodiment of is an exemplary embodiment and other embodiments of device are contemplated depending on performance specifications and operating environments. Embodiments of device allow for a power source and a transmitting and receiving antenna to be fabricated on board thereby forming a transmitter such as transmitter shown in or wireless telemetry device shown in .

Antenna may be seated within recess and transmitter may be seated within recess . In this aspect antenna and transmitter are not mounted embossed or deposited onto a board . In other embodiments antenna may be deposited on a wireless telemetry board as shown in and the data may be transmitted using wireless telemetry to a receiver such as a stationary mounted transceiver . Power source may be integral with board or located separately from the board and mounted as a discrete component.

Transmitter and antenna may be integrally secured with blade so that the outer mold line defined by root is not altered. For example transmitter may be affixed to a transition area or platform above the fir tree portion of root and antenna may be affixed to a face of root . Alternately recesses may be formed within the platform and face so that all or a portion of transmitter and or antenna are seated below the surface of the outer mold line of blade root . Transmitter and antenna may be secured within respective recesses using an epoxy or adhesive and a backfill material may be place over them for protection from high temperatures or particulates.

With respect to wireless telemetry device may be affixed to blade root externally or embedded in such a way so that an outer mold line of the blade root is not significantly altered. Device may be affixed proximate blade root so that it is contained within a cavity that is created between the blade root and a rotor disk of turbine when blade root is inserted within the rotor disk. This enables a turbine blade instrumented with sensor connectors and device to be installed into a mating segment of a rotor disk of turbine in the same manner as a turbine blade that is not instrumented. In this respect instrumented blade may be manufactured having all components necessary for wirelessly extracting data indicative of various operating parameters or conditions of blade and or a barrier coating deposited thereon and transmitting that data to a receiving device.

For example one or more recesses or trenches may be formed into a portion of the substrate of blade such as blade root within which one or more wireless telemetry devices may be contained. Trenches may be formed by milling out desired regions of blade root and securing device within the trench with an epoxy or other suitable binder. The trenches may be back filled with a suitably high temperature cement or ceramic paste to protect device .

While the preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will occur to those of skill in the art without departing from the invention herein. Accordingly it is intended that the invention be limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

