---

title: Automated ranking of electronic communications
abstract: Various methods and systems for automatically ranking electronic communications such as emails based on both content and social factors are disclosed. One method assigns a rank to an electronic communication, where assigning the rank involves both assigning a content-based rank to the electronic communication and assigning a social rank to the electronic communication. The rank assigned to the electronic communication can include both the content-based and social rank. Alternatively, the rank can be derived from the content-based and social ranks (e.g., the rank can be an average of the content-based and social ranks).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510389&OS=08510389&RS=08510389
owner: Symantec Operating Corporation
number: 08510389
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061229
---
Innovations such as email and instant messaging have changed the way people communicate. These forms of electronic communication allow people to quickly and easily convey information to each other. For example one employee can draft an electronic document and store that document on a server that is accessible to other employees allowing the other employees to access the document at their convenience without having to obtain a physical copy of the document. As another example people can easily send and receive text messages or emails.

As people increase their usage of electronic forms of communication however new problems have begun to arise. One such problem is the management of the electronic communications themselves. For example many corporations archive the emails sent and received by employees. As the number of emails to be archived increases it becomes increasingly difficult to effectively provide access to the archived email. For example if the archival system includes a search interface the sheer volume of archived emails may lead to the search results returned for a relatively generic search query easily exceeding the number of results that can be quickly and easily navigated by a user. Such voluminous results are also likely to contain many results that are not relevant or useful to the user and these irrelevant results may be just as likely to be returned at the top of the list of search results as more relevant search results.

The inability to identify desirable search results decreases the overall value of the archival system since this inability decreases the likelihood of users actually making use of the search interface. As this example shows new techniques for managing the increasing volume of electronic communication are desirable.

Various embodiments of methods and systems for automatically ranking electronic communications such as emails based on both content and social factors are disclosed. In one embodiment a method assigns a rank to an electronic communication where assigning the rank involves both assigning a content based rank to the electronic communication and assigning a social rank to the electronic communication. The rank assigned to the electronic communication can include both the content based and social rank. Alternatively the rank can be derived from the content based and social ranks e.g. the rank can be an average of the content based and social ranks .

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects inventive features and advantages of the present invention as defined solely by the claims will become apparent in the non limiting detailed description set forth below.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments of the invention are provided as examples in the drawings and detailed description. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed. Instead the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Electronic communication ranking module is configured to assign one or more rankings to each electronic communication archived by archive module . Electronic communication ranking module ranks an electronic communication according to both content and social factors as described in more detail below. The rankings generated by electronic communication ranking module can be stored by archive module .

In this example archive module archives electronic communications sent from and or received by messaging client which is implemented on computing device . Messaging client is a client of messaging server . Messaging client can be an email client an instant messaging client a text messaging client e.g. using Short Messaging Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Server MMS or the like BlackBerry client electronic bulletin board client news feed client or any other type of electronic messaging client. It is noted that electronic communications can include messages such as email text and instant messages sent according to a messaging protocol as well as other types of electronic documents that are used to communicate within an organization such as voice mail files electronic facsimile fax files word processing documents and the like.

Computing device messaging server and archive module are coupled by network . Network can include one or more of a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. Network can be implemented using a variety of different topologies and media including electrical optical and or wireless links.

In some embodiments a network appliance is coupled to one of the other components of the system shown in . In this example network appliance is interposed between network and messaging server . Network appliance can intercept electronic communications being conveyed to messaging server and perform various operations e.g. junk mail filtering virus scanning and the like on the intercepted electronic communications.

In the illustrated system when an electronic communication is sent to the user of messaging client the message is initially sent to messaging server via network appliance . The user can access the electronic communication via messaging client . At this point both the messaging server and the messaging client can have a copy of the electronic communication.

Archive module can obtain a copy of the electronic communication in a variety of different ways. In one embodiment archive module accesses an application programming interface API provided by messaging server to obtain a copy of the electronic communication. Archive module can routinely e.g. at prespecified intervals or in response to prespecified stimuli poll messaging server in order to obtain copies of new electronic communications received by messaging server subsequent to the last time archive module polled the messaging server.

Alternatively archive module can obtain a copy of an electronic communication by interacting with messaging client . For example messaging client can be configured to forward all or some electronic communications to archive module . Alternatively messaging client can present an API that allows archive module to request electronic communications.

In yet another embodiment all or some of the data stored by computing device is regularly backed up and archive server can obtain copies of electronic communications received by messaging client from a backup of the data stored by computing device . For example the user of computing device may create a backup of one or more emails in a personal folder PST file. Archive module can access the PST file and extract one or more electronic communications from that PST file.

In the system illustrated in electronic communication ranking module processes each electronic communication that is received by archive module . Electronic communication ranking module can process electronic communications before during or after archival of the electronic communication.

Electronic communication ranking module can in some embodiments be configured to selectively rank only certain communications. Information identifying which communications to rank can be provided to electronic communication ranking module by an administrator. For example an administrator can create a list of policies that identify which communications to rank.

While electronic communication ranking module is shown as part of archive module in the illustrated example it is noted that electronic communication ranking module can alternatively be implemented within any of a variety of different system components. For example electronic communication ranking module can be part of a record management system e.g. as part of a record management server or a content management system e.g. as part of a content server .

In other embodiments electronic communication ranking module can be implemented as part of network appliance messaging server or messaging client . In situations in which electronic communication ranking module is not part of archive module archive module can in some embodiments obtain the ranks generated by electronic communication ranking module from the component that includes electronic communication ranking module . For example electronic communication ranking module can send the ranks to archive module as the ranks are generated. Alternatively archive module can routinely poll electronic communication ranking module for the ranks. In other embodiments electronic communication ranking module modifies the electronic communications to include the ranks e.g. by incorporating the ranks into an unused field within each electronic communication allowing archive module to obtain the ranks when the electronic communications themselves are obtained.

In one alternative embodiment electronic communication ranking module is part of network appliance . In this embodiment electronic communication ranking module can rank electronic communications being sent to and or from messaging server . If it is desired to selectively rank only certain electronic communications as opposed to ranking all electronic communications electronic communication ranking module can maintain its own policies e.g. in an administrator provided configuration file that identify which communications e.g. based upon characteristics such as author sender receiver content storage location creation date size and the like should be ranked.

Electronic communication ranking module can either incorporate the rankings into the electronic communications themselves such that the modified electronic communications will be provided to messaging server and then ultimately to archive module store the rankings locally to be provided to archive module when the archive server requests them or provide the documents directly to the archive module e.g. if electronic communication ranking is integrated with archive module as shown in . If the rankings are stored or provided to archive module directly information identifying the electronic communication that is being ranked can also be stored or provided in order to allow each ranking to be correlated with a corresponding electronic communication.

In one embodiment archive module is implemented using Enterprise Vault and or IM Manager available from Symantec Corp. of Cupertino Calif. As already noted above archive module can be implemented separately from e.g. on a different computing device than and or as part of a different application than electronic communication ranking module in some embodiments. Additionally in alternative embodiments archive module can be integrated with various other system components such as network appliance messaging server and messaging client .

Electronic communications are ranked based on both the social rankings of the parties that create and or access the electronic communications and the content of the electronic communication. In some embodiments these two ranks are combined into a single rank while in other embodiments both ranks are maintained and used allowing each rank to be used independently of the other rank .

As noted above the social ranking of an electronic communication is based upon the social rankings of the parties that create and or access the electronic communications. For example if an email is being ranked the social ranking of the email can be based upon the ranks of the sender and or the ranks of one or more of the recipients. Recipients include direct recipients e.g. as identified in the to field of the email as well as indirect recipients e.g. as identified in the carbon copy cc or blind carbon copy bcc fields of the email . Similarly if a electronic copy of a word processing document is being ranked the social ranking can be based upon the ranks of the author e.g. as identified in metadata included within or associated with the document and or the viewers e.g. as identified in metadata that identifies users who have accessed the electronic copy of the document of the document.

In some embodiments social rankings are based upon static rankings assigned to each potential creator and or viewer of an electronic communication. These rankings can be provided to electronic communication ranking module in the form of a list table or other set of information that electronic communication ranking module can access to determine the rank of a particular party.

In other embodiments electronic communication ranking module receives an initial set of rankings or information usable to derive an initial set of rankings and then modifies those rankings over time. For example in one embodiment electronic communication ranking module first receives information identifying the organization s hierarchy. Electronic communication ranking module identifies an initial rank for each party within the organization based upon that party s place within the hierarchy. Electronic communication ranking module then updates these initial ranks based upon the communications that are exchanged within the organization. For example the rank of a party that primarily sends communications to and or receives communications from one or more higher ranked parties can be increased. If for example the organization is a business the Chief Executive Officer CEO may be designated as the person with the highest rank. A party who exchanges communications with the CEO is more important than a party that does not. Accordingly the rank of the party that communicates with the CEO can be increased relative to the rank of the party that does not communicate with the CEO. More details regarding how social rankings can be implemented are provided below with respect to .

Electronic communication ranking module also generates rankings based on the content of each electronic communication. To generate content based rankings electronic communication ranking module can either be preconfigured with information used to generate the rankings or be dynamically configured based on user rankings. If electronic communication ranking module is preconfigured electronic communication ranking module can be provided with information that identifies how content based rankings are to be generated. For example electronic communication ranking module can be provided with a list of keywords or phrases as well as information identifying the importance of each. Based on the number of different keywords and or phrases within all or part e.g. the header or title of an electronic communication and the preconfigured information electronic communication ranking module can generate a content based ranking for the electronic communication.

In embodiments in which the information used to generate content based rankings is developed over time electronic communication ranking module initially has little or no information about how to rank specific content. Instead users e.g. individual users and or other specialized enterprise personnel such as administrators managers attorneys or the like rank communications manually. The communications and their corresponding ranks are provided to the electronic communication ranking module . Based upon this input electronic communication ranking module identifies ranking criteria and or rules using active learning techniques. Electronic communication ranking module can then begin to generate rankings automatically based upon the identified criteria and or rules. More detail about one embodiment of a method for dynamically developing content based ranking criteria and or rules is presented below with respect to .

Over time an organization s needs with respect to ranking may change. For example as an organization s focus or policy changes certain types of content may become more or less valuable. Accordingly in some embodiments electronic communication ranking module can be reconfigured or otherwise updated to change its existing ranking policies. For example if an organization is restructured a new initial set of social ranking information can be provided to electronic communication ranking module . In order to update the ranking mechanism s in use to reflect changed the organization s changed needs electronic communication ranking module can be reinitialized and or reconfigured e.g. by providing new static or initial configuration information to electronic communication ranking module .

Alternatively electronic communication ranking module can provide a user interface that allows the current ranking rules and or criteria to be viewed and or modified. In such embodiments an administrator can update the ranking information via the user interface without needing to fully reinitialize electronic communication ranking module .

The ranks assigned to electronic communications can be used for a variety of different purposes by an archive module such as archive module of . The ranks can be used by archive servers search engine and or indexing modules replication modules backup modules network appliances security modules and the like. Example uses including ranking search results e.g. electronic communications with higher rankings will be placed closer to the top of the list of search results ordering search indices in rank order making indices scalable by performing different levels of indexing for different ranks e.g. electronic communications with high rankings are indexed in entirety while only the titles of electronic communications with lower rankings are indexed prioritizing archival and backup processes e.g. communications having higher ranks will be copied prior to those of lesser rank determining retention categories e.g. communications having higher ranks are retained longer than communications of lower ranks . Other uses include determining how to backup electronic communications e.g. higher ranked communications can be backed up to disk while lower ranked communications are backed up to tape or not backed up at all sorting electronic communications and when duplicating e.g. via replication copies of communications for use in disaster recovery or for compliance purposes e.g. higher ranked communications will be duplicated before lower ranked communications .

Rankings can also be used by system components other than archive servers. For example a network appliance can use the rankings of electronic communications to control how the electronic communications are communicated throughout the system e.g. certain recipients may not be allowed to access electronic communication of a certain rank as well as whether certain electronic communications are allowed outside of the system e.g. certain high ranking electronic communications may not be allowed outside of a corporate intranet .

As shown electronic communication ranking module includes an interface a control module a social ranking module and a content ranking module . Social ranking module includes party identification module party ranking module and ranking calculation module . Content ranking module includes parsing module criteria identification module and ranking calculation module .

Interface is configured to receive electronic communications to be ranked and to output rankings of those electronic communications. In one embodiment interface is configured to obtain electronic communications by polling a messaging server for new electronic communications extracting backed up electronic communications from a backup intercepting electronic communications being sent to a messaging server or performing any other technique to obtain a desired set of electronic communications.

Interface can include both logical interfaces e.g. software ports and physical interfaces. While interface is shown as part of electronic communication ranking module it is noted that interface can also be part of another module e.g. an archive module with which electronic communication ranking module is integrated.

Control module is configured to coordinate the actions of the other modules within electronic communication ranking module . Control module can cause all or part of an electronic communication received via interface to be provided to one or both ranking modules. Control module can also receive rankings generated by social ranking module and content ranking module for a given electronic communication. If desired control module can generate a single ranking based upon the rankings received from social ranking module and content ranking module . Control module can also store the final ranking s for future access along with information identifying the electronic communication described by the rankings modify the electronic communication to include the final ranking s and or provide the final ranking s to an archive server or other consumer of communication rankings.

Control module can also implement a user interface that allows an administrator to configure electronic communication ranking module . This user interface can allow an administrator to provide configuration information e.g. identifying algorithms to use when generating particular rankings for particular types of electronic communications identifying which parties and or content to consider when generating rankings for particular types of electronic communications and the like to electronic communication ranking module . This user interface can also allow an administrator to view and or modify current configuration information. The user interface can also allow an administrator to provide view and or modify information used to rank parties within an organization and or to rank particular content that may appear in electronic communications.

Social ranking module is configured to rank electronic communications based upon the social status of one or more parties who authored and or accessed the electronic communication. Social ranking module is configured to access social ranking information e.g. via interface that identifies the rank of each party to be considered in the ranking. The particular party or parties to consider when ranking an electronic communication can vary e.g. depending upon the type of electronic communication being ranked . Configuration information either prespecified or provided by an administrator associated with social ranking module can identify the particular party or parties to use when generating a ranking for each type of electronic communication.

Thus when all or part of a new electronic communication is provided to social ranking module for ranking party identification module can access configuration information e.g. via interface to determine which party e.g. author sender recipient viewer and the like or parties to use in the ranking. For example the configuration information associated with emails can indicate that the sender and recipients of each email should be used when ranking emails. Similarly the configuration information associated with word processing documents can indicate that the author of each word processing document should be used when ranking word processing documents.

Based on the configuration information party identification module then parses the electronic communication or its associated metadata to obtain the identity of each party for that specific electronic communication. The type of party identified in the configuration information can indicate which portion of the electronic communication or its associated metadata should be parsed to obtain the identity of each party. For example if the configuration information indicates that the sender of an email should be used party identification module can obtain the identity of the sender from the from field of the email. In situations in which metadata is accessed to obtain the identity of a particular party the metadata can either be provided to party identification module e.g. along with the electronic communication with which the metadata is associated or obtained by party identification module e.g. by interacting with a file system .

After obtaining the identity of each party to be used in the ranking party identification module can then provide the identity of each party to party ranking module . Party ranking module receives the identity of each party and looks up the ranking associated with each identified party. Party ranking module can look up the ranking within a set of social ranking information that has been provided to and or is maintained by social ranking module . Party ranking module obtains the ranking of each identified party and provides the ranking s to ranking calculation module .

Ranking calculation module receives one or more rankings from party ranking module that correspond to a particular electronic communication. Ranking calculation module calculates a social ranking for the electronic communication based upon the rankings received from party ranking module and provides the social ranking to control module . In some embodiments the social ranking is simply the sum or average of the individual party ranking s associated with the electronic communication.

In other embodiments the social ranking is calculated by inputting the individual party ranking s to a prespecified algorithm e.g. obtained from the configuration information . Different algorithms can be used to rank different types of electronic communications. The algorithm can give different weights to different parties so that some parties rankings have more of an effect on the resulting social ranking than others. For example one algorithm for calculating the social ranking of an email can weigh the ranks of the sender and receiver s e.g. by multiplying the ranks by different multiplicands such that the rank of the sender of an email will have more of an effect on the email s ranking than the rank s of the recipient s .

In one embodiment the ranking of an email message is defined to be the weighted sum of the ranking of the sender of the email as well as the ranking of the receiver s of the email. If an email is sent to a distribution list the email s ranking is based upon the rank of all parties that send emails to the distribution list as well as the ranking of each recipient identified in the distribution list.

As noted above social ranking module uses social ranking information that identifies the current social rank of each party that can potentially be associated with an electronic communication. In some embodiments this social ranking information is static. In such embodiments a copy of the social ranking information or information from which the social ranking information can be derived is provided to electronic communication ranking module and stored as part of the configuration information.

In other embodiments social ranking information is dynamically updated. In these embodiments social ranking module is configured to receive information that identifies the initial social ranking of each party in an organization or information e.g. such as information that identifies each party s place within an organizational hierarchy from which such initial rankings can be derived. Social ranking module then monitors the exchange of electronic communications within the organization and updates the initial social rankings based upon the monitored exchange. For example if an initially lower ranked party primarily exchanges emails with significantly higher ranked parties the social ranking of the lower ranked party can be increased. In some embodiments several types of social rankings are assigned to each party at least initially and used to compute a final social ranking for each party. More detail regarding how the rankings can be updated is presented below with respect to .

Content ranking module is configured to receive all or part of an electronic communication generate a content based ranking of that electronic communication and return the generated ranking to control module . Parsing module is configured to search an electronic communication for key words or phrases that are used in generating a content based rank.

Parsing module can search the electronic communication for keywords or key phrases that are identified in configuration information associated with electronic communication ranking module . This configuration information can be static or dynamic. In embodiments that use static configuration information to generate content rankings the static configuration information is provided by an administrator and accessed by parsing module .

In other embodiments the configuration information identifying words and or phrases to be used in generating content rankings is generated dynamically. In these embodiments minimal or even no initial content ranking configuration information is provided instead criteria identification module monitors and processes pre ranked electronic communications in order to derive a set of ranking criteria. These criteria can identify the particular key words and or phrases used by parsing module . More details regarding how criteria identification module can generate ranking criteria are provided below with respect to .

Once parsing module has identified the keywords or key phrases within the electronic communication parsing module provides these key words and or phrases to ranking calculation module . Parsing module can also identify the number of occurrences of each key word and or key phrase within the electronic communication.

Based on the information received from parsing module ranking calculation module generates a content based ranking for the electronic communication. Like ranking calculation module ranking calculation module can generate the ranking based upon an algorithm. This algorithm can be prespecified or generated by criteria identification module .

As noted above control module can receive the social ranking calculated by social ranking module and the content based ranking calculated by content ranking module . Control module can store these rankings along with information associating the rankings with the electronic communication being ranked. These rankings can in one embodiment be stored in a ranking database. Alternatively or additionally control module can modify the original electronic communication to include the rankings e.g. by inserting the rankings into a previously unused field of the electronic communication .

In some embodiments instead of using the two rankings individually control module generates a single ranking based on the social and content based rankings. Control module can generate this ranking by inputting the social and content based rankings to a prespecified algorithm e.g. included within the configuration information associated with electronic communication ranking module . Alternatively control module can simply sum or average the social and content based rankings to generate the final ranking. Control module can then save the ranking and or modify the electronic communication to include the ranking either of these actions can be performed instead of or in addition to saving the social and content based rankings and or modifying the electronic communication to include the social and content based rankings . The ranking can be stored in a ranking database instead of or in addition to the individual content based and social rankings.

As noted above less than all of an entire electronic communication can be used when generating a social and or content based ranking. For example the configuration information can indicate that for certain types of emails only the email title should be used in generating a content based ranking. Similarly if the body of an email is not used in generating a social ranking only the email header e.g. information identifying the sending and receiving parties can be provided to social ranking module . Thus control module can be configured to access configuration information associated with a particular type of electronic communication to determine which portion of an electronic communication should be provided to each ranking module.

While the functionality of electronic communication ranking module has been shown as being subdivided into particular modules in the example of it is noted that the functionality can be subdivided differently or not at all in other embodiments. Furthermore some of the functionality described herein may be omitted in other embodiments e.g. if only one type of electronic communication is to be ranked it may not be necessary to include the functionality to handle other types of electronic communications . Other embodiments may include other functionality instead of and or in addition to the functionality described above.

The method begins at when the author e.g. the sender of an email and recipients e.g. the recipients of an email or the parties who access a word processing document of an electronic communication are identified. Based upon the identified parties a social ranking is assigned to the electronic communication as shown at .

At a content based ranking is assigned to the electronic communication. This ranking is assigned based upon the content included within all or part of the electronic communication.

At the content based ranking and the social ranking are combined to generate a combined ranking. This ranking as well as the individual rankings generated at and can be stored in a ranking database along with information identifying the ranked electronic communication. Alternatively or additionally the electronic communication itself can be modified to include one or more of the rankings.

The method begins at when the social ranking module receives information identifying the organizational hierarchy. This hierarchy can be presented in a file or database that represents the hierarchy of parties e.g. employees officers and the like within an organization.

Rankings receiving and or sending for each party identified within the organizational hierarchy are initialized at . In this example each party is assigned both a sending ranking and a receiving ranking. The rankings can be initialized such that parties at the top of the hierarchy e.g. such as corporate officers receive high initial receiving and sending rankings while parties near the bottom of the hierarchy e.g. parties working in entry level positions receive low initial receiving rankings. Thus the initial rankings calculated at are based upon the parties status within the organization as identified by the organizational hierarchy.

The parties within the organization exchange emails or other electronic communications such as word processing documents instant messages voice mails and the like and these exchanges are tracked by the social ranking module e.g. by parsing the header fields within or other metadata associated with the communication . The social ranking module can monitor the exchange of communications by snooping or otherwise monitoring communication exchanges e.g. email traffic instant messaging traffic file access and the like within the organization.

Based upon the observed communication exchanges the receiving rank for each party identified within the organizational hierarchy is recalculated as shown at . For a particular party the new receiving rank is recalculated based upon the sending ranks of all parties that have provided communications to the party whose receiving rank is being recalculated. In one embodiment for example the new receiving rank can be based upon both the prior version of the receiving rank as well as a weighted average e.g. weighted based upon number of communications provided by each sending party of the sending parties sending ranks.

Based upon the observed communication exchanges the sending ranking of each party in the organizational hierarchy is also recalculated as shown at . The sending ranking of a party is calculated based upon the receiving rankings of parties with which the party communicates. For example if a party sends emails to several corporate officers the receiving rankings of the corporate officers is used to calculate the sending rank of the party that sent the emails.

If the sending and receiving rankings for each party have converged e.g. if for each party in the organizational hierarchy the sending and receiving rankings are the same or nearly the same as determined at a final ranking is calculated for each party e.g. based upon the converged sending and receiving ranking as shown at . For example if a given party has a sending ranking of 0.450 and a receiving ranking of 0.460 and convergence occurs when the two rankings differ by less than 0.02 the final ranking for that party can be calculated as 0.455 the average of the party s sending and receiving rankings. The final ranking calculated at can then be used to generate rankings of electronic communications sent or received by the ranked party.

If the rankings for each party have not yet converged operations and can be repeated. Based upon the sending rankings and the exchange of emails or other electronic communications new receiving rankings can be calculated for each party e.g. by re performing operation . In this iteration the new receiving ranking for a party is calculated based upon the sending rankings of all parties that have sent communications to the party. Thus the receiving ranking of a party that receives a significant number of emails from parties with high sending rankings can be increased.

In some embodiments the sending rankings and receiving rankings are computed at substantially the same time each iteration e.g. operations and are performed at substantially the same time . The exchange of email or other electronic communication exchange can be monitored throughout the performance of one or more other operations e.g. operations and of .

In one embodiment the parties are identified by email addresses and an Email Communication Network ECN is implemented to monitor the exchange of emails between email addresses. An ECN of an organization is a directed graph that has employees as nodes and email communication between any two nodes is represented as an edge. Incoming emails contribute to the in degree e.g. receiving ranking of a node and outgoing mails as out degree e.g. sending ranking of the node.

The method begins at when rankings for one or more electronic communications are received. In embodiments in which the content based rankings are dynamically developed individual users and enterprise personnel e.g. administrators legal personnel and the like can be asked to rank incoming emails manually. A user interface for allowing users to rank electronic communications can be provided within each client e.g. an email client used to access the electronic communications. These rankings are provided to the content ranking module along with the ranked electronic communications.

Using the rankings provided at the content ranking module identifies the ranking criteria using active learning methods e.g. Bayesian decision tree or committee based methods . These methods can involve supervision by an administrator who routinely monitors and or verifies the derived criteria.

At some point e.g. after an administrator has determined that the content ranking module has correctly derived rules based upon enterprise and or user provided rankings the content ranking module can also begin to automatically rank electronic communications based upon the criteria derived from the user provided rankings as shown at . If the automatically generated rankings achieve a desired level of confidence e.g. if the automatically generated rankings match the user provided rankings within a prespecified margin of error as determined at users can stop manually ranking the electronic communication and the content ranking module can assume full responsibility for generating rankings. If the desired level of confidence has not been achieved users can continue to manually rank communications and the content ranking module can continue to derive the ranking criteria by repeating operations and as shown in .

Determining whether the desired level of confidence has been achieved can be performed by comparing the automatically generated rankings of each electronic communication with the corresponding manually generated rankings. Alternatively only certain electronic communications are examined e.g. certain emails can be randomly selected for review to determine whether the desired level of confidence has been achieved .

In one embodiment there are several phases of operation in order to derive the criteria used to perform content based ranking. In the first phase enterprise personnel e.g. administrators and legal personnel perform operation by ranking incoming emails using enterprise policies and rules. Pre defined enterprise rules can also be applied at this stage. For example many enterprises already set rules on gateways or message transfer agents MTAs e.g. Microsoft Exchange for email classification and these rules can be used for initial rankings.

Once the content ranking module has derived the rules based upon the rankings provided by the enterprise personnel individual users can begin performing operation by generating rankings e.g. using a special interface provided in each email client . For example users can rank their incoming emails.

In the next phase the content ranking module begins performing operation by ranking electronic communications automatically. Initially the content ranking module can first verify each rank with a user or an administrator e.g. when a user selects to send an email the email client can interact with the content ranking module causing the content ranking module to generate a ranking and verifying that ranking with the user before actually sending the email . In some embodiments this phase may be omitted.

Other operations can be performed in addition to and or instead of those operations shown in and . Additionally the operations shown in each of and can be performed in different orders than shown in the figures.

As illustrated computing device includes one or more processors e.g. microprocessors Programmable Logic Devices PLDs or Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs configured to execute program instructions stored in memory . Memory can include various types of RAM Random Access Memory Read Only Memory ROM Flash memory Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS memory magnetic core memory and the like. Memory can include both volatile and non volatile memory. Computing device also includes one or more interfaces . Processor interface and memory are coupled to send and receive data and control signals by a bus or other interconnect.

Interface can include a network interface to various networks and or interfaces to various peripheral buses. For example interface can include a network interface that allows electronic communication ranking module to communicate with an archive server if the electronic communication ranking module is not integrated with the archive server or a messaging server. Thus interface can include an interface to a network such as network of . Interface can also include an interface to one or more storage devices e.g. archive media of . Thus electronic communication ranking module can write documents to an archive media via interface .

In this example program instructions and data executable to implement all or part of electronic communication ranking module are stored in memory . The program instructions and data implementing electronic communication ranking module can be stored on various computer readable media such as memory . In some embodiments such software is stored on a computer readable medium such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD hard disk optical disk tape device floppy disk and the like . In order to be executed by processor the instructions and data can be loaded into memory from the other computer readable medium. The instructions and or data can also be transferred to computing device for storage in memory via a network such as the Internet or upon a carrier medium.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with several embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the specific forms set forth herein. On the contrary it is intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as can be reasonably included within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

