---

title: Media management and tracking
abstract: A system is described for enabling a user to listen to songs on a network-enabled device, including an embedded receiver for receiving at least one song list, and for receiving music streamed over a wireless network, list navigation software, for navigating the at least one song list and selecting a desired song therefrom, using a keypad communicatively coupled with the network-enabled device, an embedded transmitter for transmitting a song selection to a tracking server, and an embedded audio player, for playing the music streamed to the network-enabled device over the wireless network, a tracking server, including a data store including at least one song list, a receiver for receiving a song selection from said network-enabled device, the song selection comprising an ID for a selected song, and a transmitter for transmitting the at least one song list to the network-enabled device, and for transmitting the received song selection to a media server, and a media server, including a data store including audio files for the songs listed in the song list, an audio streamer, a receiver for receiving an instruction from said tracking server to transmit the selected song to the network-enabled device, and a transmitter for streaming the selected song to the network-enabled device. A method and a computer-readable storage medium are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918195&OS=08918195&RS=08918195
owner: Catch Media, Inc.
number: 08918195
owner_city: Douglasville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061201
---
This application is a continuation in part of assignee s pending application U.S. Ser. No. 11 261 687 filed on Oct. 28 2005 entitled Method and System for Tracking and Managing Rights for Digital Music which is a continuation in part of assignee s application U.S. Ser. No. 10 893 473 filed on Jul. 16 2004 entitled Method and System for Managing Rights for Digital Music which is a continuation in part of assignee s pending application U.S. Ser. No. 10 829 581 filed on Apr. 21 2004 entitled Portable Music Player and Transmitter which is a continuation in part of assignee s application U.S. Ser. No. 10 336 443 filed on Jan. 2 2003 entitled Automatic Digital Music Library Builder now U.S. Pat. No. 7 191 193.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to rights management for use and transfer of digital music recordings.

Consumers are generally aware to some extent of copyright laws concerning digital recordings but there are no automatic features in place to assist consumers in abiding with them. For example a consumer who purchases a song on a CD or through a subscription with an Internet music sharing service such as Napster generally does not know if he is permitted to make personal copies of the song for himself on one or more of his computers or on one or more CDs or on one or more MP3 players.

Digital rights management DRM technology addresses this concern by encapsulating songs within a DRM wrapper. The DRM wrapper which is generally encrypted specifies whether or not a specific device has the necessary rights to play a specific song. Hardware or software within the player then enables or disables playing of the song accordingly. Generally DRM systems only enable playing of a song on a device if the owner of the device has purchased a license for the song. If the owner of the device has not purchased a license for the song and wishes to do so and if the device is connected via a computer network to a licensing authority referred to as a clearing house then the owner may purchase a license from the clearing house in which case the DRM wrapper is updated so as to reflect current ownership.

A disconnected device however generally cannot purchase such a license unless the disconnected device connects with a connected device that can access a clearing house. As such the disconnected device cannot play a song that is not licensed by the owner of the device when the owner is not located at a point of connection.

For marketing purposes it would be beneficial if disconnected devices could play trial versions of songs that are not licensed by the device owners and if such trial versions could be copied as trial versions from one disconnected device to another. The owners of the disconnected devices could then listen to the trial versions of the songs and afterwards if they wish to purchase licenses to the songs could do so by connecting their disconnected devices to a connected device at their convenience and purchasing licenses from a clearing house.

It would thus be beneficial if a merchandising system was in place to manage digital rights for songs that are obtained as trial versions copied from device to device and subsequently converted to fully licensed versions.

It would also be beneficial to track the history of license purchases within such a merchandising system as trial versions of songs are copied from device to device through a sharing chain of friends some of whom eventually purchase licenses to the trial versions. In particular tracking of licensing history would enable a profit sharing arrangement whereby a portion of the payment paid by a person along the sharing chain is allotted to the original clearing house or vendor from which a song was licensed.

Additionally it would be beneficial for an owner of digital music to be able to listen to his music on networked devices that do not store digital copies of the music itself. Such benefit would enable the owner to access his music while away from his home essentially anywhere The owner could then listen to his music on cell phones networked portable media players and public access devices such as media center devices in hotel rooms whether or not such devices belong to the owner.

Embodiments of the present invention concern a configurable method and system for managing copyright privileges when a digital work is copied or streamed from one device to another and for allowing the owner of a digital work to enjoy the work on a plurality of devices inside the owner s home and outside whether or not the devices belong to the owner. Embodiments of the present invention apply to many forms of digital copyright works including inter alia songs movies and pictures. The ensuing description refers primarily to digital songs for the sake of clarity.

In a general setting digital songs are i acquired from external sources including inter alia Internet music services such as iTunes and Napster CDs and other recording media music kiosks and broadcast music stations such as cable and satellite stations and thereafter ii copied between digital audio recorders and digital audio players. Transfer of songs may be likened in some respects to a virtual water distribution system with nodes and conduits wherein the nodes store water and the conduits transmit water from one node to another. External nodes represent music sources such as record stores kiosks and Internet music services and internal nodes represent audio recorders and players.

Within this paradigm of water distribution digital rights management concerns controlling valves that restrict the flow of water within the pipes and controlling access to the water in the nodes.

For one embodiment digital audio players are registered with either zero or one digital audio recorder. In other words a digital player cannot be registered with more than one recorder but one digital recorder can have multiple digital players registered therewith.

For one embodiment the label of a song is used to identify copyrights associated therewith. The Try Buy label is used for promotional or trial versions of songs which generally include an expiration event upon occurrence of which the song evaporates i.e. can no longer be played in its entirety. For example a listener may be enabled to play a Try Buy song for a limited number of times or for a limited time span. After the song has expired it cannot be played further. However the listener can generally purchase the song through an appropriate device including inter alia a kiosk a cellular phone or a PC computer connected to the Internet.

For one embodiment of the invention copyright management is achieved by i restricting a song from being copied from a source device to a target device and ii specifying the way a song is labeled within a target device when the song is copied from a source device to the target device based on the source device the target device the label of the song in the source device and based on whether or not the source and target device are commonly registered.

Further in an alternate embodiment of the invention copyright management may restrict the number of copies permitted to be made for a song resident on a source device. For example when a recorder is used to copy songs to a plurality of players up to three copies of a song may be permitted.

Thus it may be appreciated that embodiments of the invention enable audio device manufacturers to configure a flexible logic for digital rights management in accordance with legal requirements in their respective locales. Various such configurations are described in the detailed description hereinbelow.

Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in conjunction with third party digital rights management systems in order to comply with third party DRM rules and in order to ensure backward compatibility with third party players. As such embodiments of the present invention provide an enhancement to conventional DRM systems within conventional architectures.

Embodiments of the present invention may also be used advantageously for tracking usage and merchandising. Specifically a first user purchases a license to a digital work. Subsequently the digital work is copied from device to device along a sharing chain of friends one friend sharing with the next friend. The shared copies are Try Buy copies which can only be accessed in limited ways. Some or all of the friends along the chain may eventually purchase their copy of the digital work converting it from a Try Buy copy to an owned copy. Using an embodiment of the present invention when such a friend purchases a license to convert a shared Try Buy copy of the digital work into an owned copy information as to the original source of purchase as well as the friend s usage is tracked. This information can be used inter alia to allot a portion of the payment received from the friend to the original source of purchase and to aggregate usage and purchase statistics.

In distinction from embodiments of the present invention prior art digital rights managers do not include the feature of adapting labels from source label to target label when a song is copied from a source device to a target device. One such prior art digital rights manager is Microsoft Corporation s Windows Media Rights Manager which implements digital rights by encrypting audio files using keys and packaging the files with key IDs. In order to play the audio files a user obtains a license which contains a key to decrypt the file.

Another such prior art digital rights manager is Apple Corporation s iTunes rights manager which registers iPod music players with computers so that an iPod cannot download an MP3 song from a computer that it is not registered with.

Embodiments of the present invention may be used for enabling a mobile user who is away from home to access and navigate playlists of songs stored on his home PC or other home media device using his cellular telephone and to select songs for listening. The selected songs are then streamed to an embedded player in the user s cellular telephone upon demand from one or more media servers.

Embodiments of the present invention may also be used for programmed advertising. As part of an advertising campaign a sponsor distributes free portable media players or free songs to a targeted set of users. In addition audio files for advertisements are also distributed to the users media players as part of the campaign and programmed for automatic playback when conditions specified by the sponsor are satisfied for the players. Embodiments of the present invention provide a flexible interface for distributing songs to specific players and for associating one or more programmed advertisements with individual songs with groups of songs or with specific players.

There is thus provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a system for enabling a user to listen to songs on a network enabled device including a network enabled device including an embedded receiver for receiving at least one song list and for receiving music streamed over a wireless network list navigation software for navigating the at least one song list and selecting a desired song therefrom using a keypad communicatively coupled with the network enabled device an embedded transmitter for transmitting a song selection to a tracking server and an embedded audio player for playing the music streamed to the network enabled device over the wireless network a tracking server including a data store including at least one song list a receiver for receiving a song selection from said network enabled device the song selection comprising an ID for a selected song and a transmitter for transmitting the at least one song list to the network enabled device and for transmitting the received song selection to a media server and a media server including a data store including audio files for the songs listed in the song list an audio streamer a receiver for receiving an instruction from said tracking server to transmit the selected song to the network enabled device and a transmitter for streaming the selected song to the network enabled device.

There is further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for a network enabled device to play songs including transmitting a play request from a network enabled device to a tracking server receiving at least one song list from the tracking server providing a user interface that enables a user to navigate the at least one song list and to select a desired song using a keypad communicatively coupled with the network enabled device transmitting an ID of the selected song to the tracking server receiving streamed audio data for the selected song from a media server and playing the streamed audio data on an audio player embedded in the network enabled device.

There is yet further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for a tracking server to cause music to be streamed to a network enabled device including receiving a play request from a network enabled device sending at least one song list to the network enabled device in response to the received play request receiving a selection request from the network enabled device with an ID for a selected song and sending an instruction to a media server to stream the selected song to the network enabled device.

There is moreover provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a system for enabling a user to listen to songs on a network enabled device including a network enabled device including an embedded receiver for receiving music streamed over a wireless network list navigation software for navigating at least one song list and selecting a desired song therefrom using a keypad communicatively coupled with the network enabled device an embedded transmitter for transmitting the song selection to a tracking server and an embedded audio player for playing the music streamed to the network enabled device over the wireless network a tracking server including a receiver for receiving a song selection from the network enabled device the song selection comprising an ID for a selected song and a transmitter for transmitting the received song selection to a media server and a media server including a data store including audio files for the songs listed in the song list an audio streamer a receiver for receiving an instruction from said tracking server to transmit the selected song to the network enabled device and a transmitter for streaming the selected song to the network enabled device.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for a network enabled device to play songs including providing a user interface that enables a user to navigate at least one song list and to select a desired song using a keypad communicatively coupled with a network enabled device transmitting an ID of the selected song to a tracking server receiving streamed audio data for the selected song from a media server and playing the streamed audio data on an audio player embedded in the network enabled device.

There is further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for a tracking server to cause music to be streamed to a network enabled device including receiving a selection request from a network enabled device with an ID for a selected song and sending an instruction to a media server to stream the selected song to the network enabled device.

There is yet further provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a system for deploying advertisements on portable music players including a portable music player including a database of audio advertisements and playback rules therefor wherein playback rules are used to govern when to play advertisements an ad updater for periodically receiving advertisements and playback rules and an ad scheduler for scheduling playback of advertisements in accordance with their playback rules a host device that is periodically communicatively coupled with the portable music player including a database of audio advertisements and playback rules therefore an ad provisioner for transferring ads and playback rules to the portable music player when the portable music player is communicatively coupled with the host device an ad updater for receiving advertisements and playback rules from time to time and an advertising server that is communicatively coupled with the host device including a database of information about advertisers and their advertising campaigns and for storing audio advertisements distribution rules therefor and playback rules therefore an ad provisioner for transferring ads and playback rules to the host device and a web interface for receiving advertisements and playback rules for an advertising campaign from an advertiser s computer.

There is moreover provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a portable music player including a database of audio advertisements and playback rules therefor wherein the playback rules are used to govern when to play the advertisements and wherein each one of the playback rules includes a condition and an advertisement or a condition and a plurality of advertisements an ad updater for receiving advertisements and playback rules related to an advertising campaign an ad scheduler for periodically evaluating the playback rule conditions and for scheduling playback of the advertisements in accordance with the playback rules and a tracking engine for maintaining a history of advertisements played and for periodically uploading the history to a server computer and clearing the history thereafter.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a method for deploying advertisements within portable music players including uploading a plurality of audio advertisements and a plurality of playback rules to a server computer the plurality of advertisements and the plurality of playback rules being designated for deployment in a plurality of portable music players wherein playback rules are used to govern when to play advertisements transmitting the plurality of advertisements and the plurality of playback rules to a host device into which at least one of the plurality of portable music players is periodically docked transmitting at least one advertisement and at least one playback rule from the host device to each of at least one portable music players when such portable music player is docked in the host device periodically evaluating at least one playback rule in each of the plurality of portable music players and playing at least one advertisement according to the periodically evaluating in each of the plurality of portable music players.

Digital music players are proliferating as standalone consumer electronic devices such as MP3 players as bundled components within portable devices such as personal data assistants PDAs and cell phones and as home network appliances. Listeners typically build up their own personal libraries of digital songs which are stored on memory units such as hard disk drives and removable memory cards. Digital songs are typically acquired through the Internet via subscription services and a la carte purchases via peer to peer exchanges or by converting songs from a compact disc CD and importing them into an MP3 library. Acquiring digital music files may infringe copyrights unless the files are validly obtained through a service that pays royalties to the copyright holders.

Digital songs typically include audio data and auxiliary data referred to as meta data used to index the songs within the listener s library. For example within MP3 files meta data is accessed through an ID3Tag WMA files embed meta data within the files and both file types can embed meta data within the filenames themselves. By indexing the songs a listener can inspect his library search his library to access individual songs therein remove songs and create playlists. Typically audio players provide a user interface through which users view meta data.

Barring copyright issues building up a digital music library requires a lot of time and work. Typically a listener first searches the Internet for one or more songs of interest then identifies locations of the songs and then downloads them into a database associated with a media player. Songs are typically stored as digital files formatted in compliance with a standard format such as MP3 or WMA. Once the songs are downloaded the listener typically uses software such as Windows Media Player or Winamp to play the songs on a computer or alternatively he copies the songs onto a hardware device such as an iPod or MP3 player that plays the songs.

A shortcoming in the world of digital music is the great effort required to build custom music libraries at home. Often individuals spend nights on end downloading their favorite songs and building their own personal music libraries. An alternative is to purchase libraries that have been prepared by others but often someone else s library does not match another listener s taste and the listener prefers to collect his own favorite songs.

A popular source for a listener to hear his favorite songs is on music stations. Cable satellite broadcast and the Internet provide music channels for almost every genre of music classical music rock and roll jazz music of the 80 s etc. A listener can enjoy music according to his taste by subscribing to such broadcast services.

Embodiments of the present invention enable a listener to automatically copy and import songs that are broadcast from a music station into his digital music library along with the songs meta data required for indexing his library. Using an embodiment of the present invention a listener with practically no effort can automatically build up a large digital music library with tens of thousands of his choice of songs all properly indexed for search and retrieval. Moreover an additional feature of embodiments of the present invention enables the listener to select which songs from among those broadcast on the music stations are to be imported into his library based on one or more of criteria including inter alia genre song title artist album and length of song.

Copying songs that are broadcast from a music station is akin to copying television programs onto a VCR. Copyright law permits a consumer to copy television programs broadcast to his home onto his VCR. The technology for automatically copying songs however is more complex since raw audio recording from a music station does not provide the meta data necessary to identify such songs and incorporate them into a digital music library. Moreover each song has to be separated out from other songs since songs are played sequentially with overlapping on the music station generally without breaks in between.

Embodiments of the present invention concern a method and system for automatically building digital music libraries from music channels broadcast through cable and satellite stations. In an embodiment of the present invention broadcast songs are recorded into a digital music library along with meta data necessary for indexing and accessing each individual song and for display while the songs are being played. Using embodiments of the present invention the digital music library generated from the broadcast music serves as a large library of individual songs with full search and access capability.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a system that enables a listener to automatically digitally record broadcast songs into a digital music library and automatically index each recorded song according to genre song title artist and album title as described hereinbelow. Additionally embodiments of the present invention enable the listener to filter songs to be automatically recorded by specifying inter alia a genre song tile or artist instead of recording all of the broadcast songs. The listener need not be present while the system of the present invention is in operation. It may thus be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention enable automatic generation of large libraries of songs.

Embodiments of the present invention use a programmable device referred to herein as a Nest that can interface with computers with MP3 players and other digital music players and with other electronic devices that include MP3 players or other digital music players therewithin including inter alia cell phones PDAs home network appliances and Internet appliances. In a first embodiment the Nest is coupled to a satellite cable receiver in a second embodiment the Nest is coupled to a television in a third embodiment the Nest is coupled to various. external components via a USB and a Firewire connection.

In all embodiments the memory storing the digital music library can be either a large hard disk situated within the Nest itself or one or more smaller removable memory units such as compact disks and memory cards or a combination of hard disk and removable memory. The advantage of a large hard disk is that the listener s music library is consolidated into a single library that can be searched and accessed in its entirety. The advantage of removable memory units such as compact disks is that the listener can insert the disks into portable players such as MP3 players. Assuming that 40 songs on average require 128 MB of data and include one and a half hour s worth of listening a large 80 GB hard disk can hold a library of approximately 25 600 songs and a 640 MB compact disk can hold approximately 200 songs or about 7 hours worth of listening.

Reference is now made to which is a front view of a Nest in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Nest is shown with its front panel open. On the left side of the front panel are female left and right analog audio in connectors and and female analog video in connector preferably used for connecting auxiliary audio and video devices such as a CD player in order to add content into the Nest. On the right side of the front panel are female USB sockets and preferably used for connecting foreign MP3 players to the Nest a female Ethernet connector preferably for connecting the Nest to a computer network and a mini jack socket preferably used to provide analog stereo audio out for headphones.

In an embodiment of the present invention a Nest includes one or more exchange ports also referred to herein as cradles through which one or more hand held digital music players referred to herein as Eggs can be connected to the Nest for loading songs from a digital music library stored on the Nest thereto. Such exchange ports may be circular or oval ports into which Eggs are inserted. Thus it may be appreciated that Eggs may be charged up with songs while they are plugged into the cradles of the Nest.

Reference is now made to which is a side view of an Egg in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Egg is shown with a panel that displays meta data for a song currently being played. As can be seen in the meta data includes a title Blowing in the Wind an author Bob Dylan and an album Bob Dylan s Greatest Hits .

Reference is now made to which is a bottom view of the Egg of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The bottom of the Egg includes a female audio video connector preferably for transferring analog audio and analog video between the Egg and a Nest and a female USB connector preferably for transferring digital data between the Egg and a Nest between the Egg and a filling station kiosk and between the Egg and another Egg. Corresponding to connectors and the cradles of the Nest contain male analog audio video connectors and male USB connectors not shown in .

A typical usage scenario for a Nest and Egg is as follows. A listener sets his cable or satellite receiver box to a specific music channel preferably from a commercial free radio station such as The Music Choice and activates the Nest to capture songs from the music channel. The Nest automatically creates a digital music library and imports the broadcast songs therein. Thereafter the listener plugs an Egg into a cradle of the Nest and downloads selected songs from the music library onto the Egg. If the Nest is connected to the listener s speaker system then the listener may also pipe music from the Nest into speakers in various rooms. If the Nest is connected to a home network the listener may stream audio to a computer that is authorized to work with the Nest.

In addition to a Nest being able to download songs to the Egg when the Egg is connected to the Nest the Nest is also able to remove songs stored in the Egg. Thus if the Egg storage is full the Nest can remove songs from the Egg in order for the Egg to download a new set of songs.

Eggs of embodiments of the present invention may receive digital music from other sources in addition to the Nest. Thus the Eggs may be compatible with kiosks such as music kiosks located in music distribution stores used for listening to songs prior to purchase and for subsequent purchase. For one embodiment when an Egg is connected to a Nest the digital music received from other devices and stored within the Egg can be archived on the Nest.

It may further be appreciated that an Egg may receive control commands through its USB connector. Specifically 

Reference is now made to which is an illustration of a graphical user interface GUI for copying songs from the Nest of into the Egg of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The GUI shown in is preferably displayed on a television or other display device connected to the Nest and interacted with through use of a remote control device such as an infra red control unit. As such the GUI of is intended for navigation with simple directional buttons and a select button.

The GUI shown in is used to organize a digital music library and create playlists i.e. sequences of songs for playing from the Nest or for copying to an Egg for playback from the Egg.

Embodiments of the present invention enable a customer to listen to music on his Nest from sources other than the Nest itself including inter alia the Nest s associated Eggs and the customer s cell phone that has an embedded audio player. In this regard reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram of a tracking system used to stream a customer s music to the customer s cell phone in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in is a customer PC which includes a library of the customer s music files and meta data describing the music files and the customer s playlists. The customer uses the present invention to register his PC and his cell phone with a media tracking server . Cell phone includes an embedded digital audio player through which the customer can listen to music. Specifically PC transmits customer information to media tracking server including inter alia i customer name ii customer cell phone handset type cell provider and phone number and iii PC ID. Additionally a customer may register his entire household and submit a household name along with multiple customer names cell phones and PC IDs.

Access software installed on PC then scans PC to generate a list of IDs of songs resident on PC . Access software also scans PC for player databases such as iTunes databases Windows Media Player databases Napster databases and other such player databases. Access software also scans PC for podcasts that the customer subscribes to and Internet radio station preferences. With each song ID access software also generates a song status including inter alia digital rights management data for the song and time constraints for the song.

Access software identifies those of the customer s songs that are eligible for tracking and verifies that the digital rights managed songs have valid licenses. For a song that access software does not recognize access software sends a snippet of the song to a song database such as a Gracenote database which identifies the song from its snippet.

Access software transmits the customer s song information to media tracking server which registers the customer the customer s cell phone and the customer s song information in its data store. Access software may additionally transmit the songs themselves to media tracking server . In such case media tracking server maintains a copy of the user s songs or further transmits the songs to media streaming server or both. Media tracking server or media steaming server or both thus act as a remote backup of the user s songs.

Also shown in is a media streaming server which contains a large database archive of audio files including audio files for the songs referenced in media tracking server .

Subsequent to registration the customer can use navigation software on his cell phone to access his songs. Specifically the customer issues a play request from cell phone which is transmitted to a cell tower .

Cell tower is used in to represent both a cell tower and a carrier back end. Generally a cell tower forwards requests it receives to a cell carrier backend and the carrier back end forwards them on. More generally cell phone and cell tower may operate with any wireless network including inter alia cellular networks and wi max networks.

Cell tower forwards the request to media tracking server which validates the customer s account using an account validator . If the customer s account is validated media tracking server returns meta data describing the customer s song collections and playlists to cell tower . Specifically media tracking server returns inter alia ID s of the customer s songs each song with corresponding meta data including name album artist and genre and the customer s playlists each playlist with corresponding meta data including names and song IDs.

Cell tower forwards the meta data to cell phone software which enables the customer to use the keypad of his cell phone to navigate his collections of songs and playlists and to select a desired song for listening. An ID for the song selected by the customer is sent from cell phone to cell tower and forwarded to media tracking server . Media tracking server verifies that the customer s digital rights management license for the selected song is currently valid using a song DRM license validator . If the license for the selected song is currently valid then media tracking server sends an instruction to media streaming server designating the song to be streamed and the cell phone destination.

In response media streaming server streams the song to cell tower which in turn forwards the song to cell phone audio player for the customer s listening enjoyment. If a remote backup of the user s songs is maintained on media tracking server as described hereinabove then the remote backup copy of the user s selected song is streamed from media tracking server to cell tower which in turn forwards the song to cell phone audio player .

Media tracking server logs tracking information indicating that the designated customer is listening to the designated song within a tracking history. Music streams may be cached on the customer s cell phone as appropriate for subsequent access.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for streaming a customer s music to the customer s cell phone in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The flowchart of is divided into five columns. The first column on the left indicates operations performed by a customer s personal computer such as PC running access software . The second column indicates operations performed by the customer s cell phone such as cell phone that includes an embedded audio player and navigator software . The third column indicates operations performed by a cell tower and a carrier backend such as cell tower and carrier backend . The fourth column indicates operations performed by a tracking server such as media tracking server . The fifth column indicates operations performed by a media server such as media streaming server .

At operation the customer s PC registers itself with the tracking server. Access software running on the PC scans the PC and generates a list of song IDs and playlists into which the customer has organized his songs. At operation the PC uploads the list of the customer s songs and his playlists to the tracking server together with information identifying the customer and the customer s cell phone. The PC may additionally upload the customer s songs themselves to the tracking server as described hereinabove. At operation the tracking server registers the customer and the customer s cell phone and stores the list of the customer s songs and his playlists in its data store. At this stage the PC has been registered with the tracking system and the customer is then able to listen to his songs on his cell phone.

At operation the customer issues a play request on his cell phone. At operation the cell phone transmits the play request to the cell tower using a wireless transmission protocol such as GPRS 3G. At operation the cell tower receives the play request and forwards it to the tracking server via the wireless protocol. At operation the tracking server receives the play request and validates the customer s account. If the customer account is successfully validated then at operation the tracking server sends the customer s song collections and playlist information to the cell tower via the wireless protocol. Otherwise the tracking server denies the customer s play request. At operation the cell tower forwards the customer s song collections and playlist information to the cell phone via the wireless protocol.

Alternatively the customer s playlist information may be cached in the customer s cell phone thereby obviating the need to perform operations . Such cached playlist information is periodically refreshed to ensure that it accurately reflects the content and licenses on the customer s PC. The refresh operation may be performed with or without user intervention.

At operation the customer uses the keypad of his cell phone to navigate his playlists and select a desired song for listening. The user s selection is then transmitted to the cell tower via the wireless protocol.

At operation the cell tower receives the user s song selection which it then forwards to the tracking server. At operation the tracking server validates the customer s digital rights management license for the selected song to ensure that the user has the necessary license to play the song. The tracking server may have the customer s license stored therein for examination or else query the customer s PC to determine validity of the customer s license. In the latter case the tracking server denies the customer s play request if the customer s PC is not connected.

If the customer s license for the selected song is valid then at operation the tracking server sends instructions to the media server to stream the selected song to the customer s cell phone. Otherwise the tracking server denies the customer s play request. The tracking server may also log the event that the designated customer is listening to the selected song within a tracking history.

At operation the media server receives the instruction from the tracking server and initiates streaming of the selected song to the cell tower. At operations and the cell tower receives the streamed data and forwards it to the customer s cell phone for his listening enjoyment. After the song finishes playing the customer may return to operation and select another song.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art operation ensures that the cell phone access enabled by the present invention does not enable a customer to circumvent digital rights management license restrictions.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an Egg is registered with at most one Nest and only Eggs registered with a Nest have the right to check out non promotional songs therefrom as described hereinbelow. Typically a Nest will have multiple Eggs registered with the Nest.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a song within a Nest or an Egg is labeled as Purchased Recorded or Try Buy . A Purchased song is one that is paid for by a consumer. Purchased songs include inter alia songs purchased through an Internet service such as iTunes or Napster songs purchased through a kiosk and songs copied and converted ripped to a format such as MP3 from a CD that is purchased. Recorded songs include songs recorded for a consumer from a cable or satellite music station. Try Buy songs are promotional or trial versions of songs that are provided to a consumer for free and eventually expire. If the consumer wishes to continue to listen to such songs he must obtain a Purchased or Recorded version of the song.

Expiration of a Try Buy song may occur inter alia after a fixed time period such as thirty days or after a fixed number of playbacks of the song. Upon expiration a Try Buy song may cease to play altogether or may play only a down sampled version of the song or a header of the song or may instead play a message explaining how to purchase the song or otherwise enable purchase of the song.

Preferably the label of a Try Buy song includes a URL or other such identifier for one or more web sites that serve as a clearinghouse through which the song can be purchased.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the Nest includes a list of songs that are already contained within the Nest and an auxiliary list of songs that are not already contained within the Nest. For example whenever a song from a specific album by a specific artist is contained within the Nest the auxiliary list includes other songs from the same album or other songs by the same artist. Songs that have been recorded within the Nest are labeled as Recorded. Other songs not contained within the Nest can preferably be downloaded to the Nest as trial Try Buy versions upon request by a consumer. After listening to a Try Buy version of a song the consumer may purchase the song using the Nest and the purchased song is then labeled as Purchased. Such labeling of a song as Recorded Purchased or Try Buy serves to identify the copyrights associated with the song.

Preferably when a song is copied from one device to another device where the two devices are registered with one another such as from a Nest to an Egg that is registered with the Nest or from an Egg to a Nest that the Egg is registered with the label of the song is maintained i.e. the label of the song on the target device is set to the label of the song on the source device. For example if a Try Buy song is copied from a Nest to an Egg that is registered with the Nest and then to another Egg that is also registered with the same Nest then the song is labeled as Try Buy on the two Eggs. Similarly if an Egg is used to purchase a song from a kiosk and the song is subsequently copied to a Nest that the Egg is registered with then the song is labeled as Purchased on the Egg and on the Nest.

In an embodiment of the present invention when a song is copied from one device to another device where the two devices are not registered with one another such as from a Nest to an Egg or from an Egg to a Nest where the Egg is not registered with the Nest then regardless of the label of the song on the source device the song is labeled as Try Buy on the target device.

The logic of TABLE I assumes that any two devices can determine whether or not they are commonly registered. This capability can be achieved for example if the registration information is built into a Nest and an Egg at the time of manufacture.

In addition to the logic of TABLE I the label of a song within a Nest or an Egg is changed from Try Buy to Purchased if a user purchases the song from a clearinghouse using the Nest or the Egg respectively.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the Nest can directly determine whether an Egg is registered with it but an Egg cannot directly determine whether it is registered with a Nest or whether it and another Egg are registered to the same Nest. This occurs for example if an Egg has the capability of registering itself with any one of a plurality of Nests after it is manufactured. In this latter case the logic of TABLE I is modified so that whenever a song is copied from a source Egg to a target Egg the song is labeled as Try Buy in the target Egg. Accordingly the copyright labeling of a song on a target device follows TABLE II.

In this alternative embodiment an Egg that is registered with a first Nest may be re registered with a second Nest. In such case the Egg is no longer registered with the first Nest. Preferably there is a limit to the number of times an Egg can be re registered and after an Egg re registers itself a maximum number of times it is blocked from further re registration.

In a second alternative embodiment of the present invention the distinction between Purchased and Recorded songs is ignored and both are identified as Owned songs. In this second alternative embodiment the copyright labeling of a song on a target device follows TABLE III.

In yet a third alternative embodiment of the present invention copying of songs from a Nest to multiple Eggs each of which is registered with the Nest is restricted. This third alternative embodiment has a more elaborate logic than the preferred and first and second alternative embodiments. In order to best describe this logic the terms checking out and checking in of songs are used as follows. When an Egg is connected to a Nest in order to download songs from the Nest to the Egg this is referred to herein as checking out of songs. When an Egg is connected to a Nest in order to remove songs stored in the Egg this is referred to herein as checking in of songs.

Often the same song can be broadcast multiple times from a cable or satellite music station while the Nest is operational to record the broadcast songs. For one embodiment of the present invention the Nest stores a count for each Recorded song which is incremented when the Nest encounters a broadcast song that has already been recorded onto the Nest archive. Such count thus corresponds to the total number of times the Recorded song has been broadcast while the Nest was recording and is denoted henceforth as max permitted copies. For example if a Recorded song is re played five times on the Music Channel while the Nest is recording from the Music Channel then max permitted copies 5 for such song.

The max permitted copies count for a Recorded song is used to restrict the number of different Eggs that the Nest allows to check out the song. For example if max permitted copies 5 for a Recorded song then at most five different Eggs can check out the song from the Nest. That is for each Recorded song in its archive the Nest stores a count for each song which is incremented when an Egg checks out the song. Such count corresponds to the number of Eggs that have checked out the song and is denoted henceforth as number copies checked out. For example if three Eggs have checked out the same Recorded song from the Nest then number copies checked out 3 for such song.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention when an Egg checks in a Recorded song with the Nest thereby removing the song from the Egg the number copies checked out count is decremented. For example if number copies checked out 3 for a Recorded song and an Egg that checked out the song subsequently checks in the song then number copies checked out is decremented to 2 for such song.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for tracking the number of times the same song is broadcast while the Nest of is recording music in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At operation the Nest identifies a song being broadcast from a cable or satellite station that is currently being recorded by the Nest. At operation the Nest determines whether or not the song is already stored within the Nest s digital archive. If so then at operation the Nest increments max permitted copies by one. Otherwise at operation the Nest initializes max permitted copies 1 for the song and number copies checked out 0 for the song. At operation the Nest stores the Recorded song and its meta data within the Nest s digital archive.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for checking out Recorded songs from the Nest of to the Egg of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At operation an Egg that is connected to a cradle in a Nest requests to copy a Recorded song from the Nest to the Egg. At operation the Nest determines whether or not the Egg is registered with the Nest. If so then at operation the Nest determines whether number copies checked out is less than max permitted copies for the requested song. If so then at operation the Nest increments number copies checked out for the song by one and at operation the Nest permits the Egg to copy the song from the Nest to the Egg.

If at operation the Nest determines that the Egg is not registered with the Nest or if at operation the Nest determines that number copies checked out is equal to max permitted copies then the Egg s request for the Recorded song is denied at operation . Alternatively the Recorded song may be copied onto the Egg as a trial version and labeled Try Buy.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for checking in songs from the Egg of to the Nest of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. If a song labeled Try Buy is checked in from an Egg to a Nest then the song is also labeled Try Buy on the Nest.

If a song labeled Recorded is checked in from an Egg to a Nest then at operation an Egg connected to a cradle in the Nest requests to check in the Recorded song. At operation the Nest determines whether or not the Egg is registered with the Nest. If so then at operation the Nest determines whether or not the song already resides within the Nest s digital archive. If so then at operation the Nest decrements number copies checked out for the song by one and at operation the Nest instructs the Egg to erase the song from the Egg.

If at operation the Nest determines that the Egg is not registered with the Nest than the Egg s request to check in the song is denied at operation . Alternatively the song may be copied onto the Nest as a trial version and labeled Try Buy. If at operation the Nest determines that the song does not currently reside within its digital archive then this indicates that the Egg obtained the song from another source such as from a kiosk. As such at operation the Nest initializes max permitted copies 1 for the song and number copies checked out 0 for the song. At operation the Nest copies the song and its meta data from the Egg into the Nest s digital archive.

When a Recorded song is copied from a first Egg to a second Egg in this embodiment the song is labeled as Try Buy on the second Egg even if the first and second Egg are both registered to the same Nest.

Purchased songs may also be restricted for copying to multiple Eggs with similar logic by setting max permitted copies 1.

In general it may now be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the present invention supports a general digital rights configuration by means of rules that specify whether or not a song residing on a source device has requisite permission for copying to a target device and if so how the song should be labeled when copied to the target device. Such rules may be embodied within functions

srcDeviceType indicates the type of the source device in which the digital song resides including inter alia Nest and Egg and

trgtDeviceType indicates the type of the target device onto which the digital song is to be copied including inter alia Nest and Egg 

srcLabel indicates the label of the song on the source device including inter alia Recorded Purchased and Try Buy or alternatively Owned and Try Buy and

trgtLabel indicates the label of the song on the target device including inter alia Recorded Purchased and Try Buy or alternatively Owned and Try Buy and where 

mayBeCopied indicates whether or not the song may be copied from the source device to the target device.

More generally as described hereinabove the functions mayBeCopied and trgtLabel may have additional parameters max permitted copies and number copies checked out 

where max permitted copies and number copies checked out are both song and device specific parameters 

max permitted copies indicates the maximum number of copies of the song that are permitted from the device and

number copies checked out indicates the current number of copies of the song that have been made from the device.

It may be appreciated by those skilled in the art that alternatively the functions mayBeCopied and trgtLabel may be embodied as tables or other data structures.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram of a digital rights management system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in is a source device including a database manager and a rights manager . Database manager preferably controls a database that stores digital songs and meta data associated therewith. Preferably the meta data includes a label for each song indicating whether the song is Purchased Recorded or Try Buy as described hereinabove. Optionally the meta data may also include max permitted copies and number copies checked out for one or more songs. The songs their labels and their max permitted copies and number copies checked out parameters are accessible through database manager .

It may be appreciated by those skilled in the art that digital songs and their meta data may be stored in one or more database tables within database that can be joined. Alternatively the binary song data may be stored in memory locations outside of database and pointed to by address entries in database . It may also be appreciated that database may instead be structured as a plurality of databases.

Rights manager determines whether or not a song resident on source device may be copied to a specified target device such as target device . If copying of the song is permitted then rights manager further determines a label to be used for the song on the target device referred to as the target label. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention rights manager bases its determination on i the type of source device ii the type of target device iii the label of the song on source device and iv the max permitted copies and number copies checked out parameters for the song on source device . Rights manager preferably implements functions such as mayBeCopied and trgtLabel described hereinabove.

After rights manager determines the target label it transmits the song and the target label to target device . Target device preferably adds the song to its database and labels the song in database according to the target label.

Also shown in is a clearing house for purchasing songs. Source device and target device may purchase songs directly from clearing house . For songs not currently resident on source device or target device clearing house sends the songs to the device that purchases them. For songs currently resident on source device or target device labeled Try Buy clearing house sends an authorization to source database manager or target database manager to change the label of the songs from Try Buy to Purchased. Clearing house preferably includes a transaction processor which enables a user to purchase rights to songs and verifies the user s payment. Upon completion of a user s purchase of a song by transaction processor clearing house sends the songs to the user s device or sends an authorization to the user s device to change the label of the song as appropriate.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention clearing house also freely distributes Try Buy versions of songs which can be converted to Purchased versions at a later date if a user so desires.

For one embodiment clearing house is administered by an entity that has distribution privileges for the songs it sells such as a cable or satellite company.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flow chart for a digital rights management method in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As can be seen is divided into two columns the leftmost column indicating operations performed by a source audio device such as source device and the rightmost column indicating operations performed by a target audio device such as target device .

At operation the target device requests a song to be copied from the source device. At operation the source device receives the request and identifies the target device. In particular the source device determines the type of the target device and whether or not the source and target device are registered with one another.

At operation the source device determines the label for the requested song and the max permitted copies and number copies checked out parameters for the requested song. Preferably this information is contained within a source device database such as database . At operation the source device determines whether or not the target device has permission to copy the song. Preferably such determination is made by a rights manager within the source device such as rights manager . If it is determined at operation that the target device does not have permission to copy the song from the source device then at operation the source device denies the copy request. Otherwise if it is determined at operation that the target device does have permission to copy the song from the source device then at operation the source device determines how to label the song within the target device. Preferably such determination is also made by a rights manager such as rights manager .

At operation the source device transmits the requested song and its label to the target device and at operation the target device copies the requested song to its database and labels it accordingly.

In reading the above description persons skilled in the art will realize that there are many apparent variations that can be applied to the methods and systems described. Thus the configurable logic described hereinabove for songs and audio devices is applicable as well to movies and video devices and to other types of media and media devices.

Transfer of songs from source devices to target devices and from clearinghouses to devices may be performed in batches of songs such as entire albums as well as for single songs. In addition devices may be hot synched to one another. For example an Egg may be hot synched to a Nest using wired or wireless communication so that the Nest is updated periodically with the songs in the Egg.

Reference is now made to which are simplified illustrations of a first consumer use case of acquiring a song in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in a consumer downloads a trial version of a song onto his Egg from a McMusic kiosk located within a McDonald s store . The song is labeled Try Buy and consumer has limited rights to play the song for a one week trial period. Subsequently as shown in consumer decides to purchase the song for 1.00 from a clearinghouse via wireless communication. As a result of the purchase the song is re labeled as Purchased in Egg and consumer is granted full rights to the song.

Also shown in is a pie chart illustrating how the 1.00 of revenue for the song is allocated between the content owner the wireless provider McDonald s and the owner of the present invention as described hereinbelow.

Reference is now made to which are simplified illustrations of a second consumer use case of acquiring a song in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in a consumer downloads a trial version of a song onto his Egg from a Starbuck s Sounds music kiosk located within a Starbuck s store . The song is labeled Try Buy and consumer has limited rights to play the song for a one week trial period. Subsequently as shown in consumer decides to purchase the song for 1.00 from a McMusic kiosk located within a McDonald s store . As a result of the purchase the song is re labeled as Purchased in Egg and consumer is granted full rights to the song.

Also shown in is a pie chart illustrating how the 1.00 of revenue for the song is allocated between the content owner Starbuck s McDonald s and the owner of the present invention as described hereinbelow.

Reference is now made to B and C which are simplified illustrations of a third consumer use case of acquiring a song in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in a consumer records a song from a DirectTV broadcast music station onto her Nest while enjoying home entertainment on her television . The recorded song is labeled as Recorded and consumer has corresponding rights to the song. Consumer copies the song from her Nest onto her Egg .

Subsequently as shown in consumer meets a friend namely consumer who expresses interest in the song. Consumer then copies the song from her Egg onto his Egg . Although the song is labeled as Recorded on Egg the song is labeled as Try Buy on Egg . As such consumer only has limited rights to play the song for a one week trial period.

Subsequently as shown in consumer decides to purchase the song which he does for 1.00 via a music kiosk located in a Best Buy store . After purchasing the song the song is re labeled from Try Buy to Purchased within Egg as a result of which consumer then has full rights to the song.

Also shown in is a pie chart indicating allocation of the 1.00 purchase price for the song between the content owner DirectTV Best Buy and the owner of the present invention as described hereinbelow.

Implementation of the Present Invention in Conjunction with Conventional Digital Rights Management Systems

The digital rights management of the present invention can be implemented in conjunction with a third party DRM method or system. Conventional DRM systems typically allow usage of music on a disconnected mobile device but do not allow sharing from one disconnected device to another. With conventional DRM systems if a disconnected mobile device receives music for which it does not have a valid license it is not able to play the music and will not be granted a license until it connects to a license server usually by docking to a personal computer.

In distinction using embodiments of the present invention music may be shared from a first consumer s Egg to a second consumer s Egg and the second consumer is granted limited Try Buy access to the music with an option to purchase the music.

If a conventional DRM wrapper is removed from digital music even if it is replaced with another DRM wrapper then typically conventional players will not be able to play the music at all. As such embodiments of the present invention preserve the conventional DRM wrapper thus ensuring backward compatibility.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified illustration of a workflow for implementing digital rights management in conjunction with a third party DRM system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in is a first copy of a digital work stored in a user s Nest. The copy includes a digital audio portion which has been licensed by the user and a third party DRM wrapper specifying unlimited play for the user s nest only.

When the user copies the digital work from his Nest copy to his Egg a second copy of the digital work is created. The second copy includes a digital audio portion preferably substantially similar to portion and a third party DRM wrapper . However the third party DRM wrapper has been modified so as to specify unlimited play on all eggs with a prescribed timeout such as a two week timeout. In addition an auxiliary DRM wrapper is added to the second copy specifying unlimited play on the user s Egg and the ability to generate limited play licenses for other devices.

When the user shares the digital work with his friend a third copy of the digital work is created as the digital work is copied from the user s Egg copy to his friend s Egg . The third copy includes a digital audio portion preferably substantially similar to portion and a third party DRM wrapper that is substantially identical to the third party digital wrapper from the second copy . The third copy also includes an auxiliary DRM wrapper but in distinction to DRM wrapper DRM wrapper specifies limited play on the friend s Egg and the ability to generate limited play licenses for other devices.

When the friend copies the digital work from the friend s Egg copy to the friend s Nest a fourth copy of the digital work is created. The fourth copy includes a digital audio portion substantially similar to portion and a third party DRM wrapper specifying limited play on the friend s Nest only. It will be noted that the auxiliary DRM layer is removed in copy . As such the music on the friend s Nest can be played by a conventional player.

It may be appreciated in that the auxiliary DRM wrappers and instead of being stored within various copies of the digital work may instead be stored in separate files associated within the copies of the digital work or may alternatively be stored in a database table having a primary key that serves as an identifier for a copy of the digital work. Similarly the conventional third party DRM wrappers and may also be stored in separate files or within a database table.

As illustrated in B and C embodiments of the present invention has application to usage tracking for purposes of revenue sharing or aggregation of statistics. Licenses for digital music may be purchased through several channels including inter alia

Embodiments of the present invention are advantageous for tracking the following information for songs 

Reference is now made to which is a simplified workflow for usage and merchandising tracking in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in is a first copy of a digital work that is purchased by user A on user A s Nest. User A may have purchased the digital work for example over the Internet through a licensing authority or on a CD at a retail store. Copy includes a digital audio portion and a record including user A s purchase information and user A s usage data on user A s Nest.

When user A copies the digital work from his Nest to his Egg a second copy of the digital work is created. Copy includes a digital audio portion substantially similar to digital audio portion and a record including user A s purchase information and user A s usage data on user A s Nest and user A s Egg.

When user A shares the digital work with user B a third copy of the digital work is created. Copy is a Try Buy copy since user B has not yet purchased a license for the digital work. Copy includes a digital audio portion substantially similar to digital audio portion and a record including user A s purchase information and user B s usage data on user B s Egg.

When user B copies the digital work from user B s Egg to user B s Nest a fourth copy of the digital work is created. Copy includes a digital audio portion substantially similar to digital audio portion and a record . When user B subsequently purchases a license for the digital work record is updated to reflect user A s purchase data user B s purchase data and user B s usage data on user B s Egg and user B s Nest.

It may thus be appreciated that for the purpose of merchandising a portion of user B s purchase price may be paid to the fulfiller from which user A purchased the digital work. More generally embodiments of the present invention can be used to track a purchase of a digital work along a sharing chain back to an original fulfiller from which the digital work was purchased and a portion of the purchase prices along the sharing chain can be allotted to the original fulfiller.

It may be appreciated in that the records and instead of being stored within various copies of the digital work may instead be stored in separate files associated within the copies of the digital work or may alternatively be stored in a database table having a primary key that serves as an identifier for a copy of the digital work.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an application programming interface API for Eggs is provided in order for third parties to use the tracking features of the present invention. Inter alia the Egg API includes the following functions.

Embodiments of the present invention include an advertising and deployment component that provides a wide range of advertising opportunities for sponsors. Reference is now made to which is a simplified block diagram of a system for deployment of advertisements in customer Egg players in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Shown in are three primary components namely i a portable player such as an Egg with a playback engine ii a host device such as a Nest a kiosk or a PC computer and iii an advertising server . The connection between Egg and host device is generally via a docked connection when Egg is docked into a cradle of host device . The connection between host device and advertising server is generally a remote connection via a cable network a satellite network a cellular network or via the Internet.

Briefly advertiser computers such as advertisers and upload ads distribution rules and playback rules to advertising server . Playback rules govern when advertisements are to be played. Distribution rules govern the process of moving ads from advertising server to appropriate players . Distribution rules specify relationships between ads and content so that promotional content is associated with one or more desired ads. Distribution rules are also used to specify relationships between ads and player types so that a targeted set of players receive specific advertisements. Advertising server transmits the ads and rules to host device for deployment in players when the players connect to the host device. Advertiser computers and are generally connected to advertising server via the Internet.

Advertisers may sponsor songs or Egg players themselves with pre loaded content and with sponsored branding on their cases. Advertisers may distribute sponsored content to consumers Eggs along with ads. An ad management interface provides a web interface through which a sponsor manages ads that are deployed in consumers Eggs . Ad reporting metric interface provides a web interface through which a sponsor receives tracking information including inter alia how many ad impressions were generated.

Ad management interface gives the sponsor much flexibility in controlling his advertising. The sponsor can use ad management interface to submit ads to remove ads to update ads and to insert new ads and to submit sponsored music content to remove sponsored music content to update sponsored music content and to insert new sponsored content. The sponsor can also use ad management interface to define rules in terms of conditions that trigger the ads to be played and to designate which rules are to be used for which sponsored Eggs as described in detail hereinbelow. When Customers sponsored Eggs are connected to a host device ads and sponsored content and rules are transferred to the Eggs. Conversely statistical information about ads that the customers heard on their Eggs is transferred to advertising server .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a ad may be designated so that a customer cannot fast forward through the ad or skip the ad and so that a customer cannot delete the ad from his Egg player without losing valuable content.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an advertiser may distribute Eggs with branded casing and with pre loaded music to customers as part of an advertising campaign. For example the advertiser may distribute the Eggs at a sponsored event such as at a concert or at a sports competition. Advertising server displays information about the campaign to the sponsor in ad management interface through which the advertiser manages his campaign adding new ads and deploying new content to customers who received their Eggs through the campaign.

For deployment of ads an advertiser or uploads the ads he wants to use in the advertising campaign to advertisement server groups the ads into ad groups defines rules specifying events that trigger playing of the ads and activates the ads and their rules for deployment to the customers Eggs. For deployment of music content the advertiser uploads the music he wants to use in the advertising campaign selects one or more rules to use with the music content and activates the content and its rules for deployment to the sponsored customers Eggs .

An embodiment of the present invention uses five types of objects namely i advertisements ii ad groups iii rules iv content and v campaigns all as described in detail hereinbelow with reference to TABLES IV XII. Objects are reusable so that e.g. one advertisement can be used in multiple ad groups one ad group can be used in multiple rules and one rule can be used in multiple campaigns. As such each object need only be created once and can be reused with other objects. Each object as its own section in ad management interface where the advertiser is able to add modify and delete instances of the object.

An advertisement object includes an audio file with a jingle or spoken words or both that is to be played when an appropriate event occurs or a video file for video capable Eggs . In addition to the audio file the advertisement object includes meta data about the ad such as whether to play the ad before during or after a song and information to display on the Egg s LCD screen while the ad is playing. The advertisement object section in ad management interface enables the advertiser to upload new ads to edit current ads and to delete old ads. TABLE IV indicates some data members of an advertising object.

An ad group object is used to group ads together and is useful in associating one rule with multiple ads. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention each ad in an ad group is assigned a probability frequency between 0 and 1 the frequencies adding up to one. The frequency assigned to an ad within an ad group determines the percentage of time that ad is played with a rule within the ad group is invoked. TABLE V indicates some data members of an ad group object and TABLE VI indicates some data members of individual entries within an ad group object.

A rule object is used to prescribe the conditions under which an ad or an ad group is played. A rule object includes a condition specifying when an ad should be played and an ad or an ad group specifying which ads to play when the condition is satisfied. A rule object is of the general form

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention rules are assigned priorities which are used to determine while rule to execute in case two or more rule conditions are satisfied at once. A rule can also specify if another ad should be played after its ad is played.

A rule condition may include logical combinations of individual comparisons and tests. Individual comparisons and tests include inter alia

Each of the above comparisons and tests are made a run time i.e. at song play time. Each comparison and test evaluates to true or false and multiple comparisons and tests can be logically combined to form a complex advertising rule condition. TABLE VII indicates some data members of a rule object.

A content object represents new media that an advertiser wants to offer to a customer. Associated with the content is a set of rules that are also sent to the customer along with the content. The content object section of ad management interface enables the advertiser to upload a new song to set its ownership to Owned or to Try Buy and to select one or more ad rules. TABLE VIII indicates some data members of a content object and TABLE IX indicates joining of content with rules.

A campaign object is used to deploy content and rules. An advertiser sets up a campaign for each group of media players that the advertiser distributes such as one group of media players for a concert tour campaign and another group of media players for a basketball team campaign. Each Egg player that the advertiser distributes is associated with an appropriate campaign. As such the advertiser can deploy ads and rules to a large targeted group of customers at once. The campaign object section of ad management interface enables advertisers to activate pre defined rules and pre uploaded content for a specific campaign. An advertiser may have multiple campaigns and may re use the same rules and content for two or more campaigns. TABLE X indicates some data members of a campaign object TABLE XI indicates some data members of individual advertising content within a campaign object and TABLE XII indicates some data members of individual rules within a campaign object.

After an advertiser deploys a campaign advertising server tracks the campaign by monitoring inter alia the following statistics 

Advertising server includes a bulk ad provisioner for transmitting ad ad groups and rules to host device . Transmission of ads from advertising server to host device may be performed in bulk for a plurality of players or individually for an individual player when player is being updated. Advertising server also includes its own rules engine used for simulation of campaigns as described hereinabove. Advertising server also includes a database of advertisers advertisements distribution rules and playback rules.

Host device includes an ad provisioner for transmitting ads to Egg player and an ad updater for updating ads and rules on Egg player . Host device also includes a rules engine for evaluating conditions therefor and enforcing rules. Host device also includes a database of advertisements and rules.

Player includes a database of advertisements and rules. Player also includes an ad scheduler for scheduling playback of ads in database according to their rules. Ad scheduler is invoked periodically such as before a song is played. Ad scheduler evaluates rules to determine if ads should be played and schedules their playback accordingly. If a rule involves an ad group then ad scheduler selects one of the ads in the ad group based on the value of the ad s weighting data member from TABLE VI.

Reference is now made to which is a simplified flowchart of a method for scheduling advertisements according to evaluation of playback rules used by ad scheduler in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At operation the ad scheduler is invoked and receives as input a reference to a current song and its play history. The ad scheduler generates a list of advertisements to be played as its output. At operation the ad scheduler initializes this list as a currently empty list.

At operation the ad scheduler begins a loop traversing rules in order from highest priority to lowest priority. The loop spans operations . At operation the ad scheduler determines if there are more rules to be processed. If not then the loop ends and the ad scheduler returns the list of ads at operation as its output. If there are more rules to be processed then at operation the ad scheduler fetches the next rule. As mentioned hereinabove each rule has a condition and an ad or an ad group. Since an ad can be considered as a special case of an ad group that contains a single ad with a weighting of 1 it is assumed in what follows that the rule involves an ad group.

At operation the ad scheduler evaluates the rule s condition. The condition may involve the song s play history a reference to which was passed to the ad scheduler as input. At operation the ad scheduler branches depending on whether the condition evaluated at operation is true or false. If the condition is false then the rule is not applied and the ad scheduler returns to the beginning of the loop at operation . If the condition is true then the rule is to be applied and at operation the ad scheduler selects one of the ads from the ad group associated with the rule based on the weightings assigned to the ads within the ad group. Such selection may be a random selection with the weightings used as probabilities or it may be a deterministic selection in a manner such that the frequency of occurrence of each ad within the ad group is equal to or approximately equal to the ad s weighting.

At operation the ad scheduler inserts the ad chosen at operation at the end of the list of advertisements. At operation the ad scheduler updates the chosen rule s times invoked data member as per TABLE VII. In addition if this is the first time the rule is invoked then the ad scheduler also updates the rule s first invoked timestamp data member as per TABLE VII. At operation the ad scheduler updates the chosen advertisement s play count. In addition if this is the first time the chosen advertisement is played then the ad scheduler also updates the advertisement s first played time.

At operation the ad scheduler checks if the rule s play another ad data member as per TABLE VII is true. If so then the ad scheduler returns to operation to process the next rule. Otherwise the ad scheduler terminates at operation and returns its list of advertisements as output.

It may thus be appreciated that the advertising system of provides for a wide range of advertising opportunities. One such opportunity is a pre loaded demo whereby a sponsor distributes branded promotional players with pre loaded content and advertisements. A second such opportunity is a loyalty reward program whereby loyal customers are given free songs with advertisements associated therewith. A third such opportunity is label promotion whereby a music label company distributes free songs with associated advertisements at retail outlets. In case of joint sponsors advertisements from each sponsor can be organized for example into multiple ad groups and triggered in alternate succession.

As an example scenario suppose company X sponsors a concert tour of rock band Y. Attendees of the concert receive a free Egg player with company X s logo imprinted on the Egg s casing. Pre loaded on the Eggs is the latest album of rock band Y in a digital rights managed WMA format that the attendee receives for free. When the attendee plays the pre loaded songs he periodically hears advertisements for company X.

Company X uses ad management interface to update its advertisements from time to time. Company X offers new free songs of rock band Y as an incentive to have the attendees connect their Eggs to a host device such as a kiosk or a home PC and receive the new advertisements. When an attendee connects his Egg to the host device he automatically receives the new songs and the new advertisements. In turn his Egg sends statistical information about the advertisements he has heard to administration server .

Company X uses ad reporting metrics interface to receive statistics about the number of ad impressions they are getting.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an application programming interface API for Eggs is provided in order for third parties to use the advertising features of the present invention. Inter alia the Egg API includes the following functions.

In addition to the API for Eggs provided hereinabove an API for hosts including kiosks Nests and personal computers is also provided in order for third parties to use the advertising features of the present invention. Inter alia the host API includes the following functions.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to the specific exemplary embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

