---

title: Load determination in wireless networks
abstract: Systems and methods for improving latency in a communication system are disclosed. The channel load of an access channel can be determined in one embodiment. A backoff interval can be determined based on the channel load determined. A random backoff time can be determined and the transmission of an initial access probe can be delayed for the random backoff time, wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08565103&OS=08565103&RS=08565103
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08565103
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061212
---
The present invention generally relates to communication systems. More particularly the invention relates to channel load estimation in communication systems.

The present application is related to pending application Ser. No. 11 364 148 entitled Backoff Control for Access Probe Transmission in Communication Systems filed on Feb. 27 2006 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1 RTT 1 . and 1 EV DO standards 1 EV for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile terminals or access terminals receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. In order to aid in providing coverage each cell is often sub divided into multiple sectors each corresponding to a smaller service area or geographic region. An array or series of base stations placed adjacent to each other form a communication system capable of servicing a number of system users over a larger region.

Typically each mobile terminal monitors a control channel that can be used to exchange messages between the mobile terminal and the base station. The control channel is used to transmit system overhead messages whereas traffic channels are typically used for substantive communication e.g. voice and data to and from the mobile terminal. For example the control channel can be used to establish traffic channels control power levels and the like as is known in the art. Generally there are two types of power control for the reverse link open loop and closed loop power control. The open loop power control typically occurs prior to the mobile terminal establishing contact with a base station. The closed loop control occurs after the mobile and the base station are in communication and the base station can measure the received power levels and feedback power level adjustments to the mobile terminal.

In the open loop condition the reverse link power for an initial communication signal e.g. access probe from the mobile terminal to the base station can be determined by monitoring specialized signals from a base station or access point. For example in CDMA systems a pilot signal can be use to estimate the channel condition and then determine a power estimate for transmitting back to the base station. The accuracy of the channel conditions and power estimation can greatly impact performance of the system particularly in terms of latency of the system. For example 1 and 1 EV systems will transmit an access probe at a first power level based on a power control algorithm. If the first access attempt does not succeed then the probe is resent at increasingly higher power levels until it is successful or the power level maximum is reached.

The existing open loop power control algorithm used to transmit access probes over the Access Channel in CDMA2000 1 A and 1 EVDO networks tend to be prone to inaccuracies and can result in underestimation of transmit power for access probes. This leads to an increased loss rate of access probes over the Access Channel particularly on the first access attempt. Accordingly errors in the determination of the power level for the first transmission can lead to a high rate of unsuccessful first access attempts which can cause increased system latency as the probes are resent. By limiting retransmissions of the access probes the latency incurred by access probes can be reduced.

Another cause of failed access attempts is collision between access probes. Collisions occur when more than one mobile terminal attempts to send an access probe on the same Access Channel in the same sector. Because of the interference cause by the competing signals the base station may not successfully receive the access probes. Accordingly collisions are another factor that can impact the latency of a communication system. To address the problem of collisions some conventional systems will generate a random backoff time to prevent collisions on subsequent retransmissions. However conventional systems do not address potential collisions with the first access probe. Accordingly system latency can also be impacted by collisions on the initial access probe attempt. Additionally since the probability of collisions increases with increased channel loading it would be beneficial to know the instantaneous channel load. However conventional systems do not estimate the channel loading.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for channel load estimation in a communication system.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a method comprising estimating a channel load based on a number of load related messages on a control channel in a predetermined interval.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus comprising logic configured to estimate a channel load based on a number of load related messages on a control channel in a predetermined interval.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a method comprising transmitting channel load related information to an access terminal wherein the channel load related information is at least one of a number of page arrivals in a given sector a number of members in a group a number of members in a multicast group call a number of targets and a number of contiguous sectors containing the targets.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a system comprising means for transmitting channel load related information to an access terminal wherein the channel load related information is at least one of a number of page arrivals in a given sector a number of members in a group a number of members in a multicast group call a number of targets and a number of contiguous sectors containing the targets.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for determining channel load the method comprising estimating a channel load based on a number of load related messages on a control channel in a predetermined interval.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs base station transceivers BTS base stations BS or more generally access points. An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or mobile switching center MSC . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals. The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein generally the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Additionally although exemplary embodiments of the invention are described in terms of a wireless system and specific technologies such as CDMA 1 and 1 EV system those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to the illustrated systems. For example embodiments of the invention can include any system that can utilize load determination on a specific channel within the access network. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that signals transmitted over many mediums can be considered to have channel parameters and may be impacted by channel loading. For example signals over wireline systems such as copper wire coaxial cable fiber optic cables and the like have channel parameters that can be affected by transmission modulation frequency modulation technique noise sources cross talk medium characteristics and the like.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation wireless network carrier a core network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a MPC MSC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC MSC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC MSC is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS MPC MSC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated.

Referring to the access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein such as channel load estimation. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

As used herein access terminal includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein. Some examples of access terminals or wireless devices which may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include cellular telephones or other wireless communication units personal digital assistants PDAs paging devices handheld navigation devices handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and MPC MSC . The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN after traffic channels have been established.

As previously discussed conventional systems do not perform a random backoff during the initial transmission of the access probe. Accordingly the probability of collisions on the initial access probe is greater than in subsequent access attempts. Additionally to further enhance the probability of the access probe being successfully completed the random backoff can be optimized based on the channel load. Both of these aspects and other aspects of embodiments of the invention will be discussed in the following description.

Collisions can occur on the Access Channel whenever two or more access probes start transmitting at the same time. This can be particularly probable in a geographically dense call region e.g. in a group communications network . For example in a group communications network a large number of access terminals may be simultaneously paged and attempt to access the network such as in CDMA2000 1 when a large number of access terminals transmit the 8026 Page Response following a jump to hyperspace operation. In general the jump to hyperspace operations refers to 1 access terminals that get a page message and attempt to get synchronized with respect to each other within a time window e.g. in a 80 or 160 msec. window of time when transmitting the page response message.

The dependence of collision probability on the load on the Access Channel and the random backoff interval can be determined in closed form. These results can be used in the development of an adaptive backoff algorithm that ensures successful delivery of access probes over the Access Channel.

For comparison to embodiments of the present invention a conventional sequence of access probes is illustrated in . The first probe is transmitted at an initial power Pinit or IP during a first Access Channel slot. The probe waits for acknowledgement from the access point e.g. base station or for an acknowledgement timeout to occur. Then a random backoff time is determined before the next access probe is sent. As illustrated the second access probe and subsequent access probes and will be sent using increasingly higher transmit powers until an acknowledgement is received a maximum power is reached or the access process timeout occurs.

A reference diagram that illustrates an exemplary access procedure over the Access Channel in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . As illustrated an exemplary access procedure for embodiments of the invention differs from the standard specified procedure in one aspect in that a random backoff operation is performed even before the transmission of the first access probe.

For example let N denote the number of access terminals that have a probe to transmit over the Access Channel at time t 0 e.g. channel load . Each access terminal randomly defers its transmission by RT access cycle durations where 0 RT D 1. The random backoff time RT can take integer values and can be uniformly distributed in the interval 0 D 1 . In one embodiment D can be fixed to a pre specified value. In this case two probes will only collide with each other if their random backoff times RT are the same on the first access attempt. Collisions can also occur on subsequent access attempts if the access probes transmissions start at the same time.

Accordingly the probability of Q probes colliding in exactly V slots can be denoted as P N D . The number of collisions in each of these K slots can be given as I i i . . . i where i i . . . i Q. Then 

To facilitate an understanding of the following disclosure definitions for various terms used therein will be provided. For example the delay incurred by the first successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Minimum Delay. Note that the minimum delay will impact latency sensitive applications. The delay incurred by the last successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Maximum Delay. The 50th and 80th percentile delay are defined as the delay experienced by the N 2 and 0.8N successful access probe respectively. The terms ProbeBackoff and D may be used interchangeably where ProbeBackoff D 1.

The delay incurred in transmitting access probes over the Access Channel can be analyzed as a function of the load on the Access Channel for different settings of D. The delay incurred by the first successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Minimum Delay. The delay incurred by the last successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Maximum Delay.

Alignment with the nearest Access Cycle boundary can result in an additional delay of 12 slots. Additionally the average delay incurred as a result of performing a random backoff is not always equal to Avg delay 0.5 ProbeBackoff AccessCycleDuration slots. It can be considered a function of the backoff interval length and is typically less than the value of 0.5 ProbeBackoff AccessCycleDuration for D N.

However for all values of N 2 we find that the first successful access probe incurs an average delay of 87 msec which is significantly less than 166 msec. This is because performing a random backoff operation prior to the first access attempt results in a significant decrease in Access Channel collision probability and as a result at least one access probe is generally successful in the first access attempt. Following the first access attempt both these experiments depict identical behavior as ProbeBackoff 4 for all retransmissions in either case.

The Minimum Delay value directly affects the initial latency of the system. Accordingly in latency sensitive applications such as group communications the initial latency should be minimized as much as possible. Additionally for the group communications applications and other latency sensitive applications the 50th percentile delay should be considered as it can impact some target access terminals and cause loss of some initial media traffic.

Referring to the minimum and maximum values of delay in transmitting N access probes are illustrated. Using the best achievable delay e.g. achieved by centralized scheduling can be ascertained. For example comparing the delay achieved in experiments 1 and 2 to the smallest possible value as shown in the Minimum Delay achieved in experiment 2 is approximately 2.6 times higher than the best possible value for all values of N 2. The Maximum Delay in experiment 2 is approximately 2.2 times its smallest possible value for large values of N. In fact the 50th percentile delay in experiment 2 is very close to the smallest possible value of Maximum Delay in for all values of N. The delay provisioned by the randomized backoff algorithm is within a factor of 2 2.5 of the theoretical lower bound.

Further details regarding the initial random backoff algorithm and the effect of the ProbeBackoff D can be found in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 364 148 filed on 27 Feb. 2006 entitled BACKOFF CONTROL FOR ACCESS PROBE TRANSMISSION IN COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS by the present inventor and assigned to the same assignee which is hereby incorporated by referenced in its entirety.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing disclosure that the value of the random backoff interval can affect the delay experienced by access probes over the Access Channel. It can also be appreciated that the value of the backoff interval should be generally set to a higher value when N is high and to a smaller value when N is low. Setting the backoff interval to 0 N 1 Access cycle durations can increase the probability of success of an access probe within the initial five access cycles to 95 true for N 3 . Such a setting may be appropriate for group communication systems e.g. push to talk systems QChat Group calls as the Initial delay is typically determined by the arrival of the first ANNOUNCE ACK. Therefore using the setting of D N or N 1 can yield optimal performance with regards to minimizing the Minimum Delay as well the 50th percentile delay and Maximum Delay as discussed above which can improve the initial delay. Further according to embodiments of the invention the random backoff procedure can be used prior to each access attempt. Still further embodiments of the invention can be implemented at the access terminal either at the application layer or at the MAC layer.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing discussion that the load on the access channel N significantly impacts the potential for Access Probe collisions. Further it was established that performing a random backoff procedure over the interval determined as a function of N e.g. 0 N 1 access cycles will minimize the average value of the Minimum Delay. This was also verified via simulations. It was also shown that the Minimum Delay was not very sensitive to inaccurate estimates of the load on the access channel for large values of N 5 . However it was also shown via simulations that for small values of N 2

In this section embodiments of the invention that estimate the load N for a particular transmission on the access channel are described. In one embodiment a distributed algorithm can determine an estimate of N by monitoring information on a channel in the network. For example the number of pages transmitted in a control channel CC packet e.g. a synchronous control channel SCC packet every page cycle e.g. 426 or 213 milliseconds can be monitored. Pages transmitted on the control channel are generally for new calls for targets spread across a paging zone. Assuming that targets in a call are spread uniformly across sectors in a paging zone each access terminal can determine the average number of targets located in its sector. This information can be used to determine an estimate of load within the access terminal s sector. This is explained in greater detail in the following section.

The following example is provided solely for purposes of illustration and the invention is not limited to the specific values assumptions channels and systems discussed herein. Assume that the target of a call is equally likely to be in one of M sectors. Further assume K pages are seen on the Control Channel MAC packet during a paging cycle. Then the average number of pages destined to a given sector can be given as K M.

In sectors where no pages are destined the access terminals will enter the IDLE state. Access terminals that receive a page will respond by transmitting a page response message e.g. in CDMA a L2ACK message . Therefore the load on the access channel can be determined by those access terminals that receive a page amongst the K pages that arrive in the control channel CC packet.

When M is large or unknown an alternative technique can be used to determine the probability of page arrival within a sector. The average probability of a page arrival into a sector can be determined by taking into account prior samples of the probability of page arrival into the sector. For example denoting the number of actual page arrivals in a given sector during a Control Channel CC cycle s as rand the total number of pages that arrive during CC cycle s as K the average probability of arrival during CC cycle s 1 denoted by p can be determined as follows 

Using this approach the RAN can provide feedback information e.g. r to the access terminals in a given sector every CC cycle where ris the number of page responses received from the access terminals in that sector during the prior CC cycle.

In addition to page responses the access channel may also experience loading due to access terminal originated calls for example. Assuming that calls or other loading activities are placed by an access terminal in a given sector at a rate of calls per second and the duration of the access cycle is Tin seconds and further assuming that there are W access terminals registered within the sector at a given instant in time the load on the access channel due to access terminal originated calls E can be determined as . For example using the foregoing equation with a nominal call rate of 1.45 calls hour 1000 registered access terminals per sector and an access cycle duration of 26.67 ms yields the following 

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other activities in the sector may contribute to access channel loading and may be included in the value . For example gaming applications streaming media data services registrations transmissions of route update messages and the like may increase the value of . Accordingly the value of can be adjusted to take into account all activities in a sector that use the access channel.

The foregoing discussions looked at target and originating loading on the access channel. Accordingly the cumulative load on the access channel can be determined as the combination of both given as .

If the average number of retransmissions not including the first attempt over the access channel is RT then the total load on the access channel can be determined as 1 .

Accordingly a value of N i.e. load on the access channel can be estimated prior to each transmission. This value can be used to establish a probe backoff interval that can be used to increase the probability of a successful probe transmission and reduce system delays.

It is possible that targets in a group call are not uniformly distributed across an entire paging zone but are likely to be co located within a sector with high probability. In such cases the number sectors over which K pages are distributed can be assumed to be much smaller e.g. M 10. In this case we find that E 1.2. Therefore the estimated load in each sector for the Group call will be N 2.2. For example N can be calculated as N 1 Eso an additional offset is added to the calculated channel load or the calculated channel load can be used directly as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. Using this value of N an appropriate value for D can be determined at the target access terminal in each sector. For example those skilled in the art will appreciate that the value of N can be rounded up to the nearest integer e.g. using a CEIL or similar function . This integer value can be used directly in the case of D N for the purposes of establishing the random backoff interval.

Assuming that group calls exhibit a characteristic of having target access terminals concentrated in a few sectors within a paging zone as compared to direct calls each target access terminal can have the ability to distinguish whether the pages that it sees in a CC capsule belong to a direct call or a Group call. This can be used to estimate the load on the Access channel. A technique to distinguish group calls from direct calls is described in the following subsection.

A distinguishing characteristic of a group call is that it typically will cause a large number of pages to be transmitted in a packet over the Control Channel in each sector within a paging zone in quick succession. In contrast direct calls even during a busy hour will seldom cause more than 5 pages to be transmitted in a Control Channel CC packet. Therefore if an access terminal notices a large number of pages e.g. 6 or more in a CC packet it can conclude with very high accuracy that a group call or multiple group calls is being placed along with Direct Calls. To see this consider the following example using the following assumptions 

Using the foregoing assumptions it can be shown that the average number of calls arriving into a paging zone is equal to the average number of calls that emanate from within a paging zone. Accordingly the average number of calls that emanate from within a paging zone AvgCallsPZ can be determined as AvgCallsPZ 333 1.29 50 3600 6.7 calls second.

Therefore the average number of calls arriving into a paging zone which is also the average number of pages e.g. SO8026 pages per sector zone per second is equal to 6.7 pages second. Assuming a Poisson call arrival model typical for voice calls and denoting the probability of K pages transmitted by P K e.g. over a physical layer packet correspond to calls that arrived within the last 213 msec the CDF of K pages being transmitted in a Control Channel Capsule is illustrated in .

Additionally it is possible that some of the K pages in a CC capsule could belong to direct calls while others belong to a group call. However since the call arrival rate for group calls is relatively low in comparison to direct calls the probability of this event is expected to be relatively low and can be disregarded for estimating the channel loading.

In view of the foregoing disclosure those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention include methods of performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. For example as illustrated in at least one embodiment includes a method comprising estimating a channel load based on a number of load related messages on a control channel in a predetermined interval . The number of load related messages is determined as a number of control channel CC packets and the predetermined interval is every page interval.

Further the number of load related messages can be a number of pages K and estimating the channel load ca further include determining a number of sectors M in a paging zone and determining a probability of targets j in a designated sector such as discussed above.

Referring to the method can further include determining a backoff interval based on the estimated channel load . The random backoff time can be determined where the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected. Additionally the transmission of an initial access probe can be delayed for the random backoff time . Accordingly the channel load estimation can be used to reduce the system latency due to access probe collisions as discussed above. For example the backoff interval can be determined as 0 N 1 access cycles where N is the estimated channel load and access cycles is an interval for a channel that is used to transmit the access probe.

As discussed in the foregoing embodiments of the invention can improve system latency which can benefit all applications but is particularly important to delay sensitive applications. A group communication system is an example of a delay sensitive system that can take advantage of reduced connection times offered by embodiments of the invention disclosed herein. The group communication system may also be known as a push to talk PTT system a net broadcast service NBS a dispatch system or a point to multi point communication system. Typically a group of access terminal users can communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. The term group member denotes a group of access terminal users authorized to communicate with each other. Although group communication systems PTT systems may be considered to be among several members the system is not limited to this configuration and can apply to communication between individual devices on a one to one basis.

The group may operate over an existing communications system without requiring substantial changes to the existing infrastructure. Thus a controller and users may operate in any system capable of transmitting and receiving packet information using Internet protocol IP such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system satellite communication systems combinations of land line and wireless systems and the like.

Group members may communicate with each other using an assigned access terminal AT such as ATs and . The ATs may be wireline or wireless devices such as terrestrial wireless telephones wireline telephones having push to talk capability satellite telephones equipped with push to talk functionality wireless video cameras still cameras audio devices such as music recorders or players laptop or desktop computers paging devices or any combination thereof. Furthermore each AT may be able to send and receive information in either a secure mode or a non secure clear mode. It should be understood that reference to an access terminal is not intended to be limited to the illustrated or enumerated examples and may encompass other devices that have the capability to transmit and receive packet information in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

When a group member wishes to transmit information to other members of the group the member may request the transmission privilege by pressing a push to talk button or key on an AT which generates a request formatted for transmission over a distributed network. For example the request may be transmitted from an AT over the air to one or more MPTs or base stations . A MPC MSC which may include a well known inter working function IWF packet data serving node PDSN or packet control function PCF for processing data packets may exist between MPT BS and the distributed network RAN . However the requests may also be transmitted through the public switched telephone network PSTN to a carrier network . The carrier network may receive the request and provide it to distributed network .

Referring to one or more group communication servers can monitor traffic of the group communication system through its connection to distributed network . Since group communication server can be connected to the network through a variety of wired and wireless interfaces geographic proximity to group participants is not necessary. Typically a group communication server controls communications between the access terminals wireless devices of group members ATs in a PTT system. The wireless network illustrated is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. A series of group communication servers can be connected to a group communication server LAN .

The group communication server s can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF may be located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a MSC . The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and PSTN for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless ATs such as cellular telephones as is well known in the art. Accordingly the details of a group communication system will not be further discussed.

As discussed in the foregoing group members e.g. ATs can utilize embodiments of the invention to increase the probability of a successful first transmission of an access probe thereby reducing the PTT latency and improving the system performance. Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal comprising logic configured to execute the methods of . Further the invention is not limited to the specified embodiments. Accordingly logic in the access terminal can be configured to perform any of the functions algorithms equations sequences and or actions discussed herein.

Additionally a server e.g. the group communication server RAN network device operably coupled to the communication network or combinations thereof can work cooperatively with the access terminal to increase the probability of a successful first transmission of an access probe. As used herein the term server is intended to be broadly construed as any device and or combination of devices that are part of the wireless network or operably coupled to the wireless network that can perform the functions described herein. Accordingly in one embodiment of the invention a server can transmit the number of participants in a group call e.g. channel load estimate potential N as part of the Announce Message initial message to the access terminal or initial page. Additionally the message could be configured to list the number of access terminals in a sector cell that are designated as part of the group call. For example this configuration can be useful when a QChat group call or similar group communication is placed using the multicast option. In general this information can be exploited for all group calls. Further as discussed above a server can provide a number of page arrivals e.g. r in a given sector during a Control Channel CC cycle s.

In general in multicast Group calls if targets are spread across many sectors in a paging zone a multicast call is not beneficial since there is no radio resource savings on the forward link. So it can be expected that multicast calls will typically be invoked whenever targets of the call are co located within a few sectors. In fact multicast calls may also be restricted to pre defined groups like public safety or construction site locations where users are likely to be highly co located.

Assuming that a multicast Group call is invoked whenever at least one sector in the network is expected to have at least F targets in R contiguous sectors the load on the access channel in a sector as a result of the multicast call can be determined by assuming K F and M R in the formula for the load determination algorithm discussed in the foregoing sections. Since it is likely that K is large and M is small the accuracy of the algorithm in predicting the load on the access channel improves significantly.

For example in a multicast Group call since the same Announce message is sent by the group communication server to the targets of the multicast call the targets in a sector receive the same Announce message. Then the targets of the multicast call that are in that sector will initiate access channel transmission procedures at the same time. As a result the probability of a collision on the first access attempt is very high.

If the group communication server includes the total number of targets in the Group Call as part of the Announce message the targets of the multicast call can infer the maximum load on the access channel as a result of this multicast call. Additionally if the RAN is aware of the relative location of the targets of the Multicast call within a given group of contiguous sectors the RAN could modify the number of targets in the Announce message further for targets that lie in that group of contiguous sectors. As a result the peak load on the Access Channel for the multicast call is further refined. Knowledge of the average and peak load on the access channel as a result of the multicast call will allow targets of the multicast call to better characterize the instantaneous load on the access channel. For example the maximum group members can be used as an upper limit bound for the peak load.

Further a server e.g. RAN can specify the total number of sectors in its paging zone to the access terminal. The access terminal can use this information to determine an estimate of N based on the number of pages which can be considered to be proportional to the number of calls including both direct calls as well as group calls it sees on the Control Channel every paging cycle. If the server is configured to track the geographical location of access terminals at a finer granularity than a paging zone and transmit pages to a few sectors where the access terminal is most likely to be then each access terminal can listen to pages on the Control Channel that are within its sector or in a neighboring sector. For example the RAN can track access terminal at a finer granularity e.g. 7 10 sectors by letting the access terminal more frequently transmit its location e.g. RouteUpdate messages . This location information can be used by the RAN to page access terminals or transmit any mobile terminated call set up traffic to only a small group of sectors. This will result in the reduction of M sectors as used in the foregoing equations. This can further enhance the ability to estimate the channel load N which in turn can enhance the ability of the access terminal to accurately establish the backoff interval.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a communication system comprising a server including logic configured to transmit a channel load estimate and an access terminal including logic configured to receive the channel load estimate logic configured to determine a backoff interval based on the channel load estimate logic configured to determine a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and logic configured to delay the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time. As discussed above the channel load estimate is a number of participants in a group call and can be transmitted in an initial communication from a server to an access terminal e.g. in an initial page and or an Announce Message .

Additionally an embodiment of invention can include methods of performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. For example as illustrated in at least one embodiment can include a method comprising transmitting channel load related information to an access terminal. As discussed above the channel load related information can be at least one of a number of page arrivals in a given sector a number of members in a group a number of members in a multicast group call a number of targets and a number of contiguous sectors containing the targets. The information can be transmitted as part of a group communication initiation message e.g. Announce message . Further the group communication can be further modified to change the number of targets from a total number of targets to a number of targets within a limited number of contiguous sectors . Still further those skilled in the art will appreciate that the information from or can be used to substitute the number of targets F and the number of contiguous sectors R for a number of pages K and a number of sectors M used in an algorithm e.g. as discussed in the foregoing description to determine channel load at the access terminal.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying methods in accordance with the methods algorithms steps and or functions disclosed herein. For example embodiments of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method in a wireless communication system the method comprising estimating a channel load based on a number of load related messages on a control channel in a predetermined interval. Additional aspects described herein can also be included in the computer readable media embodying the method such as determining a backoff interval based on the estimated channel load determining a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and delaying the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time. Accordingly embodiments of computer readable media embodying methods in accordance with the methods algorithms steps and or functions disclosed herein is not limited to these examples.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

