---

title: Method and device for secure communication of a component of a vehicle with an external communication partner via a wireless communication link
abstract: A method, a device, and a communication system are provided for secure communication of at least one of multiple components of a vehicle with at least one external communication partner via a wireless communication link, the multiple components in each case including at least one communication module for data exchange. The method includes exchange of data packets between a transceiver device of the vehicle and an external transceiver station, a communication status of the wireless communication link being ascertained and a data exchange between the at least one component and/or the external communication partner on the one hand, and the others of the multiple components on the other hand and/or an access of the at least one component and/or of the external communication partner to the others of the multiple components being enabled or disabled as a function of the communication status. The device and the communication system are provided for implementing the method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591480&OS=09591480&RS=09591480
owner: VOLKSWAGEN AG
number: 09591480
owner_city: Wolfsburg
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20060504
---
The present invention relates to a method for secure communication of at least one of multiple components of a vehicle with at least one external communication partner via a wireless communication link the multiple components in each case including at least one communication module for data exchange which includes exchange of data packets between a transceiver device of the vehicle and an external transceiver station and a corresponding device and a corresponding communication system.

The need for data exchange between components of a vehicle and a communication partner external to the vehicle via wireless communication links is on the increase. Components of a vehicle are understood as either software applications running on a computer of the vehicle vehicle computer or hardware components for example an engine control module. In order to exchange data between vehicle components all these components include at least one communication module which is usually designed as software and which is executable on the vehicle computer. The communication module for the engine control module is a communication interface for example which runs on the vehicle computer as software and makes access to the hardware parts of the component possible via a bus system.

A need for communication between the external communication partner and the components of the vehicle may have multiple reasons. For example it may be desirable for a user of the vehicle that the engine control module exchanges data with a contract workshop of the vehicle manufacturer to make rapid and reliable troubleshooting possible in the case of a vehicle malfunction. Another example of communication via a wireless communication link is the download of multimedia information into an infotainment module of the vehicle. Many other applications are possible in which wireless communication between a component of the vehicle and an external communication partner takes place. They include applications in which a device separated or separable from the vehicle for example a cell phone or a portable computer etc. is connected to the vehicle and wireless data exchange takes place via a transceiver device of the vehicle to a transceiver station. The communication partner may be a software application for example which runs on a computer which is connected to the transceiver station via a network. There may be however other devices or individuals that exchange data with a component of the vehicle via an electronic device which is connected to the transceiver station with the help of the network.

The wireless communication link between the transceiver device of the vehicle and the external transceiver station is normally designed as a WLAN Wireless Local Area Network . In wireless communication links there is the basic difficulty that this link may be eavesdropped on by unauthorized persons. In particular when sensitive data are exchanged eavesdropping and or manipulation by an unauthorized person are to be avoided. For this purpose different authentication and encryption mechanisms are used.

In the following it is assumed that the wireless communication link is a WLAN link. However the description applies to any type of wireless communication link. WLAN networks allow mobile transceiver devices to establish a communication link to the external transceiver station which is referred to as an access point or a hotspot. WLAN access points may be made available from different operators. For example contract dealers and contract workshops of an automobile manufacturer may make access points available to make communication with the vehicle via a WLAN link possible to thereby in turn facilitate service and troubleshooting. The owner of a vehicle may also operate a private WLAN via which he may transfer navigation data multimedia data etc. from his computer into a navigation unit of the vehicle or an infotainment unit of the vehicle. Further functionalities may be made available via WLAN links. For example it is possible that access points are made available at gas stations and other public places via which additional services may be utilized.

The protection mechanisms that are used at the different access points are usually different. While a private WLAN network may be very well protected by the user because it is provided only for the communication with the vehicle and occasionally a few other electronic components a publicly accessible access point for example a gas station or a fast food restaurant must allow access for a plurality of different devices and communication partners. There are access points that require both authentication and encryption of the data traffic. Other access points use neither authentication nor data encryption. In addition to data encryption the trustworthiness of the access point affects the security of the communication. A public access point for example could be set up by a hacker. The trustworthiness may be checked via exchange of certificates. The trustworthiness of the access point like data encryption also contributes to the transmission security in wireless transmission.

In addition to transmission security between the mobile transceiver device and the transceiver station of the access point the trustworthiness of the communication partner as well as transmission from the external communication partner to the access point of the wireless communication link via a network are relevant to the security of communication.

Authentication of the external communication partner and encryption of the transmitted data may also be performed at this level.

All in all there are thus very different communication scenarios as a function of the transmission security of the wireless communication link as well as of authentication of the external interlocutor or of the encryption of data in the case of a network transmission to the transceiver station of the wireless communication link. To allow a high degree of functionality it is however necessary that individual components of the vehicle communicate with untrustworthy external communication partners or via wireless communication links that are not properly secured. In such a case intrusion by a hacker into the communication link cannot be ruled out. The individual components of the vehicle are designed such that they should withstand an attack by a hacker. However it has been found that in particular in the case of software implementation errors of this type allowing a hacker to gain control over the application i.e. the particular component are unavoidable. If a hacker has gained control over a component he may attack other components of the vehicle via this component. If the computer of the vehicle communicates with a hacker the hacker could attempt to find security holes in components or applications executed on the computer. As soon as a hacker finds a security hole in any application or component he may make use of this security hole to gain control over this particular application or component. The hacker could use this infected application or component to gain access to the vehicle computer resources interfaces and other networked computer supported or computer based vehicle components which are connected to the vehicle computer. The hacked vehicle application may be used as a stepping stone for infecting other applications components on the vehicle computer to ultimately gain access to the vehicle computer resources.

Thus if only one of the many applications components on the vehicle computer has a security hole which is found by a hacker the hacker may use this infected application for gaining access to other applications devices resources or components within the vehicle computer or such components that are linked to the vehicle computer on which the infected application is executed.

Unfortunately vehicle manufacturers are unable to ensure that applications or components will not have any security holes. Security holes may always be found and they have been found to be an unavoidable phenomenon of software development.

It must therefore be assumed that a vehicle computer equipped with a WLAN client within a vehicle has at least one executed application component which has at least one security hole and that this vehicle computer is allowed to communicate with a public access point for example a WLAN access point at a parking place a gas station or a fast food restaurant etc. .

It must furthermore be assumed that it is possible that the access point has already also been infected by a hacker or it is made available by the hacker. In such a case the infected access point would have the opportunity to test the executed applications components on the vehicle computer to find security holes which may be made use of by the hacker.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide a method and a device as well as a communication system allowing more secure communication between a component of a vehicle and an external communication partner via a wireless communication link.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide that at least one of multiple components of the vehicle exchanges data packets with an external communication partner via a wireless communication link. Data packets are understood not only as packets of a broken up data stream but also as a continuous data stream. A communication status is ascertained for the wireless communication link. On the basis of the communication status a decision is made as to whether the at least one component and or the external communication partner may access one or the other of the multiple components or whether it may exchange data with these other components. This means that a decision is made on the basis of the communication status of whether such a data exchange is enabled or disabled. In particular a method is provided for secure communication of at least one of multiple components of a vehicle with at least one external communication partner via a wireless communication link the multiple components in each case including at least one communication module for data exchange including an exchange of data packets between a transceiver device of the vehicle and an external transceiver station a communication status of the wireless communication link being ascertained and data exchange between the at least one component and or the external communication partner on the one hand and others of multiple components on the other hand and or access of the at least one component and or the external communication partner to the others of the multiple components is enabled or disabled as a function of the communication status.

Furthermore a device is provided for secure communication of at least one of multiple components of a vehicle with at least one external communication partner via a wireless communication link the multiple components in each case including at least one communication module for data exchange including an exchange of data packets between a transceiver device of the vehicle and an external transceiver station a communication status of the wireless communication link being ascertainable and data exchange between the at least one component and or the external communication partner on the one hand and others of the multiple components on the other hand and or access of the at least one component and or the external communication partner to the others of the multiple components may be enabled or disabled as a function of the communication status.

In ascertaining the communication status all facts affecting or determining the communication link technically and regarding communication security may be taken into account.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide that in a communication status which indicates that possible security concerns exist a hacker is denied access to certain sensitive components of the vehicle. The risk of a hacker intruding into a vehicle is thus substantially reduced.

The communication status may be ascertained on the basis of an encryption and or authentication used by an external transceiver station. This ensures that the security problems that exist in particular due to the wireless transmission are taken into account in ascertaining the communication status.

Improved determination of the communication status is possible when alternatively or additionally the communication status is ascertained on the basis of an encryption and or authentication used by the external communication partner.

In order to disable the data exchange between the at least one component and or the external communication partner on the one hand and the others of the multiple components on the other hand and or to disable access of the at least one component and or the external communication partner to the others of the multiple components at least the communication modules of the others of the multiple components may be deactivated. Communication modules may be parts of a component which are provided for data exchange via the vehicle computer of the vehicle. Access to another component may be access to the executable code of the component or the driver interfaces of the component or other data in the vehicle computer of the vehicle associated with this component. In individual cases the entire component may also be deactivated. For example it makes no sense for a diagnosis component in the vehicle to be active if a communication link for example of a multimedia application has been established to a public music archive via a public unprotected WLAN access point. Such a diagnosis component which makes intervention in the vehicle controller elements possible should reasonably be activated only in a communication status in which not only is the wireless communication link secure but also communication with a trustworthy external communication partner is ensured.

The external transceiver station may include a WLAN access point. The transceiver device of the vehicle may be designed as a WLAN client.

The multiple components may include computer applications which are executed on a vehicle computer of the vehicle.

A communication link may be secured on different network application layers or levels. The Open Systems Interconnection Reference Model hereinafter referred to as the OSI model describes these different levels or layers. The individual levels of the OSI model are referred to as OSI layers. In certain conventional methods and devices authentication is carried out in different OSI layers. Thus in WLAN networks both authentication and encryption methods are conventional in OSI layers and . However it is also possible that authentication and or encryption takes place in OSI layers or or even in multiple OSI layers including OSI layers through which are referred to as application layers. For determining the communication status which should provide information about the security of the communication link and the trustworthiness of the communication partner it is disadvantageous if the individual security protocols are implemented in different components and or applications in different OSI layers. The authentication and or encryption may be carried out in all network application layers in particular OSI layers by a central security component of the vehicle. The security component implements all necessary authentication and encryption mechanisms in the different OSI layers. This offers the advantage that a security status and thus the communication status may be ascertained more easily. Another advantage is that a single security component is easier to service than multiple security components working in parallel and performing authentication encryption in one or more of the network application layers OSI layers . The replication of different security protocols in different OSI layers is thus reduced. Errors within the security component i.e. within the authentication and encryption components are thus reduced overall.

The external communication partner may be an application program for example on an external computer which communicates with the transceiver station via a network. Application programs may provide the user with a high degree of functionality in the vehicle without the vehicle computer having to be capable itself of executing the application program. Thus applications requiring considerable computing resources or a large database i.e. a large memory may be used from the vehicle.

The communication status may include a communication security level and a component security level may be assigned to the individual components of the multiple components and the data exchange with and or access to the others of the multiple components may be disabled if the component security level of the corresponding others of the multiple components is lower than the ascertained communication security level. Thus various scenarios may be classified into communication security levels. It may be established for each communication security level which one of the components may be active. A component security level may thus be assigned to each communication security level. Easy management of the access rights i.e. the possibilities of deactivation or activation of the individual components is thus ensured.

The features of the refinements of the device according to example embodiments of the present invention and of the communication system have the same and or similar advantages as the corresponding features of the method.

Example embodiments of the present invention are described in more detail below with reference to the appended Figures.

Secure communication of a vehicle component with an external communication partner may provide for four mechanisms. These four mechanisms are indicated by four double arrows within a large double arrow which represents a secure communication via a wireless communication link. The four mechanisms include mutual authentication an exchange of a session key the exchange exclusively of signed or encrypted data and the authentication of the origin of each received data packet . However there will also be applications for the vehicle user in which he will want to connect with an external communication partner who is not implementing any security measures. This is the case for example with providers that provide information free of charge within a broadcast. In this case a communication link including a wireless communication link between WLAN client and a transceiver station designed as WLAN access point is established between external communication partner and the component designed as vehicle application . Access of external communication partner to other components of vehicle may be prevented with the aid of a firewall which is also used as a port filter. However if vehicle application has a security hole it may be infected which is indicated by the letter O. The infection may take place via communication partner or via access point or wireless communication link depending on which of these are infected or hacked. 

As shows this infected component which includes vehicle application may be used to gain unauthorized access to other vehicle components which include vehicle applications . Vehicle applications may be designed for example as communication modules of the components whose hardware parts are connected to vehicle computer via one of bus systems . Infection of such a component is represented by an O in one of bus systems . Technically identical features are labeled with the same reference numerals in all figures. To prevent unauthorized access a communication status for the communication link between the vehicle component and external communication partner is ascertained. The communication status is used for making infection of components difficult or even impossible.

Different security scenarios may be identified on the basis of the different authentication and encryption mechanisms used. An exemplary classification of such scenarios is to be described below. The trustworthiness of the external interlocutor the trustworthiness of the external transceiver station via which the wireless communication link is established and the protection of the wireless communication link for example via encryption are taken into account. Classification is initially performed into classes on the basis of the trustworthiness of the external communication partner. The vehicle manufacturer has the highest degree of trustworthiness for example. It is classified into category A. A category B is assigned to trusted third parties for example those who are certified. Untrustworthy communication partners are grouped into a third category C. A security attribute which is affected by the trustworthiness of the external transceiver station of the wireless communication link and the security of the wireless communication link is additionally assigned to each category. The attribute secure is assigned when communication takes place in encrypted form via a trustworthy access point. The attribute limited security is assigned when communication takes place via an access point having limited trustworthiness for example via a secure WLAN access of a customer. The attribute not secure is assigned to the remaining situations in which access takes place via an untrustworthy access point. If the external communication partner is assigned to category C the attribute secure is not assigned even if access takes place via a trustworthy and secure access point. In this manner a total of eight security levels result in the classification system described a communication scenario being presented for each 

Category A secure for communication between the manufacturer and a vehicle component via a trustworthy WLAN network 

Category A limited security for communication with the vehicle manufacturer via a WLAN network having limited trustworthiness secure WLAN connection of a vehicle owner 

Category A not secure for communication with the vehicle manufacturer via an untrustworthy WLAN network public parking place gas station 

Category B secure for communication with a trustworthy third party for example a licensed software provider via a trustworthy WLAN network 

Category B limited security for communication between a trustworthy third party and a vehicle component via a WLAN network of limited trustworthiness 

Category B not secure for communication with a trustworthy third party via an untrustworthy WLAN network 

Category C limited security for communication with an untrustworthy third party information provider that has no relationship with the vehicle manufacturer and is unlicensed via a trustworthy WLAN network or via a WLAN network of limited trustworthiness.

Category C not secure for communication with an untrustworthy third party via an untrustworthy WLAN network.

These security levels are ascertained by a central security component which develops the authentication and or encryption in all different OSI layers. The security component may be designed as software but may also be entirely or partly designed as hardware. The mode of operation is described with reference to . The security component initially receives an authentication request . The authentication protocol is then identified as . This may vary as a function of the OSI layer from which the authentication request originates. In OSI layer these are for example the WPAP Wireless Protected Access Protocol or the EAP TLS Extensible Authentication Protocol Transport Layers Security . In OSI layer this is for example the IPSec VPN Internet Protocol Security Virtual Private Network protocol. In OSI layer this is for example the SSL Secure Socket Layer protocol. A certificate is received which determines the class and identification of the access point and the receiving party s own certificate is transmitted as . A security guideline is then established as according to the identification and class of the access point. The security guideline establishes the access of the component to which a link has been established and of the external communication partner to other components. Subsequently a session key is exchanged with access point . Depending on which protocol has been used a decision is made about where the session key will be forwarded. If a protocol of OSI layer is used the session key is delivered to the WLAN client or a WLAN card . If it is a protocol of OSI layer the session key is delivered to an IPSec VPN client for example . If the authentication protocol is from layer the session key is forwarded for example to the OSGi platform . The different security protocols then perform the authentication and or encryption. They are all performed or at least checked and controlled by the security component. The security component may additionally ascertain the trustworthiness of the external communication partner to thus establish a communication status in particular a security level. The trustworthiness of the communication partner is ascertained for example via an exchange of certificates.

A component security level is assigned to each of the individual components which may be vehicle applications on the vehicle computer. shows how the data exchange of at least one component to other components is disabled. This is indicated by crosses . Component is allowed even at a lower security level of the communication link to communicate with an external communication partner . Since in this case there is the risk that the at least one component becomes infected if for example wireless communication link is manipulated by a hacker the other components or at least their communication modules are deactivated. External communication partner and or the at least one component of vehicle are thus prevented from exchanging data with other components or accessing the same. An infection of these other components or unauthorized access to these other components is thus reliably prevented. All in all a particularly advantageous communication system thus be provided.

