---

title: Console integrated downloadable game service
abstract: A user interface screen is displayed on a gaming device that provides both a first selectable item that indicates the ability to download games to the gaming device and a second selectable item that indicates the ability to view games that are stored on at least one storage device in the gaming device. The user interface is associated with the gaming device instead of with an individual application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08142282&OS=08142282&RS=08142282
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08142282
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061115
---
Historically gaming consoles have been dedicated devices that connect to a monitor and that allow a user to play a game stored on a game cartridge or disc that is inserted into the gaming console. Thus the games available to a user were provided on gaming modules or optical discs that the user had to purchase and bring home. When a user wanted to play a game the user had to insert the module or disc into the gaming console. The game would typically automatically start when it was inserted into the console. When the user desired to play a different game the existing game had to be removed from the gaming console and the new game had to be inserted into the gaming console.

Traditionally gaming consoles had also been isolated from other devices other than a television monitor. As such they were not viewed as devices that could be networked.

This changed with the introduction of the Microsoft XBOX gaming console which provided network connectivity for the gaming console. To take advantage of this network connectivity Microsoft introduced a gaming disc known as Microsoft Arcade which was able to use the network connection on the gaming console to reach a server through the Internet. By communicating with this server code on the Arcade gaming disc was able to enumerate games that were stored on the server and that could be downloaded to the gaming console. The list of games available on the server was displayed to the user along with games that had previously been downloaded to the gaming device. Thus in one display the user saw both games that had been downloaded and games that had yet to be downloaded. By selecting one of the games that had not been downloaded yet the user was able to download the game onto their gaming device for a fee. This fee was paid through a credit card transaction that required many interactions with the user in order to confirm the purchase.

Although games were downloaded and stored on the gaming device they could not be viewed or played unless the Arcade disc was running in the gaming console. In addition the downloaded games were not viewed as independent games by the gaming console but instead were considered content for the Arcade disc.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A user interface screen is displayed on a gaming device that provides both a first selectable item that indicates the ability to download games to the gaming device and a second selectable item that indicates the ability to view games that are stored on at least one storage device in the gaming device. The user interface is associated with the gaming device instead of with an individual application.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

As shown in gaming and media system includes a game and media console hereinafter console . Console is configured to accommodate one or more wireless controllers as represented by controllers and . A command button on console is used to create a new wireless connection between one of the controllers and the console . Console is equipped with an internal hard disk drive not shown and a media drive that supports various forms of portable storage media as represented by optical storage disc . Examples of suitable portable storage media include DVD CD ROM game discs and so forth. Console also includes two memory unit card receptacles and for receiving removable flash type memory units .

Console also includes an optical port for communicating wirelessly with one or more devices and two USB Universal Serial Bus ports and to support a wired connection for additional controllers or other peripherals. In some implementations the number and arrangement of additional ports may be modified. A power button and an eject button are also positioned on the front face of game console . Power button is selected to apply power to the game console and can also provide access to other features and controls and eject button alternately opens and closes the tray of a portable media drive to enable insertion and extraction of a storage disc .

Console connects to a television or other display not shown via A V interfacing cables . In one implementation console is equipped with a dedicated A V port not shown configured for content secured digital communication using A V cables e.g. A V cables suitable for coupling to a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI port on a high definition monitor or other display device . A power cable provides power to the game console. Console may be further configured with broadband capabilities as represented by a cable or modem connector to facilitate access to a network such as the Internet.

Each controller is coupled to console via a wired or wireless interface. In the illustrated implementation the controllers are USB compatible and are coupled to console via a wireless or USB port . Console may be equipped with any of a wide variety of user interaction mechanisms. In an example illustrated in each controller is equipped with two thumbsticks and a D pad buttons User Guide button and two triggers . By pressing and holding User Guide button a user is able to power up or power down console . By pressing and releasing User Guide button a user is able to cause a User Guide Heads Up Display HUD user interface to appear over the current graphics displayed on monitor . The controllers described above are merely representative and other known gaming controllers may be substituted for or added to those shown in .

In one implementation not shown a memory unit MU may also be inserted into one of controllers and to provide additional and portable storage. Portable MUs enable users to store game parameters and entire games for use when playing on other consoles. In this implementation each console is configured to accommodate two MUs although more or less than two MUs may also be employed.

Gaming and media system is generally configured for playing games stored on a memory medium as well as for downloading and playing games and reproducing pre recorded music and videos from both electronic and hard media sources. With the different storage offerings titles can be played from the hard disk drive from optical disk media e.g. from an online source from a peripheral storage device connected to USB connections or from MU .

CPU memory controller and various memory devices are interconnected via one or more buses not shown . The details of the bus that is used in this implementation are not particularly relevant to understanding the subject matter of interest being discussed herein. However it will be understood that such a bus might include one or more of serial and parallel buses a memory bus a peripheral bus and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus also known as a Mezzanine bus.

In one implementation CPU memory controller ROM and RAM are integrated onto a common module . In this implementation ROM is configured as a flash ROM that is connected to memory controller via a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus and a ROM bus neither of which are shown . RAM is configured as multiple Double Data Rate Synchronous Dynamic RAM DDR SDRAM modules that are independently controlled by memory controller via separate buses not shown . Hard disk drive and media drive are shown connected to the memory controller via the PCI bus and an AT Attachment ATA bus . However in other implementations dedicated data bus structures of different types can also be applied in the alternative.

In some embodiments ROM contains an operating system kernel that controls the basic operations of the console and that exposes a collection of Application Programming Interfaces that can be called by games and other applications to perform certain functions and to obtain certain data.

A three dimensional graphics processing unit and a video encoder form a video processing pipeline for high speed and high resolution e.g. High Definition graphics processing. Data are carried from graphics processing unit to video encoder via a digital video bus not shown . An audio processing unit and an audio codec coder decoder form a corresponding audio processing pipeline for multi channel audio processing of various digital audio formats. Audio data are carried between audio processing unit and audio codec via a communication link not shown . The video and audio processing pipelines output data to an A V audio video port for transmission to a television or other display. In the illustrated implementation video and audio processing components are mounted on module .

In the implementation depicted in console includes a controller support subassembly for supporting up to four controllers . The controller support subassembly includes any hardware and software components needed to support wired and wireless operation with an external control device such as for example a media and game controller. A front panel I O subassembly supports the multiple functionalities of power button the eject button as well as any LEDs light emitting diodes or other indicators exposed on the outer surface of console . Subassemblies and are in communication with module via one or more cable assemblies . In other implementations console can include additional controller subassemblies. The illustrated implementation also shows an optical I O interface that is configured to send and receive signals that can be communicated to module .

MUs and are illustrated as being connectable to MU ports A and B respectively. Additional MUs e.g. MUs are illustrated as being connectable to controllers and i.e. two MUs for each controller. Controllers and can also be configured to receive MUs not shown . Each MU offers additional storage on which games game parameters and other data may be stored. In some implementations the other data can include any of a digital game component an executable gaming application an instruction set for expanding a gaming application and a media file. When inserted into console or a controller MU can be accessed by memory controller .

A system power supply module provides power to the components of gaming system . A fan cools the circuitry within console .

Under some embodiments an application comprising machine instructions is stored on hard disk drive . Application provides a collection of user interfaces that are associated with console instead of with an individual game. The user interfaces allow the user to select system settings for console access media attached to console view information about games and utilize services provided by a server that is connected to console through a network connection. When console is powered on various portions of application are loaded into RAM and or caches and for execution on CPU . Although application is shown as being stored on hard disk drive in alternative embodiments application is stored in ROM with the operating system kernel.

Gaming system may be operated as a standalone system by simply connecting the system to a monitor a television a video projector or an other display device. In this standalone mode gaming system enables one or more players to play games or enjoy digital media e.g. by watching movies or listening to music. However with the integration of broadband connectivity made available through network interface gaming system may further be operated as a participant in a larger network gaming community.

Server s provide a collection of services that users and applications running on console and may invoke and utilize. In order to restrict access to the services on server s and in order to provide custom services to individual users many embodiments require the user to login to the server s using user login services . During login login services obtain a Gamertag a unique identifier associated with the user and a password from the user as well as a console ID that uniquely identifies the console that the user is using and a network path to the console. The Gamertag and password are authenticated by comparing them to information stored in user records in a database which may be located on the same server as user login services or may be distributed on a different server or a collection of different servers. Once authenticated user login services stores the console ID and the network path in user records so that messages and downloadable content may be sent to the console.

User records also includes a history of content and licenses that the user has downloaded financial information about the user including a credit card number associated with the user account and profile information such as the user s reputation and preferred gaming style. Under some embodiments user records also include an account balance of redeemable points which can be used to purchase content from server s . Such points can be accumulated by purchasing them using a credit card or redeeming a pre paid points card. In general one dollar purchases a large number of points thereby allowing micro pricing for content. For example 20 USD may purchase 1600 points.

Content may be purchased from server s using download purchase services . Such content can include full games additional levels maps characters equipment and other items that may be used to expand play in a game. In general such content is stored in one or more games packages which are found in a games repository along with licensing data for the content. During a purchase download purchase services retrieves information about the content including a description of the content and the price of the content from games repository . Download purchase services also retrieves financial information about the user from user records that can be used to facilitate the purchase such the user s account balance. Based on input from the user download purchase services can reduce the user s account balance to complete the financial transaction.

When a game or content is purchased a licensing service is used to generate licensing packages that provide permissions allowing the game or content to be played on the console. Under one embodiment licensing service generates a user license package and a machine license package with each download. The user license package allows a user logged into server s to use the content or game regardless of the console that the user is playing on. The machine license allows any user on a console that received the download from the server s to use the game or content. In several embodiments licensing service includes cryptography elements that allow it to encrypt the licensing packages to prevent access to the licensing package except by the console specified during the purchase. Typically the licensing package forms part of the downloaded content or game that is stored on a storage device connected to the console. By incorporating the licensing package in the downloaded content the licensing package will be copied whenever the content is copied. For example if content is copied from console to memory unit and then copied from memory unit to console the licensing package will be present with the content on console .

Server s also include message services which permit a user on one console such as console to send a message to a different user on another console such as console . Such messages can include text messages voice messages video messages and specialized text messages known as invites in which a user on one console invites a user on another console to join them in a multi console session of a game.

In one embodiment of a Games blade user interface is opened at step . provides an example of a Games blade user interface. In Games blade is shown to contain a title a gamer card a banner area a banner area and a menu listing consisting of achievements played games arcade demos and trailers . Elements in list may be highlighted using a gamer controller. When an element is highlighted icons and text relative to the highlighted item appear in area . For example in the achievements element is highlighted resulting in icons being displayed in area that represent different achievements that the user has acquired for games they have played.

Gamer card includes information about the current user. This information includes the current user s Gamertag their reputation their Gamerscore and their preferred zone of play .

The user interface of also provides tabs and which can be used to bring up a Live blade a Media blade and a System blade respectively. The Live blade is discussed below. The Media blade allows the user to interact with different forms of media that may be attached to the console or stored on the hard disc drive of the console. The System blade provides user interfaces that allow the user to set preferences and system parameters such as the time zone of the console.

From Games blade the user can open arcade page at step by selecting arcade element in list . An example of the arcade page is shown in .

In the arcade page is shown on the games blade and includes a banner area a My Arcade Games selectable menu item a Download Games selectable menu item and a Recent Game selectable menu item . The selectable menu items and may be highlighted using the game controller. When a menu item is highlighted a description of the item is shown in description area . Banner can contain advertisements for games that can be downloaded including free demos of games as shown in where the x Bike is advertised for download.

Menu item when selected provides access to a My Arcade page discussed in below which lists the demonstration games and full version games that are stored on the console. Specifically if menu item is selected the storage devices connected to the console are searched to enumerate all games stored on the console at step . The enumerated games are then displayed in the My Arcade of at step . When menu item is selected the user is provided access to a list of games that can be downloaded to the console As discussed further below . Thus from the user interface of the user is provided with two selectable menu items one that indicates the ability to view games that are stored on at least one storage device in the console and another that indicates the ability to download games to the console.

Note that the user interface of is not stored on an optical disc but instead is stored either on the hard disc drive or ROM . As a result the user does not have to insert a disc in order to see the games stored on the console or to view games that can be downloaded to the console.

As noted above selecting Download Games menu item provides access to games that can be downloaded to the console. Under the embodiment this access is provided by first displaying a categories page user interface of that lists categories of games that can be downloaded.

Categories page may alternatively be displayed by navigating through a series of user interfaces beginning with Live blade which is opened in at step .

When a user selects a category item from category list in download services on server enumerates the games that are available on the server in that category by searching through the games database on database at step . Download services returns the list of available games to the console. At step the console displays a list of downloadable games in a user interface .

At step the user selects a game from list . In response an initial purchase Heads Up Display HUD is displayed at step . The purchase HUD will also be shown if the user selects a banner offer associated with a game at step . Such banner offers will appear in one or more of the banner areas noted in the user interfaces above.

In the user interface includes a game title more information menu item a Trial Game menu item and a Full Game menu item . Trial game menu item indicates that the trial game is free and Full Game menu item indicates that the full version of the game will cost points. A description of the game appears in description area which can include the size of the game. A membership level for the user and a current account balance are also displayed.

If the user selects Trial Game menu item at step a confirm trial game download HUD is displayed at step . provides an example of a confirm trial download HUD .

In confirm trial download HUD a title is provided that indicates the title of the game that is being purchased Save To area indicates the storage device that the game will be stored to on the console and Current Balance indicates the number of points the user has in their account. This Download item indicates that the download is free. HUD also includes a Confirm Download menu item a Redeem Code menu item a Change Storage Device menu item and a Cancel menu item . Change Storage Device menu item can be selected to change which storage device the game is saved to. Cancel menu item cancels the purchase. The user interface of also includes a description area that describes the size of the game and the contents of the game.

If the user selects confirm download menu item at step the full version of the game is downloaded at step and a demonstration licensing package for the game is downloaded at step . Note that in some embodiments the full version of the game and the demonstration licensing package are downloaded as a single item. The demonstration licensing package limits play in the game to a demonstration version of the game. As a result when the game is started the game will determine that there are insufficient permissions to allow the full version of the game to operate and only the demonstration version of the game will run. By downloading the full version of the game even though the user has only requested the demonstration version this embodiment makes it quicker and easier for the user to upgrade to an expanded version of the game at a later date.

Under some embodiments the download of the full version of the game and the demonstration licensing package is done in the background so that the user may continue to use the console for other purposes while the download is being completed.

If the user selects item of to download the full version of the game at step a confirm purchase HUD is shown at step .

When the user selects Confirm Download menu item at step console calls download purchase services to deduct the points for the game from the user s account and request the content package for the game if the game has not previously been downloaded at step . At step licenses are obtained for the game using the licensing services .

At step licensing service creates the user license package and at step licensing services creates the console licensing package. The creation of these packages includes encrypting the packages. At step licensing services returns the user license package and the console license package to the console. At step the console places the licensing packages in the downloaded game package. Through this placement the licensing packages will be transferred with the game if the game is later saved to a different memory device.

After the licenses have been obtained and the download is completed after either step or step the HUD is removed at step .

Once the download is complete the user may view the downloaded game by selecting My Arcade item of which will cause the list of downloaded games on the console to be displayed in a My Arcade user interface such as user interface shown in .

In the My Arcade user interface includes a title bar an All Games tab and a By Category tab . If By Category tab is selected games are shown under category headings. Under All Games tab shown in games are listed in alphabetical order. Alternatively the games may be sorted based on when they were last played by pressing the Y button on the controller as indicated by instruction . The All Games tab includes a listing of games that are stored on the console. Each entry in listing includes a game icon such as game icon and a game title such as game title . Using the controller the user is able to highlight a game.

When a game is highlighted a description area provides information about the user s performance in the game. In particular description area includes a Gamerscore for the user and an achievements area that describes achievements the user has obtained while playing the game. The Gamerscore indicates the number of Gamerscore points the user can or has earned relative to the number of Gamerscore points that may be earned. In alternative embodiments description area provides the high score achieved by the user. An achievement can be any number of items selected by the game developer including number of games won levels reached opponents beaten or the like. In some embodiments achievements that have not been earned are shown with a dimmed icon while achievements that have been obtained are shown with a bright icon so that it is apparent that some icons have been achieved while others have not. For instance achievements and are shown with a bright icon while achievements and are shown with a dimmed icon depicted in with dotted lines.

As indicated in by pressing the A button on the controller the user is able to select a game to view details of the game. provides a user interface for a selected game that has been downloaded in a demonstration version only. User interface includes a title bar that includes the title of the game a rating area that includes rating information about the game and a game description area that describes the game as being a demonstration version and that indicates that achievements for the game can be earned and recorded if the full game is unlocked or purchased. A menu list includes a selectable command for playing the trial demonstration game a selectable command for unlocking the full version of the game and a selectable command for deleting the game from the hard drive. If the user selects to play the trial game the trial version of the game is started. If the user selects to unlock the full game the purchase HUD of is brought up over the My Arcades Games page and the user is allowed to purchase the game simply by clicking on confirm download button .

In the user interface of no achievements are shown for the user since achievements are not available for trial versions of games. This provides incentive to the user to unlock the full version of the game.

The user interface of also includes a list of selectable commands that include the Play Game command the View Achievements Detail command the View Friend s Leaderboard command the Tell a Friend command and the Delete Game command . Using the game controller the user may highlight and select one of the commands in the list. If the user selects Play Game command the game is started and the user interface is removed. If the user selects View Achievements Details command a page showing details about the achievements obtained by the user and achievements that are still left to be obtained by the user is displayed. If the View Friend s Leaderboard command is selected a leaderboard is displayed on a new page. In some embodiments the achievements area is made smaller to accommodate the friend s leaderboard. The friend s leaderboard includes scores for friends of the user who have played this game. Under one embodiment the list of friends is displayed by displaying each friend sequentially beginning with the highest ranked friend. The leaderboard will include the current user if the user is ranked high enough.

Command creates a message that can be sent to a friend of the user to tell them about the game. Command deletes the game from the storage device that it is stored on.

In the user interface of it was shown that the user can unlock the full game by selecting the unlock full game command on the game details page. In addition under some embodiments the user is able to unlock an expanded version of the game while playing the game. provides a flow diagram for unlocking an expanded version of the game during play of the game.

In step the user launches the game by indicating that they want to play the game. At step the game queries its license and determines that game is licensed only as a demonstration version. At step play is initiated in the demonstration version of the game. At step the user pauses the game but does not close the game. As a result the game remains in RAM and cache memory and is considered to still be running.

At step the user selects a command to purchase an expanded version of the game from a list of menu items. In response the confirm purchase HUD of is displayed over the game at step . At step the user confirms the download of the game. In response the cost of the expanded version is deducted from the user s account at step and the console obtains the license for the expanded version of the game at step using the process described in the flow diagram of . In the flow diagram of licensing packages are downloaded to the console and are stored in the content package of the game. In other embodiments a message is sent by licensing services to console to alter the existing licensing package stored in the content package of the game so that the altered license provides permissions for playing the expanded version of the game. At step the purchase HUD is removed and at step the system notifies the game of a change in licensing. The game then queries for the license settings for the game at step using an application programming interface provided by the system. Based on the licensed settings the game makes an expanded version of itself available to the user at step . The user then continues play in the expanded version of the game at step without having to close stop or restart the game. Under some embodiments play resumes at the same point in the game where the user paused the game. Thus the expanded version of the game becomes available to the user without having to leave the existing game they are playing.

In the description above references have been made to obtaining an expanded version of a game. This may include obtaining the full version of the game or just incremental expansions of the game. Examples of possible game expansions include such things as additional levels maps characters or equipment. Thus the user may incrementally expand the game during play.

As noted above users are able to copy downloaded games from a hard disc drive on the console to a portable memory device. The user can then connect the portable memory device to a second console and upload the game onto that console. Thus users can spread games from one console to another. A method under one embodiment capitalizes on this game movement to help drive sales of games. provides a flow diagram for this method.

In step of a first user on a first console downloads a game with a console license and a user license. At step the user copies the game and the licenses to a portable memory device. Such portable memory devices can include flash memory units portable hard disc drives and other portable storage media. At step the user transports the memory device to another console and uploads the game onto the other console along with the user license and console license. At step the user logs into server through the second console. The user then plays the full version of the game on the second console based on the user license at step .

At step the user logs out of the server. At step a second user logs into the server and starts the game on the second console. At step the game queries for its licensing and determines that the console license on the game does not match the second console and that the user license does not match the second user. As a result the game limits play to a demonstration version at step instead of the full version. At step the game solicits the user to purchase the full version of the game to obtain the full functionality that the first user had on the second console.

Thus using the licensing scheme of the present invention users who do not possess a full version of a game are enticed to purchase the full version of the game by watching a first user play the full version of the game on their console after the first user has copied the game onto the second console. In this manner users help to drive the purchase of a game by other users by spreading the game to other consoles.

Under other embodiments purchases of full versions of games are driven by utilizing invites sent from one user to another to play a multi console game. provides a flow diagram of a method for driving purchase of a game through invites.

In step of the user selects an invitation message from a message queue causing the invitation to be displayed on the screen in the user guide as shown in .

In the invitation includes a gamer card that includes the Gamertag gamer icon reputation Gamerscore and zone of the gamer who has sent the invitation. The invitation also includes message text which indicates that a user with a particular Gamertag has invited this user to play a particular game. A command list is provided to the user and includes Accept Game Invite command Decline Game Invite command Reply command View Profile command and block communications command . The user may highlight and select each of these commands using the game controller.

At step of the user accepts the invite by selecting Accept Game invite command . At step the console system searches all storage devices connected to the console to determine if the game associated with the invitation is stored on any of the storage devices. If the game is found on a storage device at step the licensing for the game is inspected at step to determine if it allows multi console play. If the game is licensed for multi console play the game is started at step in a multi console mode.

If the game is not found on a storage device at step or if the user does not have a license to play the game in multi console mode at step the user is asked if they would like to download the full version of the game at step . Thus the invitation from another user has driven the solicitation of the user to purchase a full version of a game.

Thus in the process of one user s invitation to another user to play a game is utilized to drive the immediate purchase of the full version of the game on a console.

In the discussion above references are made to demonstration versions and trial versions of games. Both of these terms are meant to reflect limited versions of games that are not as extensive as expanded versions of the games.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

