---

title: Nitride based transistors for millimeter wave operation
abstract: Field effect transistors having a power density of greater than 5 W/mm when operated at a frequency of at least 30 GHz are provided. The power density of at least 5 W/mm may be provided at a drain voltage of 28 V. Transistors with a power density of at least 8 W/mm when operated at 40 GHz at a drain voltage of 28 V are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07566918&OS=07566918&RS=07566918
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07566918
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060223
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N00014 03 C 0092 awarded by The Office of Naval Research. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to semiconductor devices and more particularly to wide bandgap transistors configured for millimeter wave operation.

Materials such as silicon Si and gallium arsenide GaAs have found wide application in semiconductor devices. These more familiar semiconductor materials may not be well suited for higher power and or high frequency applications however because of their relatively small bandgaps e.g. 1.12 eV for Si and 1.42 for GaAs at room temperature and or relatively small breakdown voltages.

Accordingly interest in high power high temperature and or high frequency applications and devices has turned to wide bandgap semiconductor materials such as silicon carbide 2.996 eV for alpha SiC at room temperature and the Group III nitrides e.g. 3.36 eV for GaN at room temperature . These materials typically have higher electric field breakdown strengths and higher electron saturation velocities as compared to gallium arsenide and silicon.

A device of particular interest for high power and or high frequency applications is the High Electron Mobility Transistor HEMT which in certain cases is also known as a modulation doped field effect transistor MODFET . These devices may offer operational advantages under a number of circumstances because a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG is formed at the heterojunction of two semiconductor materials with different bandgap energies and where the smaller bandgap material has a higher electron affinity. The 2DEG is an accumulation layer in the undoped unintentionally doped smaller bandgap material and can contain a very high sheet electron concentration in excess of for example 1013 carriers cm2. Additionally electrons that originate in the wider bandgap semiconductor transfer to the 2DEG allowing a high electron mobility due to reduced ionized impurity scattering.

This combination of high carrier concentration and high carrier mobility can give the HEMT a very large transconductance and may provide a strong performance advantage over metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs for high frequency applications.

High electron mobility transistors fabricated in the gallium nitride aluminum gallium nitride GaN AlGaN material system have the potential to generate large amounts of RF power because of the combination of material characteristics that includes the aforementioned high breakdown fields their wide bandgaps large conduction band offset and or high saturated electron drift velocity. A major portion of the electrons in the 2DEG is attributed to polarization in the AlGaN.

HEMTs in the GaN AlGaN system have already been demonstrated. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 192 987 and 5 296 395 describe AlGaN GaN HEMT structures and methods of manufacture. U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 to Sheppard et al. which is commonly assigned and is incorporated herein by reference describes a HEMT device having a semi insulating silicon carbide substrate an aluminum nitride buffer layer on the substrate an insulating gallium nitride layer on the buffer layer an aluminum gallium nitride barrier layer on the gallium nitride layer and a passivation layer on the aluminum gallium nitride active structure.

Wide bandgap GaN based high electron mobility transistors HEMTs have come a long way as microwave devices since their description in in Khan et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. vol. 63 p. 1214 1993 and a demonstration of their power capability in 1996 in Wu et al. IEEE Electron Device Lett. vol. 17 pp. 455 457 September 1996. Many research groups have presented devices with power densities exceeding 10 W mm a ten fold improvement over conventional III V devices. See Tilak et al. IEEE Electron Device Lett. vol. 22 pp. 504 506 November 2001 Wu et al. IEDM Tech Dig. Dec. 2 5 2001 pp. 378 380 and Ando et al. IEEE Electron Device Lett. vol. 24 pp. 289 291 May 2003. An overlapping gate structure or field plate was used by Zhang et al. with GaN HEMTs for high voltage switching applications. Zhang et al. IEEE Electron Device Lett. vol. 21 pp. 421 423 September 2000. Following this Karmalkar et al. performed simulations for the field plate structure predicting up to five times enhancement in breakdown voltages. Karmalkar et al. IEEE Trans. Electron Devices vol. 48 pp. 1515 1521 August 2001. However fabricated devices at that time had low cutoff frequencies not suitable for microwave operation. Ando et al. recently used a similar structure with smaller gate dimensions and demonstrated performance of 10.3 W output power at 2 GHz using a 1 mm wide device on a SiC substrate. Ando et al. IEEE Electron Device Lett. vol. 24 pp. 289 291 May 2003. Chini et al. implemented a new variation of the field plate design with further reduced gate dimensions and obtained 12 W mm at 4 GHz from a 150 m wide device on a sapphire substrate. Chini et al. IEEE Electron Device Lett. vol. 25 No. 5 pp. 229 231 May 2004.

Recently GaN based HEMTs with electric field modification by field plates have boosted power density to greater than 30 W mm at frequencies up to 8 GHz. See e.g. Y. F. Wu et al. 30 W mm GaN HEMTs by Field Plate Optimization IEEE Electron Device Lett. Vol. 25 No. 3 pp. 117 119 March 2004. However since a field plate adds parasitic capacitances to a device and reduces gain the design and fabrication of a GaN based HEMT capable of millimeter wave operation has been difficult.

Millimeter wave transistor operation i.e. transistor operation at frequencies exceeding about 30 GHz presents additional challenges due to the switching speeds required for such frequencies. Notwithstanding these challenges millimeter wave devices have been demonstrated in gallium arsenide GaAs technology. In particular GaAs pHEMTs have achieved 8.5 W output from devices having a gate periphery of 14.7 mm during near millimeter wave operation. See e.g. M. R. Lyons et al. IEEE MTT S IMS Proceedings pp. 1673 1676 Fort Worth Tex. Jun. 6 11 2004. However for a given level of power output at a desired frequency of operation GaAs devices tend to be much larger than corresponding GaN based devices.

Applications for millimeter wave devices include digital radio transceivers for cellular communications backhaul and ground terminal transceivers for very small aperture terminals VSATs . Such devices may operate within radio bands up to 42 GHz including frequencies in the Ku 12 GHz to 18 GHz and Ka 26 GHz to 40 GHz frequency bands. Additional applications exist in E band 60 GHz to 90 GHz of millimeter wave frequencies.

Transistors having various combinations and or sub combinations of transistor characteristics described above may also be provided according to some embodiments of the present invention.

Embodiments of the invention provide a field effect transistor including a Group III nitride channel layer and a spacer layer on the Group III nitride channel layer. A gate contact is on the Group III nitride channel layer and is configured to modulate a conductivity of the channel layer when a sufficient voltage is applied to the gate contact. The gate contact has a gate length that is sufficient to permit modulation of the conductivity of the channel layer at frequencies exceeding 30 GHz. A lower field plate is electrically connected to the gate contact and extends across the spacer layer a distance Ltoward the drain contact. Lmay be at least about 0.1 m. Source and drain contacts are on the Group III nitride channel layer. The field effect transistor is configured to exhibit a power density of greater than about 5 W mm when operated at a frequency of at least 30 GHz. In some embodiments Lmay be about 0.25 m. The spacer layer may include SiN.

The field effect transistor may further include a Group III nitride barrier layer on the channel layer. The gate contact and the spacer layer may be on the barrier layer and the barrier layer and the channel layer may cooperatively induce a two dimensional electron gas in the channel layer near an interface between the barrier layer and the channel layer.

The barrier layer may include a first barrier sublayer on the channel layer and a second barrier sublayer on the first barrier sublayer. The first barrier sublayer may include AlN and the second barrier sublayer may include AlGaN wherein 0.15 x 0.45.

The first barrier sublayer may have a thickness of about 0 to about 4 nm and the second barrier sublayer may have a thickness of about 10 to about 50 nm.

The channel layer may include a first channel sublayer and a second channel sublayer on the first channel sublayer. The first channel sublayer may include GaN and may have a concentration of Fe dopants of at least about 1 10 cm. The second channel sublayer may include GaN and may have a concentration of Fe dopants therein that decreases with distance from the first channel sublayer.

The field plate may extend across the spacer layer toward the source contact by a distance Lof about 0.2 m.

The field effect transistor may have a power added efficiency PAE greater than about 30 . The field effect transistor may be configured to exhibit a power density of greater than about 8 W mm when operated at a frequency of at least 30 GHz. According to some embodiments of the invention the field effect transistor may be configured to exhibit a power density of greater than about 5 W mm when operated at a frequency of at least 40 GHz.

A field effect transistor according to some embodiments of the invention has a power density of greater than 5 W mm when operated at a frequency of at least 30 GHz. The power density of at least 5 W mm may be provided at a drain voltage of 28 V. The field effect transistor may have a PAE greater than about 30 .

A field effect transistor according to some embodiments of the invention has a power density of greater than 8 W mm and PAE greater than 30 when operated at a frequency of at least 35 GHz. A field effect transistor according to further embodiments of the invention has a power density of greater than 8 W mm and PAE greater than 30 when operated at a frequency of at least 40 GHz.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. However this invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the thickness of layers and regions are exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the specification.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented. above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an etched region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Embodiments of the present invention may be particularly well suited for use in nitride based devices such as Group III nitride based HEMTs. As used herein the term Group III nitride refers to those semiconducting compounds formed between nitrogen and the elements in Group III of the periodic table usually aluminum Al gallium Ga and or indium In . The term also refers to ternary and quaternary compounds such as AlGaN and AlInGaN. As is well understood by those in this art the Group III elements can combine with nitrogen to form binary e.g. GaN ternary e.g. AlGaN AlIiN and quaternary e.g. AlInGaN compounds. These compounds all have empirical formulas in which one mole of nitrogen is combined with a total of one mole of the Group III elements. Accordingly formulas such as AlxGa1 xN where 0 x 1 are often used to describe them.

While embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to particular structures other structures and or techniques for fabricating GaN based HEMTs could also be utilized in some embodiments of the present invention. Such structures and or techniques may include those described for example in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0066908A1 filed Jul. 12 2001 and published Jun. 6 2002 for Aluminum Gallium Nitride Gallium Nitride High Electron Mobility Transistors Having a Gate Contact on a Gallium Nitride Based Cap Segment and Methods of Fabricating Same U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0167023A1 to Smorchkova et al. published Nov. 14 2002 entitled Group III Nitride Based High Electron Mobility Transistor HEMT With Barrier Spacer Layer U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 617 843 filed Jul. 11 2003 for Nitride Based Transistors and Methods of Fabrication Thereof Using Non Etched Contact RecessES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 772 882 filed Feb. 5 2004 for Nitride Heterojunction Transistors Having Charge Transfer Induced Energy Barriers And Methods Of Fabricating The Same U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 897 726 filed Jul. 23 2004 entitled Methods Of Fabricating Nitride Based Transistors With A Cap Layer And A Recessed Gate U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 849 617 filed May 20 2004 entitled Methods Of Fabricating Nitride Based Transistors Having Regrown Ohmic Contact Regions And Nitride Based Transistors Having Regrown Ohmic Contact Regions U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 849 589 filed May 20 2004 and entitled Semiconductor Devices Having A Hybrid Channel Layer Current Aperture Transistors And Methods Of Fabricating Same U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0020092 filed Jul. 23 2002 and published Jan. 30 2003 for Insulating Gate AlGaN GaN HEMT and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 996 249 filed Nov. 23 2004 and entitled Cap Layers and or Passivation Layers for Nitride Based Transistors Transistor Structures and Methods of Fabricating Same the disclosures of which are incorporated herein as if described in their entirety.

Some embodiments of the invention provide wide bandgap field transistors having dual field plate configurations in which a second field plate is connected to the source contact of the transistor. Such transistors may have improved power capability and reduced gate to drain feedback capacitance.

Exemplary devices according to some embodiments of the present invention are schematically illustrated in . However embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular exemplary embodiments described herein but may include any suitable structure that provides transistor characteristics as described herein.

Turning to a partial HEMT device structure having a single field plate structure is illustrated. The structure includes a substrate on which nitride based devices may be formed. In particular embodiments of the present invention the substrate may be a semi insulating silicon carbide SiC substrate that may be for example a 4H polytype of silicon carbide. Other silicon carbide candidate polytypes include the 3C 6H and 15R polytypes. The term semi insulating is used in a relative sense. In particular embodiments of the present invention the silicon carbide bulk crystal has a resistivity equal to or higher than about 1 105 cm at room temperature.

An AlN buffer layer may be provided to provide an appropriate crystal structure transition between the silicon carbide substrate and the remainder of the device. The buffer layer may have a thickness of from about 100 nm to about 500 nm. In particular embodiments the buffer layer may have a thickness of about 200 nm.

Additional buffer layers transition layers and or nucleation layers as described above may be provided between the substrate and the channel layer . For example strain balancing transition layer s may also be provided as described for example in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0102482A1 filed Jul. 19 2002 and published Jun. 5 2003 and entitled Strain Balanced Nitride Heterojunction Transistors And Methods Of Fabricating Strain Balanced Nitride Heterojunction Transistors or United States Patent Publication No. 2004 0012015 A1 filed Jul. 19 2002 and published Jan. 22 2004 and entitled Strain Compensated Semiconductor Structures And Methods Of Fabricating Strain Compensated Semiconductor Structures the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

Appropriate SiC substrates are manufactured by for example Cree Inc. of Durham N.C. the assignee of the present invention and methods for producing are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. Re. 34 861 4 946 547 5 200 022 and 6 218 680 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Similarly techniques for epitaxial growth of Group III nitrides have been described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 210 051 5 393 993 5 523 589 and 5 592 501 the contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Although silicon carbide may be used as a substrate material embodiments of the present invention may utilize any suitable substrate such as sapphire aluminum nitride aluminum gallium nitride gallium nitride silicon GaAs LGO ZnO LAO InP and the like. In some embodiments a buffer layer appropriate to the type of substrate used may also be formed. For example in embodiments where a sapphire substrate is used the buffer may be formed as provided in U.S. Pat. No. 5 686 738.

Still referring to a channel layer is provided on the buffer layer . The channel layer may be under compressive strain. Furthermore the channel layer the buffer layer and or nucleation and or transition layers may be deposited by MOCVD or by other techniques known to those of skill in the art such as MBE or HVPE.

In some embodiments of the present invention the channel layer includes a Group III nitride and in particular includes GaN. The channel layer may be undoped unintentionally doped and or doped with a dopant and may be grown to a thickness of greater than about 20 . In particular embodiments of the present invention the channel layer is GaN and has a thickness of about 1.6 m.

As shown in the channel layer may include a first channel sublayer A formed on the buffer layer and a second channel sublayer B formed on the first channel sublayer A. The first channel sublayer A may have a thickness of about 0.1 0.8 m. The first channel sublayer A may be doped with Fe at a concentration of at least about 1 10 cm and in particular may have a Fe concentration of about 1 10 cm.

A metalorganic source gas such as Ferrocene may be used as a source gas for providing the Fe dopants when forming the first channel sublayer A using chemical vapor deposition. When the Fe source gas is switched off after the growth of the first channel sublayer A is complete some residual Fe may become incorporated into subsequently grown layers. That is some of the Fe source material may remain in the growth system even after the Fe source gas is switched off which may cause the concentration of Fe in the epitaxial layers to decrease relatively slowly after the source is switched off. Accordingly a second channel sublayer B may be provided on the first channel sublayer A. The second channel sublayer A may have a thickness of about 0.2 2.0 m and may be unintentionally doped. However as noted above the second channel sublayer B may include a concentration of Fe dopants that decreases with distance from the first channel sublayer A.

In particular embodiments the first channel sublayer A has a thickness of about 0.8 m and the second channel sublayer B has a thickness of about 0.8 m.

A barrier layer is provided on the channel layer . The barrier layer may have a bandgap that is larger than the bandgap of the channel layer and the barrier layer may also have a smaller electron affinity than the channel layer .

The barrier layer may be formed on the channel layer . In certain embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer includes an first barrier sublayer A on the channel layer and a second barrier sublayer B on the first barrier sublayer A. The first barrier sublayer A may include AlN and may have a thickness of about 0 4 nm. The second barrier sublayer B may include AlGaN and may have a thickness of about 10 50 nm. The second barrier B may have a mole fraction of aluminum of about 15 45 i.e. 0.15 x 0.45 . In particular embodiments the first barrier sublayer A may be about 0.8 nm thick. The second barrier sublayer B may have a thickness of about 25 nm and may have a mole fraction of aluminum of about 25 i.e. x 0.25 .

Examples of barrier layers according to certain embodiments of the present invention are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0167023A1 to Smorchkova et al. entitled Group III Nitride Based High Electron Mobility Transistor HEMT With Barrier Spacer Layer the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is thick enough and has a high enough Al composition and doping to induce a significant carrier concentration at the interface between the channel layer and the barrier layer through polarization effects.

A gate contact is provided on the barrier layer . Source and drain contacts and are provided as ohmic contacts on and or extending through the barrier layer . Ohmic contacts are processed e.g. by sintering to have a low resistivity connection through the barrier layer to the channel layer . For example the source and drain contacts may be formed on the barrier layer by electron beam evaporation and may be annealed for example at about 880 C. Thus as shown in after processing the ohmic contacts and may extend through the barrier layer to the channel layer . Electric current may flow between the source and drain contacts through a 2DEG channel induced in the channel layer near the interface between the channel layer and the barrier layer when the gate is biased at an appropriate level with respect to the source .

The gate may be formed for example using electron beam evaporation and may include a Ni Au structure having a layer of nickel about 10 500 nm thick and a layer of gold about 100 1000 nm thick. In particular embodiments the gate may include about 20 nm of nickel and about 500 nm of gold.

The gate may have a gate length Lof about 0.15 0.25 m for operation in the millimeter wave range i.e. at frequencies above about 30 GHz . In particular for millimeter wave operation the gate may have a gate length Lof about 0.2 m. Gate length L affects the transit time of carriers under the gate which in turn affects the operating frequency of the device.

A non conducting first spacer layer is provided on the barrier layer between the gate and the source and drain contacts . The first spacer layer may include SiN 2 x 4 3 y 5 having a thickness of about 50 300 nm. In particular embodiments the first spacer layer may include a layer of SiNhaving a thickness of about 200 nm.

The first spacer layer can be formed before device metallization and in some embodiments can be grown using the same epitaxial growth techniques as were used to form the barrier layer . The first spacer layer may include an epitaxial material such as a Group III nitride material having different Group III elements such as alloys of Al Ga or In with a suitable spacer layer material being AlGaN 0 x 1 . Alternatively the spacer layer may include SiN SiO Si Ge MgO MgN ZnO alloys and or layer sequences thereof. References to SiN SiON SiO MgNand the like refer to stoichiometric and or non stoichiometric materials.

The first spacer layer may then be selectively etched to provide an opening for the gate . Openings may also be etched for the source contact and the drain contact . During metallization the gate may be formed to be in electrical contact with the barrier layer .

The first field plate may be formed integral to the gate and may extend on the spacer layer a distance Lin the range of 0.1 to 0.3 m toward the drain contact and or a distance Lin the range of 0 to 0.3 m toward the source contact . In particular embodiments the first field plate may extend a distance Lof about 0.25 m toward the drain contact and a distance Lof about 0.2 m toward the source contact .

The first field plate may be electrically connected to the gate for example by its integral formation with the gate . The first field plate can extend continuously from the gate or can have breaks holes in the connection with the gate on either the source or drain side of the gate contact or both as long as enough conductive paths are available to effectively spread current between the gate and the first field plate .

Since the first field plate may be formed integral with the gate the first field plate may be formed for example using electron beam evaporation and may include a Ni Au structure having a layer of nickel about 10 500 nm thick and a layer of gold about 100 1000 nm thick. In particular embodiments the first field plate may include about 20 nm of nickel and about 500 nm of gold.

The source and drain ohmic contacts can be made of different materials including but not limited to alloys of titanium aluminum gold or nickel. The gate and first field plate can also be made of different materials including but not limited to gold nickel platinum titanium chromium alloys of titanium and tungsten or platinum silicide.

Transistors with field plates and methods of fabricating such transistors are described for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 078 265 filed Mar. 11 2005 and entitled Wide Bandgap Transistors With Gate Source Field Plates U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 930 160 filed Aug. 31 2004 and entitled Wide Bandgap Transistor Devices With Field Plates U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 856 098 filed May 28 2004 and entitled Cascode Amplifier Structures Including Wide Bandgap Field Effect Transistor With Field Plate and International Application Number PCT US04 29324 filed Sep. 9 2004 and entitled Fabrication Of Single Or Multiple Gate Field Plates the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in their entirety.

The dimension of the gate contact extending in a direction transverse to the gate length i.e. into and out of the page in is referred to herein as the gate width W. Power density is a normalized device characteristic that permits comparisons across different size devices. Power density is defined as power output in watts per millimeter of gate width or W mm.

A first exemplary device having a single field plate structure includes a high purity semi insulating SiC substrate . An AlN buffer layer is formed on the substrate and has a thickness of about 200 nm. A GaN first channel sublayer A is provided on the buffer layer and has a thickness of about 0.8 m. The first channel sublayer A is doped with Fe at a concentration of about 1 10 cm. A GaN second channel sublayer B having a thickness of about 0.8 m is formed on the first channel sublayer A. The second channel sublayer B is unintentionally doped but has a residual concentration of Fe dopants therein that decreases with distance from the first channel sublayer A.

A first barrier sublayer A is provided on the second channel sublayer B. The first barrier layer is formed of AlN and has a thickness of about 0.8 nm. A second barrier layer B including AlGaN with about 25 Al is provided on the first barrier sublayer A and has a thickness of about 25 nm.

A first spacer layer formed of SiNis provided on the second barrier sublayer B and has a thickness of about 200 nm.

Source and drain contacts and extend through the first and second barrier layers A B and are comprised of Ti Al Ni Au having respective thicknesses of about 10 nm 120 nm 30 nm 50 nm for a total thickness of about 220 nm. The gate contact is also provided on the second barrier sublayer B and is Ni Au with a total thickness of about 520 nm 20 nm Ni 500 nm Au . The first field plate is provided on the first spacer layer and has the same composition as the gate . Furthermore Lis about 0.15 0.18 m Lis about 0.2 m and Lis about 0.25 m. The gate to drain spacing LD is about 1.4 m and the gate to source spacing Lis about 0.8 m.

Performance of exemplary devices as described herein will now be described. Unless indicated otherwise the devices discussed below with reference to are devices having the exemplary structure described above. However embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to these particular devices but includes other devices capable of providing the performance characteristics described herein. Furthermore while various theories of operation are described herein embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to a particular theory of operation.

Power performance was characterized with a Focus load pull system at 30 40 GHz. The continuous wave CW power sweep at 40 GHz for a device having the exemplary unit cell device structure with a gate width W 150 m was measured and the results are shown in . The device was measured on wafer at room temperature and at a drain source bias V 28V. As seen in the device achieved approximately 7 W mm at an input level of 26 dBm. The associated power added efficiency PAE at 40 GHz was about 30 with a small signal gain of 5.7 dB large signal gain 4.0 dB . The device exhibited a maximum transconductance gof 370 mS mm and maximum drain current up to 1.4 A mm at a gate bias of 3V. The current gain cutoff frequency fwas 54 GHz and the power gain cutoff frequency fwas 110 GHz.

A 100 m gate width unit cell device was measured at 40 GHz and drain source bias of 28 V. The continuous wave CW power sweep at 40 GHz for the device is shown in . As seen therein the device exhibited 8.6 W mm and PAE of 33.6 at an input level of 25 dBm with a small signal gain of 6.1 dB and large signal gain of 4.1 dB.

The continuous wave CW power sweep at 30 GHz for a transistor device having the exemplary device structure with a gate width W 1.5 mm is shown in . At a drain source bias of 28 V the device produced an output power Pof 8.05 W at a PAE of 30.8 .

A scaled device having a gate width Wof 1.05 mm produced 5.15 W of output power and 31 PAE at 35 GHz.

Accordingly some embodiments of the invention may provide improved power performance for wide bandgap field effect transistors at millimeter wave frequencies. Some embodiments of the invention may provide high efficiency high power and or high gain operation and or more stable operation due to higher input output isolation i.e. decreased gate to drain capacitance C .

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms have been employed they have been used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

