---

title: Methods and apparatus for monitoring voice quality on a wireless communication device
abstract: Methods and apparatus for providing monitoring of voice quality and diagnostic data related to voice quality on a wireless device. Monitoring thresholds can be implemented that allow for additional precautionary measures and/or further monitoring to occur if a threshold level of voice quality performance is experienced. The results of the voice and diagnostic monitoring can be communicated to the service provider who can then collect, analyze and generate reports to assess and determine quality-related problems experienced by the communication network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07843991&OS=07843991&RS=07843991
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07843991
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060417
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 674 165 entitled Methods an Apparatus for Monitoring Voice Quality in a Wireless Device filed Apr. 21 2005 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described aspects relate generally to wireless communication devices and network communication. More particularly the described aspects relate to monitoring voice quality on a wireless communication device along with the collection reporting and analysis of voice data processing related data from the wireless device.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network.

Wireless communications devices such as mobile phones pagers handheld computers etc. are becoming increasingly popular for both business and personal use. One advantage of such devices is their wireless aspect allowing them to be utilized whenever and wherever a user desires. As the use of wireless devices grows and as the associated wireless communications networks grow users have an ever increasing expectation of high quality wireless communication. Thus one aspect of user satisfaction when utilizing a wireless device deals with the quality of the voice transmitted and received by the wireless device.

The voice quality experienced on a wireless device is affected by many different network conditions. For example voice quality can be affected by the Radio Frequency RF conditions the number of base stations i.e. cell sites in a geographical area the number of cell site hand offs experienced by a mobile wireless device and the like. As is the case in many instances when a user experiences persistent voice quality related problems the frustrated user may choose to change service providers with the hope that an alternative service provider will provide better voice quality service. From the service provider standpoint frustrated users who choose to change service providers results in lost customers i.e. lost revenues.

Currently many different means exist to measure the quality of voice in a wireless communication network. For example in voice telephony especially when codecs are used to compress the bandwidth requirement of a digitized voice connection the Mean Opinion Score MOS provides a numerical indication of the perceived quality of received human speech over the connection. The MOS is typically derived by executing an associated MOS algorithm or routine. The MOS is expressed as a single number in the range 1 to 5 where 1 is lowest perceived quality and 5 is the highest perceived quality. Many different algorithms can also be implemented to provide voice quality scores or measurements. For example Single Sided Speech Quality Measure 3SQM E Model Voice Quality Monitor VQmon Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality PESQ Perceptual Speech Quality Measure PSQM all of which are published and standardized by the International Telecommunications Union ITU . However the aforementioned voice quality measurement tests are limited in implementation to field tests in which a field technician travels throughout the network to gauge the effectiveness of the network or as quality control tests on newly manufactured or repaired wireless devices.

Therefore a need exists to develop devices apparatus and methods for monitoring voice quality of in use wireless devices or devices being used by the final customer or user. Such monitoring of the voice quality of in use wireless devices would provide service providers with real time data on network performance. By providing service providers with real time network performance data the service providers can efficiently and effectively pinpoint network related and or device related problems thereby providing user customers with proactive support. In this regard the service provider can gain an insight into existing or potential network related and or device related concerns and or deficiencies and proactively correct the problems. Additionally service providers often provide users with service level commitments as part of Service Level Agreements SLAs . Currently no means exists to accurately and efficiently measure and monitor the performance of these commitments. Therefore an additional need exists to provide real time monitoring of network performance in the form of voice quality monitoring so that service providers can effectively honor their SLAs.

The present methods apparatus device processors and computer program modules provide for continuous monitoring of voice quality and diagnostic data related to voice quality on a wireless device. The results of the monitoring can be communicated in real time to the service provider who can then collect analyze and or generate reports based on the voice quality data and the diagnostic data. The generated reports provide the basis for assessing quality related problems experienced by the communication network. In this regard the service provider can efficiently and effectively address network problems and or device problems thereby providing proactive support to users customers. Monitoring thresholds can be implemented that allow for additional precautionary measures and or further monitoring if a threshold level of voice quality performance is experienced.

In one aspect a method for monitoring voice quality performance on a wireless communication device is defined. The method performed at a wireless device includes monitoring voice data and related diagnostic data determining a voice quality score based upon the voice data and communicating the diagnostic data and at least one of the voice quality score or the voice data to a network device. According to some aspects determining the voice quality score involves executing a voice quality algorithm such as a Mean Opinion Score MOS algorithm Single Sided Speech Quality Measure 3SQM algorithm E Model algorithm Voice Quality Monitor VQmon algorithm Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality PESQ algorithm Perceptual Speech Quality Measure PSQM algorithm or the like. In alternate aspects the method may include comparing the voice quality score to thresholds and if a threshold is met taking an appropriate action. An appropriate action may include monitoring the voice quality data at an increased interval or monitoring based on the occurrence of predetermined events. Other appropriate actions to be taken if a threshold is met may include monitoring additional diagnostic data such as geographic position of the device Radio Frequency RF conditions and the like and or sending an alert notification to the wireless device user and or the service provider.

In another aspect a computer readable medium for measuring voice quality on a wireless communication device is defined. The computer readable medium includes at least one sequence of instructions that are executable by a wireless device processor to cause the processor to perform the steps of monitoring voice data and related diagnostic data determining a voice quality score based upon the voice data and communicating the voice quality score and the related diagnostic data to a network device.

In another alternate aspect a processor device implemented a wireless communication device is defined. The processor is configured to perform the operations of monitoring voice data and related diagnostic data determining a voice quality score based upon the voice data and communicating the voice quality score and the diagnostic data to a network device.

A wireless communication device for monitoring voice quality also defines present aspects. The device includes a storage unit operable for storing voice data and diagnostic data and a voice monitoring module in communication with the storage unit the voice monitoring module being operable for determining a voice quality score based upon the voice data and communicating the voice quality score and the related diagnostic data to a network device. The voice monitoring module may further include a voice quality routine that is executed to determine the voice quality score. Additionally the voice monitoring module may further be operable for comparing the voice quality score to one or more predetermined voice quality score thresholds and if a threshold is met increasing the rate of voice quality score determination communicating the voice quality data to the network device monitoring additional diagnostic data and or sending an alert notification to the device user and or the service provider.

In yet another aspect a method for analyzing voice quality performance in a wireless communication is defined. The method includes receiving at the network device voice quality scores and related diagnostic data from one or more wireless communication devices analyzing the voice quality scores and the diagnostic data and generating one or more voice quality reports based on the voice quality scores and the related diagnostic data. The generated voice quality report provides information that correlated diagnostic data to voice problems experienced on one or more wireless communication devices. Voice quality reports that are generated by the network device may include but are not limited to base station voice quality report a geographic area voice quality report a wireless communication device type voice quality report and a wireless communication device voice quality report.

A further aspect is defined by a method for configuring the monitoring of voice quality on a wireless device. The method includes configuring at a network device voice monitoring parameters and diagnostic monitoring parameters related to voice monitoring and communicating the voice monitoring parameters and diagnostic monitoring parameters to one or more wireless communication devices operable for monitoring voice data and diagnostic data according to the voice monitoring parameters and diagnostic monitoring parameters. The voice quality parameters may include voice data monitoring interval monitoring schedule monitoring triggering event voice score algorithm threshold condition and threshold limit. The diagnostic monitoring parameters may include position monitoring parameters power monitoring parameters hardware monitoring parameters application monitoring parameters and network device monitoring parameters data.

Yet another aspect is defined by a computer readable medium for analyzing voice quality performance in a wireless communication. The computer readable medium includes a sequence of instructions and execution of the instructions by a processor causes the processor to perform the steps of receiving voice quality scores and diagnostic data from a plurality of wireless communication devices analyzing the voice quality scores and diagnostic data and generating one or more voice quality reports based on the voice quality scores and related diagnostic data.

Further an aspect is described as being at least one processor device implemented in a network device configured to perform the operations of receiving voice quality scores and related diagnostic data from one or more wireless communication devices analyzing the voice quality scores and diagnostic data and generating one or more voice quality reports based on the voice quality scores and related diagnostic data.

In an alternate aspect a network device for managing wireless communication device voice quality is defined. The network device includes a voice quality parameter generating module operable to receive voice quality scores and related diagnostic data from wireless communication devices. The network device also includes a storage module operable for storing the voice quality scores and the related diagnostic data and a voice quality report generating module in communication with the storage module wherein the voice quality report generating module is operable for generating voice quality reports based on the voice quality scores and related diagnostic data.

Thus the aspects herein described provide for continuous monitoring of voice quality and related diagnostic data on a wireless device. The results of the monitoring can be communicated to the service provider who can then collect analyze and or generate reports based on the voice quality scores and related diagnostic data to assess quality related problems experienced by the communication network. In this regard the service provider can efficiently and effectively address network problems thereby providing proactive support to users customers. Monitoring thresholds can be implemented that allow for additional precautionary measures and or further monitoring to occur if a threshold level of voice quality performance is experienced.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

According to one aspect provides a schematic diagram representation of a system for monitoring voice quality at a wireless device. The system includes one or more wireless devices that are in wireless communication via wireless network with a network device such as user manager server . The wireless device includes a processing engine that is operable to execute a voice monitoring module . The voice monitoring module may be initially downloaded to the wireless device from a service provider such as customer care representative designated by Arrow A . Alternatively the voice monitoring module may be pre installed by the wireless device manufacturer or otherwise loaded onto the wireless device.

The voice monitoring module is operable for monitoring and logging voice data at either predetermined intervals or at the occurrence of predetermined events. The logged voice data is used by the voice monitoring module to determine a voice quality score . Additionally the voice monitoring module is monitoring and logging or otherwise capturing diagnostic data that is related to the voice performance of the wireless device. The voice quality score and or the voice data and the related diagnostic data are wirelessly communicated to the network device designated by Arrow B . The network device includes a processing engine that is operable to execute a voice quality report generator module . The voice quality report generator module is operable to generate one or more voice quality reports by analyzing the voice quality scores and the related diagnostic data communicated from the one or wireless devices. The voice quality reports provide correlation between the voice quality and the diagnostic data such that the reports assist in determining the cause or causes of voice performance degradation on one or more wireless devices. In turn the voice quality reports may be communicated to the service provider designated by Arrow C or to any other interested party for the purpose of managing the wireless network or monitoring the voice quality performance of the wireless devices deployed in the network.

Referring to according to one aspect a block diagram representation of a wireless communication device operable to monitor voice quality is depicted. The wireless device may include any type of computerized wireless device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless device includes computer platform that can transmit data across wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications and optionally display data transmitted from network device such as a user manager server or another computer device connected to wireless network . Computer platform includes a memory data registry which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data registry may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as voice monitoring module stored in the data registry of the wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on wireless network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In present aspects in which the voice monitoring module relies on subsystems to generate data such as voice data geographical position data radio frequency RF data and the like the subsystems may include but are not limited to vocoder monitor subsystem position determination subsystem diagnostic monitor subsystem and the like. In aspects in which the wireless device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processing engine may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the voice monitoring module .

The data registry of computer platform includes a voice monitoring module that is operable for executing voice quality logic . The voice quality logic is in communication with the voice data database that logs voice data . The voice quality logic relies upon configurable voice monitoring parameters that define monitoring characteristics. For example voice monitoring parameters may be configured such that the voice quality logic monitors i.e. logs voice data at a predetermined time interval within a predetermined time range and or at the occurrence of a predetermined event. Additionally voice monitoring parameters may be configured to define the monitored voice data. In some aspects the monitored voice data may be defined as voice samples that are logged from the vocoder monitor subsystem using the API layer .

In some aspects the voice quality logic is in communication with the diagnostic database that logs or otherwise stores diagnostic data that is related to the voice performance of the wireless device . The diagnostic data will typically be defined as data that has a negative or positive affect on voice quality performance. Diagnostic Data is subsequently communicated to the network device and is used in generating voice quality reports that correlate the diagnostic data with the voice score data for the purpose of determining the cause or causes of voice degradation on the wireless device. In this regard diagnostic database may be configured to store wireless device specific data and or may be data related to interaction between the wireless device and the wireless network. In some aspects the diagnostic data may include geographic position data radio frequency RF data and network devices in communication with the wireless device and the like. For example diagnostic database may include geographic position data RF environment data network entity data such as identification of network node i.e. IP base stations mobile switching centers or the like in communication with the wireless device or any other predetermined additional data such as wireless device hardware performance data application software performance data or the like.

The geographic position data may be retrieved from the Global Positioning System GPS monitoring subsystem that includes appropriate GPS mechanisms. The RF data provides for example wireless device signal power data and may be retrieved from the diagnostic monitoring subsystem . Relevant RF data retrievable from the diagnostic monitoring subsystem may include but is not limited to searcher and finger information for wireless devices employing Code Division Multiple Access CDMA protocol communication and wideband code division multiple access finger information for terminal adapter TA for devices employing Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocol communication.

The voice quality logic determines a voice quality score based on the monitored voice data . In many aspects the voice quality logic will execute one or more voice quality algorithms or routines to determine one or more voice quality scores . In some aspects the voice quality score is defined as a Mean Opinion Score MOS that may be calculated using any known or future MOS algorithm. Examples of known MOS algorithms include Single Sided Speech Quality Measure 3SQM defined by International Telecommunications Union ITU standard P.563 Perceptual Speech Quality Measure PSQM defined by ITU standard P.861 Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality PESQ defined by ITU standard P.862 E Model defined by ITU standard G.107 Voice Quality Monitor VQmon an extension of E Model not yet standardized by ITU and the like. It should be noted that the implementation of any one voice quality algorithm or MOS algorithm in the described aspects is not viewed as limiting the aspects herein described can be implemented using any currently known algorithm or any algorithm developed in the future. Voice quality scores may be logged in the voice quality score log that is stored in the voice data database .

In some aspects the voice monitoring module may include threshold logic for determining if the determined voice quality score meets a predefined voice quality score threshold. Thresholds parameters are typically defined by a configuration that occurs at the network device or some other network device and include a threshold value and a condition. The threshold value may be a numeric value for example a value that defines a limit associated with an acceptable or not acceptable voice quality score. For example the MOS score ranges from 1 to 5 and thus a threshold value that may be considered to identify an acceptable MOS score may be about 3 to about 4.5. The threshold conditions may include less than greater than equal to less than and equal to greater than or equal to or the like. For the sake of clarity the term meets a threshold is used herein to define the instance in which a measured value exceeds equals or falls short of the predefined value.

In instances in which the voice quality score meets a predefined threshold certain predefined actions may occur. These predefined actions are defined by threshold parameters and may be configured to occur if the threshold is met once or alternatively the threshold logic may be configured to provide for the occurrence of the predefined actions if the threshold is met a predetermined number of times. The predefined actions may include but are not limited to increasing the rate of monitoring voice data and determining a voice quality score monitoring additional wireless device related data and or communicating threshold notifications to the appropriate party of concern.

In some aspects if a threshold is met monitoring of voice data and determination of the associated voice quality score may occur at increased rates i.e. shorter intervals over a shorter time range at the occurrence of predefined events or at the occurrence of more predefined events i.e. events that did not trigger monitoring prior to the threshold being met . For example if monitoring of voice data and determination of the associated voice quality score occurs once every 2 seconds prior to a threshold being met monitoring of voice data and determination of the associated voice quality score may occur once every 5 milliseconds after the threshold has been met.

In other aspects if a threshold is met threshold logic may be operable for monitoring and storing diagnostic data or additional diagnostic data in diagnostic database . The threshold logic may be configured such that the occurrence of a threshold being met triggers an initial monitoring and storing of diagnostic data i.e. no monitoring of diagnostic data occurs until a threshold is met . In other aspects in which monitoring and storing of diagnostic data occurs prior to a threshold being met additional diagnostic data not previously monitored and stored may be monitored and or previously monitored diagnostic data may be monitored and stored at a second interval less than the initial interval.

In other aspects predefined threshold parameters may be configured within the threshold logic of the voice monitoring module that provide for generation of a threshold notification and communication of the same if the predefined alert threshold is met. If a threshold is met the threshold alert notification logic is implemented to generate an alert notification. The alert notification may subsequently be communicated via communications module to an appropriate party such as internally communicated to the user of the wireless device and or externally communicated to the service provider via a network device such as the user manager server or the like. In some aspects the threshold will be a network wide threshold implemented for all wireless devices that execute the voice monitoring module while in other aspects the service level provided to a user customer will dictate alert notification thresholds. For example based on a device characteristic such as a device or user identification device type or model device hardware or software versions a subscription level and or a customer service code different devices may have different thresholds. The alert notification may take the form of an email communication a Short Message Service SMS communication or the like.

Additionally in aspects in which the voice monitoring module is configured with threshold logic operable such that meeting the threshold results in increased monitoring and quality score determination and or the monitoring of diagnostic data or additional diagnostic data the logic may be configured to provide for the monitoring to return to a acceptable state after a predetermined time period or after a predetermined quality score has been attained or maintained for a predetermined time period. Acceptable state is herein defined as an acceptable quality score as configured within the voice monitoring parameters .

As previously noted computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless device as well as between the wireless device and the wireless network . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection. The communication module is operable for communicating the voice quality scores and or the voice data and or the diagnostic data to the network device . The voice monitoring module may be configured to communicate the voice quality scores voice data and or diagnostic data at a predetermined interval at the occurrence of a predefined event at the request of an authorized party such as the service provider network device or at any other point in time as defined by the voice monitoring module. In aspects that utilize voice quality score thresholds the voice monitoring module may be configured such that the voice data voice quality scores and or diagnostic data is communicated only after the occurrence of a threshold being met. Alternatively the voice data voice quality score and diagnostic data may be communicated both prior to the occurrence of a threshold being met and after the occurrence of a threshold being met. It is also noted the voice data the voice quality score and or diagnostic data may be configured to be communicated individually or jointly.

Additionally wireless device has input mechanism for generating inputs into wireless device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provides for user input to activate an application on the wireless device. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

Referring to according to another aspect a block diagram is illustrated of a network device such as a user manager server. The network device may comprise at least one of any type of hardware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further the modules and applications described herein as being operated on or executed by the network device may be executed entirely on the network device or alternatively in other aspects separate servers or computer devices may work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless device and the modules and applications executed by network device .

The network device has computer platform that can transmit and receive data across wireless network and that can execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes a data storage which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further data storage may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. The computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the network device as well as between the network device and the wireless network . For example in the described aspects the communication module is configured to communicate the voice monitoring module and associated voice quality monitoring parameters and threshold parameters to the wireless devices. In addition the communication module is configured to receive voice quality data such as voice quality score logs voice data logs and store such data in voice database . The communication module is also configured to receive diagnostic data such as position data RF data network entity data and additional diagnostic data and store such data in diagnostic database . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless communication connection.

The data storage of the network device includes voice quality monitoring configuration module operable to communicate the voice quality monitoring module to the wireless devices and to communicate configurable voice quality monitoring parameters and or configurable threshold parameters to the wireless devices. The configurable voice quality monitoring parameters include but are not limited to the voice data monitoring interval the voice data monitoring range and or events that trigger voice data monitoring. In addition the voice quality monitoring parameters may include specifics as to what voice related subsystem is to be monitored for example sampling of the vocoder monitor subsystem. The voice quality monitoring parameters may additionally define the voice quality routine or algorithm that is executed to determine the voice quality score. Additionally the voice quality monitoring parameters may define what diagnostic data is to be monitored and logged and specifics on how it is to be monitored and logged i.e. diagnostic data monitoring interval range triggering event or the like. In those aspects that implement voice quality score thresholds the voice quality monitoring configuration module will define the threshold values and the conditions surrounding the threshold value. Additionally the threshold parameters may define what is to occur upon having a threshold met. For example decreasing the monitoring interval of the voice data and or diagnostic data monitoring diagnostic data monitoring additional diagnostic data sending alert notifications or the like. Once the voice quality monitoring parameters and or the voice quality score thresholds have been defined the parameters and or the thresholds are communicated to the wireless device via communication module .

The data storage of the network device includes voice quality report generating module that is operable to generate voice quality reports based on voice quality score logs and diagnostic data. In addition the voice quality report generating module may rely on additional diagnostic data logs communicated from other network devices such as base station data or mobile switching center data communicated from network devices located at the respective network node. The voice quality report generator module includes data analysis logic for processing received voice score log data and diagnostic data such as position data RF data network entity data additional diagnostic data and the like into data that can manipulated by the voice quality report generator module . The voice quality reporting module additionally includes voice quality report generating logic for converting the analyzed log data into voice quality reports. The voice quality reports will provide correlation between the voice scores and the diagnostic data for the purpose of providing insight into the cause or causes of voice performance degradation. In this regard the voice quality reports may include any voice related data that is of interest to the party requesting or requiring the report function. Examples of voice quality reports include but are not limited to a base station voice quality report a geographic area voice quality report a wireless communication device type voice quality report and a wireless communication device voice quality report.

Wireless network includes any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between wireless device and any device connected to wireless network . Further wireless network may include all network components and all connected devices that form the network. For example wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network such as the MEDIAFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a BLUETOOTH technology network a ZIGBEE protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and a land mobile radio network.

Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to in one aspect wireless device for monitoring voice quality comprises a cellular telephone. A cellular telephone system may include wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and often can communicate packets including voice and data over wireless network . As described earlier these smart wireless devices have APIs resident on their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone and control certain functionality on the device. is a representative diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a cellular wireless network and the interrelation of the elements of one aspect of the present system. Cellular wireless network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In system network device can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with a separate data repository for storing the voice quality report generating module the voice quality scores the voice data or additional diagnostic data. Further a data management server may be in communication with network device to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. Network device data repository and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. Network device and or data management server communicate with carrier network through a data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless devices by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

At Event the network device initiates communication with the wireless device by sending a bootstrap command to the voice monitoring module of the wireless device. The bootstrap command may be sent using Short Message Service SMS communication Automatic Call Back ACB communication or any other suitable communication mechanism. At Event the voice monitoring module parses the bootstrap command and at Event the voice monitoring module invokes the communication module to initiate communication with the network device. In one aspect HyperText Transfer Protocol Transfer Control Protocol HTTP TCP is implemented as the communication protocol. At Event the voice quality monitoring configuration module invokes the communication module to download the configurable voice monitoring and threshold parameters from the network device to the wireless device. At Event the voice quality monitoring configuration module sends an acknowledgement message to the wireless device to notify the voice quality monitoring module that download of the configuration parameters is complete.

At Event the voice monitoring module of the wireless device begins monitoring the voice data and optionally diagnostic data and determining voice quality scores for the monitored voice data. At Event the voice quality module determines that a voice quality score meets a defined threshold for example indicating a decline in voice quality and the voice monitoring module responds by decreasing the voice data monitoring interval and monitoring diagnostic data or additional diagnostic data such as position data RF data and the like.

At Event the voice monitoring module desires to communicate the voice quality scores and the logged diagnostic data to the network device and invokes the communication module to initiate communication with the network device. In one aspect HyperText Transfer Protocol Transfer Control Protocol HTTP TCP is implemented as the communication protocol. At Event the voice monitoring module invokes the communication module to download the logged voice quality scores and the diagnostic data from the wireless device to the network device. At Event the voice monitoring module sends an acknowledgement message to the network device to notify the network device that download of the logged data is complete.

At Event the voice quality report generating module of the network device analyzes the voice quality score data and the diagnostic data and generates summary reports of the logged data. At Event the voice quality reports are communicated from the network device to the service provider customer care representative and at Event the service provider analyzes the reports and takes appropriate network or wireless device action to rectify areas of concern within the network or device.

Referring to according to one aspect a flow diagram is depicted detailing a method for voice quality monitoring on a wireless device. At Event a voice monitoring module of a wireless device is configured to monitor and log voice data and diagnostic data at a first predetermined interval. In alternate aspects the voice monitoring module may be configured to only initially monitor and log the voice data. Typically voice data is monitored by sampling voice data from a vocoder or some other device that records voice samples. The interval at which the voice and diagnostic data is monitored is defined within the configuration of the voice monitoring module. The service provider the device manufacturer the supplier of the voice monitoring module or any other entity that has access to the configuration parameters of the voice monitoring module may configure the predefined interval. In addition to monitoring at a predetermined interval the voice monitoring module may be configured to monitor within a predetermined time range and or monitor upon occurrence of a predetermined event

At Event the voice monitoring module determines a voice quality score for the monitored voice data. The voice quality score will be determined using a voice quality routine or algorithm. In some algorithms the voice monitoring module determines a Mean Opinion Score MOS using a known MOS algorithm such as Single Sided Speech Quality Measure 3SQM defined International Telecommunications Union ITU standard P.563 Perceptual Speech Quality Measure PSQM defined by ITU standard P.861 Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality PESQ defined by ITU standard P.862 E Model defined by ITU standard G.107 Voice Quality Monitor VQmon an extension of E Model not yet standardized by ITU or the like. In many aspects once the voice quality score has been determined the score will be logged within the wireless device in an associated voice quality score log.

At Event the wireless device communicates the voice quality score and diagnostic data to a network device. Communication of the voice quality score and diagnostic data may additionally include communication of the voice data. It should be noted that communication of the voice quality score to the network device may occur at any point in time and in most aspects is configurable within the voice monitoring module. In some aspects the voice quality score may be communicated individually after the score has been determined in other aspects the voice quality scores are logged and the cumulative logged scores are communicated to the network device at a predetermined interval upon occurrence of a predetermined event or at the bequest of service provider network device administrator. In certain aspects that implement voice quality score thresholds communication of the voice quality score and related diagnostic data occurs only after a threshold has been met.

At Decision the voice monitoring module determines if the voice quality score meets a predetermined threshold. As previously noted a threshold is defined by a value and a condition. Thresholds may be configured within the voice monitoring module that trigger monitoring at a decreased interval i.e. increased rate monitoring of diagnostic data monitoring of additional diagnostic data and or communicating an alert notification to an appropriate party of interest. Additionally a threshold may be configured that provides for the threshold to be met a predetermined number of times greater than one before a triggering event such as decreasing the monitor interval increasing the data monitored and or communicating an alert notification occurs. If the quality score does not meet the threshold then the voice monitoring module returns to Event and monitoring continues at the initial first predetermined interval.

If the quality score does meet a defined threshold then at Decision the voice monitoring module determines if meeting the threshold warrants an alert notification. The voice quality monitoring module may be configured such that all thresholds being met warrant an alert notification or it may be configured such that only certain predefined thresholds being met warrant an alert notification. Typically alert notifications will be sent to appropriate parties such as the service provider or the like if the voice monitoring module is configured to send such notices or if the voice quality score is well beyond or below the stated threshold. In some aspects the service level being provided to a wireless device user will dictate whether the voice monitoring module is configured to communicate alert notifications if a threshold is met. If a determination is made that the threshold being met warrants an alert notification then at Event an alert notification is communicated to the appropriate party or parties.

If a determination is made that the threshold being met does not warrant an alert notification or after an alert notification is sent then at Event the voice monitoring module will begin monitoring at second predetermined interval that is less than the initial first predetermined interval. For example if monitoring is initially conducted once every 1 second once a threshold is met monitoring may occur once every 5 milliseconds ms .

In addition to increasing the rate at which voice data is monitored the voice monitoring module may be configured such that a threshold being met triggers at Event the monitoring of diagnostic data or if diagnostic data was monitored prior to the threshold being met monitoring of additional diagnostic data. In addition voice monitoring module may be configured such that the occurrence of a threshold being met provides for monitoring the diagnostic data at a decreased interval. At event the voice quality scores the diagnostic data and optionally the voice data is communicated to the network device. As previously noted communication of the voice quality score the voice data and or the additional diagnostic data to the network device may occur at any point in time and in most aspects is configurable within the voice monitoring module.

At Event the voice monitoring module determines a voice quality score for the second interval monitored voice data and at Event a determination is made as to whether the voice quality score continues to meet a threshold. If a threshold is no longer met the process returns to Event and voice data monitoring is conducted at the first interval and monitoring of the diagnostic data and or additional diagnostic data may be suspended. Alternatively the voice monitoring module may be configured to return to the first predetermined interval only after a specified number of occurrences greater than one of the threshold no longer being met. If the threshold is still being met than the process returns to Event and voice data monitoring is conducted at the second interval and the monitoring of diagnostic date or additional diagnostic data continues. Alternatively in other aspects the voice monitoring module may be configured to suspend voice data monitoring at the second predetermined interval and the monitoring of diagnostic data or additional diagnostic data and return to the first predetermined interval after a predetermined time period or after the occurrence of other predefined events.

Referring to according to yet another aspect a flow diagram depicting a method for configuring a voice quality monitoring module is presented. At Event network device generates voice monitoring parameters and threshold parameters that serve to configure the voice monitoring module execute on wireless devices. Typically a service provider representative will communicate with the network device to configure the voice monitoring parameters for either individual wireless devices or plurality of wireless devices. As previously noted the voice monitoring parameters may include but are not limited to the rate or interval for monitoring voice data the event or events that trigger monitoring of voice data the specifics on what to monitor the routine or algorithm used to calculate the quality score diagnostic monitoring criteria and the like. Threshold parameter may include but are not limited to threshold limits threshold conditions what transpires when a threshold is met such as decreasing the monitoring interval monitoring of diagnostic data monitoring of additional diagnostic data generating and communicating alert notifications and the like. Voice monitoring parameters and threshold parameters may be configured at the onset of implementing the voice quality monitoring module at the wireless device or the voice monitoring parameters can be re configured at any point in time while the wireless device s are executing the voice monitoring module. At Event the network device communicates the generated voice monitoring parameters to one or more wireless devices. Typically the network device will initiate wireless communication with the wireless devices and proceed with wirelessly downloading the voice monitoring and threshold parameters to the wireless device. The voice monitoring and threshold parameters may be communicated to the wireless device s upon generation of the parameters or alternatively the generated parameters may be stored and subsequently communicated at a predetermined time to the wireless device s .

Referring to according to yet another aspect a flow diagram depicting a method for generating voice quality reports is presented. At Event a network device receives voice quality score data and diagnostic data from one or more wireless devices. The diagnostic data may include but is not limited to position data RF data network entity data other diagnostic data or the like. As previously discussed the need to monitor and subsequently communicate diagnostic data is based on configuration of the voice quality monitoring module implemented on the wireless device. Monitoring of diagnostic data may be configured to occur throughout the monitoring of voice data or monitoring of diagnostic data may be limited to occurring only when a voice quality score threshold has been met. The diagnostic data is instrumental in providing insight into why a wireless device or wireless devices are experiencing voice quality related problems within the wireless communication network.

At Event the network device analyzes and processes the voice quality score data and diagnostic data received from the wireless devices. In some aspects the network device will receive data in logged format and as such the data will require appropriate processing and analysis prior to generating voice quality reports. At Event the processed and analyzed voice quality score data and diagnostic data is implemented to generate voice quality reports. The voice quality reports will correlate the diagnostic data with the voice quality scores to provide insight into the cause or causes of voice quality degradation in the wireless device wireless devices or network. As previously noted the voice quality reports may be specific to an individual wireless device or the voice quality reports may be based on a plurality of wireless devices throughout the wireless network. The voice quality reports may be based on any voice quality data received from the wireless devices implementing the voice quality module other wireless devices not implementing the voice quality module other network device or any other data related to voice quality. Voice quality reports may be based on any network or device attribute. For example voice quality reports may be based on base station or other network node interaction voice quality score power i.e. RF data positional data such reports based on wireless devices within a specified geographical area or voice quality scores within a specified geographic area and the like.

At Event the network device will communicate the voice quality reports to the service provider. Communication may occur across the wireless network or across a wired network. Any acceptable form of communication may be used for example the reports may be communicated via electronic mail e mail file transfer or the like. Once communicated to the service provider the service provider representative may analyze the reports to identify problems related to the network or to specific wireless devices and take appropriate actions to rectify the problems within the network or at the device level.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or aspect unless stated otherwise.

Thus the described aspects provide for continuous monitoring of voice quality on a wireless device. The results of the monitoring can be communicated to the service provider who can then collect analyze and or generate reports to assess quality related problems experienced by the communication network. In this regard the service provider can efficiently and effectively address network problems thereby providing proactive support to users customers. Monitoring thresholds can be implemented that allow for additional precautionary measures and or further monitoring to occur if a threshold level of voice quality performance is experienced.

Many modifications and other aspects of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

