---

title: Credentials for blinded intended audiences
abstract: Techniques for creating and using credentials for blinded intended audiences are provided. A principal desires access to a target service. An identity associated with the target service is hidden from an identity service via a random identifier. The identity service supplies an assertion with credentials and the random identifier. The principal sends the assertion and an access message, which also includes the random identifier to the target service. The target service compares the identifier included with the message to the identifier in the assertion and when a match occurs access is permitted to the target service, assuming other credentials associated with the assertion are satisfied as well.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08468359&OS=08468359&RS=08468359
owner: Novell, Inc.
number: 08468359
owner_city: Provo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060630
---
The invention relates generally to security and more particularly to techniques for creating and using credentials for blinded intended audiences.

Security is a major concern in today s highly connected economy. Enterprises and individuals are increasing conducting monetary proprietary or otherwise personal transactions over the World Wide Web WWW and Internet.

Moreover it is not just secrecy that is at issue for Internet transactions. For example malicious users are regularly attempting to infiltrate devices of unsuspecting users to install monitoring devices and or to unleash viruses. Furthermore this can occur with Internet transactions that users would not usually view as being private or needing any extra protection.

To address these problems the industry has generally integrated a number of different approaches into existing WWW browser and email technologies. One approach is to issue certificates that WWW browsers automatically validate for sites being visited by users. Certificates typically have a long life. Consequently there is an increased chance that certificates can be surreptitiously acquired and used in an unauthorized fashion. Another approach is to use short term credentials such as keys that expire upon events or expire after elapsed periods of time.

Short term credentials are generally distributed by a credential issuer. Short term credentials rely on the identity of the requestor and rely on the identity of the intended service for which the credentials are being issued. In this manner access to the intended service requires a credential that identifies the intended service by name and that identifies the requesting user.

However short term credentials can also pose a privacy threat for users. This is so because the credential issuer knows everywhere the user is going on the Internet and can track the user and track usage patterns of the user. A certificate does not experience this problem because with a certificate the user does not have to visit a credential issuer each time access to an intended service is desired. But a certificate is not service specific and is long lived so it may be more easily intercepted and acquired by malicious intruders to masquerade on the Internet as the user or even as the intended services that the user desires to access.

Therefore it is advantageous to provide techniques that retain the benefits of short term credentials and yet eliminate the privacy threat associated with conventional credential issuers.

In various embodiments techniques for creating and using credentials with blinded intended audiences are presented. More specifically and in an embodiment a method for creating credentials for a blinded intended service is provided. Initially a random and unique identifier is acquired and then added to a message. The message is blinded and sent along with another copy of the identifier to an identity service. Next an assertion and a blinded signature are received for the blinded message the assertion includes the identifier. The assertion an unblinded version of the signature and the message are then sent to a target service that represents the blinded intended service for access.

As used herein a service is a type of resource that is accessible over a network. The service is implemented as instructions that when loaded and accessed by a machine performs one or more functions that the service is advertised to perform. A principal is another type of resource that may be an automated service or may logically represent a physical resource within an electronic environment such as but not limited to a user a device a group of users a group of devices an object etc.

An identity service refers to a special type of service that is designed to manage and supply authentication services and authentication information for principals and for other services. So an identity service may authenticate a given principal for access to a variety of local and external services being managed by that identity service. A single principal may have multiple identity services.

According to an embodiment some example identity services are described in Techniques for Dynamically Establishing and Managing Authentication and Trust Relationships filed on Jan. 27 2004 and having the U.S. Ser. No. 10 765 523 Techniques for Establishing and Managing a Distributed Credential Store filed on Jan. 29 2004 and having the U.S. Ser. No. 10 767 884 and Techniques for Establishing and Managing Trust Relationships filed on Feb. 3 2004 and having the U.S. Ser. No. 10 770 677 all of which are commonly assigned to Novell Inc. of Provo Utah and the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

A principal is recognized via an identity. An identity is authenticated via various techniques e.g. challenge and response interaction cookies assertions etc. that use various identifying information e.g. identifiers with passwords biometric data digital certificates digital signatures etc. . A true identity is one that is unique to a principal across any context that the principal may engage in over a network e.g. Internet Intranet etc. . However each principal may have and manage a variety of identities where each of these identities may only be unique within a given context given service interaction .

As used herein attributes may be viewed as types of identifying information such as but not limited to birth date mother s maiden name pet s name last transaction for a given context age employment income level social security number SSN etc.

The true identity of a principal is typically managed and controlled by an identity service such as the ones enumerated above. The identity service may also manage the principal s other identities that the principal uses with services for which the principal interacts in a variety of different contexts.

Identifying information and attributes associated therewith may be viewed as credentials associated with a principal. Assertions are supplied by identity services to principals and the assertions include credentials of those principals for accessing principal desired services.

Various embodiments of this invention can be implemented in existing network architectures. In some cases the techniques presented herein may be implemented as enhancements to existing services. These enhancements may be integrated into the existing services or accessed externally via Application Programming Interfaces API s . According to the techniques presented herein are implemented in whole or in part in the Novell network client proxy server products email products identity service products operating system products and or directory services products distributed by Novell Inc. of Provo Utah.

Of course the embodiments of the invention can be implemented in a variety of architectural platforms operating and server systems or applications. Any particular architectural layout or implementation presented herein is provided for purposes of illustration and comprehension only and is not intended to limit aspects of the invention.

The principal service processes on behalf of a principal. In an embodiment the principal service may process within a WWW browser or as a transparent or forward proxy that the principal s WWW browser interacts with either knowingly or unknowingly.

Initially the principal desires access to a target service or intended service this may also be referred to as intended or target audience . The principal wants to communicate with the target service securely using credentials such that the communication is valid just between the principal and the target service. But the principal does not want to disclose to an issuing service such as an identity service that the targeted credentials are for the target service. That is the principal wants to blind the identity service as to the identity of the intended audience which is the target service.

With this context the processing of the principal service is now discussed with reference to . At the principal service acquires a random and unique identifier which the principal service will use to associate with the target service intended audience .

According to an embodiment at the random identifier may be acquired or generated in a number of manners. For example the principal service may manage and generate random identifiers itself independent of any external or third party service. Alternatively an issuing service may be used to acquire random identifiers for use by the principal service. The issuing service is not aware of the association between the random identifier that it supplies and the target service that association is known to just the principal service and is managed by just the principal service. In still other cases the principal service may generate one random or first identifier and request a second random identifier from an issuing service. This principal service may then combine the two randomly generated identifiers to produce the random identifier that the principal service uses. In some cases the principal service may acquire or cooperate with the identity service to acquire the random identifier. But even in these cases the identity service is not aware of the association between the random identifier and the target service.

At the principal service adds the random identifier to an access message request. The access message is a message that the principal service will subsequently present to the target service to gain access to resources of the target service. The access message may also include a target service or resource identifier in addition to the random identifier and the request for access.

At the principal service blinds the message. The blinded message includes the random identifier and the target service or resource identifier. Just the principal service retains the ability to decrypt the blinded message.

In an embodiment at the principal service uses a blinding algorithm. In this manner the identity service may supply a signature for the blinded message and the principal service may unblind that signature associated with the blinded message to produce a new version of the signature that will match a signature that may be generated for the unblinded message or native message.

At the principal service uses its own key to blind the message and that key is not shared to others for purposes of decrypting the message. So the principal service blinds with a key that is unknown to an identity service with which the principal service will subsequently interact in the manners discussed below.

At the principal service sends the blinded message and a copy of the random identifier to an identity service. Examples or identity services were supplied above and incorporated by reference herein. In some embodiments the identity service may be an enhanced credentialing service that is designed to accommodate the processing discussed herein.

At the principal service also makes a request for a credential. That is the principal service wants the identity service to supply it a credential for accessing the target service but the identity service is not aware of the identity of the target service. All the identity service has is the random identifier and a blinded message that it may not inspect.

According to an embodiment at the request may ask for specific credentials for use with the target service. So the principal service may inform the identity service of the attributes that it has to have to access the target service without disclosing the identity of the target service. Typically the attributes would be resolved for a principal based on the identity of the principal and the identity of the target service but here the identity service is unaware of the identity of the target service. So the principal service may specifically instruct the identity service as to the credentials and attributes that it wants for a subsequent use unknown to the identity service but known to the principal service as being for access to the target service.

At the principal service receives an assertion and signature back from the identity service. The assertion includes the random identifier. The assertion also includes the credentials that the principal has to have to authenticate to the target service which the principal service requested. The signature is produced by the identity service for the blinded message data. Moreover the assertion itself may be signed by the identity service. The signature associated with the blinded message data is unblinded by the principal service.

Subsequently at the principal service unblinds the blinded message and sends the message which has the random identifier and a target service identifier along with the assertion and an unblinded version of the signature of the blinded message to the target service for access.

Example processing associated with how a front end service of a target service may process this information to validate access to its resources is provided below with respect to the method and . Moreover example processing with respect to the identity service is presented below with respect to the method and .

Essentially the principal service has acquired credentials that are specifically directed to a target service for purposes of gaining secure access to that target service from a credentialing service. The credentialing service provides the credentials without being aware of the identity of the target service. So the credentialing service cannot profile or track the activities of a requesting principal that interacts with its principal service. This provides privacy and yet retains the benefits of service specific credentialing.

The identity service may be viewed as an enhanced credentialing service that is designed to supply credentials for random identifiers associated with unknown services for known and authenticated principals. The identity service may also sign messages that it cannot view essentially a blinded signature and may also sign the credentials it supplies. That is the identity service signs blinded messages sent by a principal via its principal service. The example interaction and processing associated with a principal service was supplied in detail above with respect to the method of the .

At the identity service receives a credential request from a principal. The credential request includes a random identifier supplied by the principal and a blinded message which the identity service is unable to view or inspect. The blinded message also includes the random identifier and a target service identifier or resource identifier. The identity service cannot view the target service identifier but it assumes that it is present in the blinded message and is being actively hidden from the identity service for privacy purposes.

According to some embodiments at if the principal is not already authenticated when contacting the identity service with the credential request then the identity service authenticates the principal for access. The identity service and principal are in a trusted and secure relationship with one another.

In yet more embodiments at the identity service may have previously provided the random identifier that was included with the credential request to the principal during previous interactions with the principal. This may have occurred via a separate transaction entirely with the principal. Alternatively the identity service may have supplied a first random identifier and the principal used its own second random identifier or another mechanism to derive the random identifier. The point is the identity service may supply or assist in supplying the random identifier to the principal but the identity service is not aware of the association between the random identifier and the target service with which the principal desires to access with a credential service specific access mechanism.

At the identity service generates a credential having the random identifier included therein. In some cases at this may entail acquiring attributes and or authentication statements for the principal which the principal will subsequently use to authenticate to and gain access with the target service and its resources. At the credential may also be created and circumscribed by policy that is associated with the principal and managed by the identity service.

At the identity service signs the blinded message that accompanied the credential request and essentially produces a blinded signature for the blinded message. The credential and signature are used by the principal to gain access to and authenticate with the target service which the identity service is unaware of. In some cases the identity service may also sign the credential in addition to signing the blinded message provided by the principal.

At the identity service supplies the credential and the blinded signature of the blinded message back to the principal. In some cases at this is provided as an assertion to the principal for authenticating and accessing the target service. Example interactions of the principal via its principal service were presented above with respect to the discussion of the method and the . The processing associated with the front end of the target service that interacts with the principal or principal service is presented below with respect to the method and the .

The front end service may be implemented as a wrapper or reverse proxy for the target service. That is the front end service need not be integrated into the legacy code associated with any given target service rather the front end service may transparently be integrated into an environment of a legacy target service as a wrapper or reverse proxy that intercepts initial communications requesting access to resources of the target service.

At the front end service receives an unblinded or native format message from a requesting principal to access one or more of its resources. This message is accompanied with a variety of credentials. Accordingly at the front end service verifies initial credentials included within an assertion supplied by an identity service on behalf of the principal. That is the identity service such as the identity service discussed above with respect to the method of the supplied an assertion to the principal and the principal presents that assertion to the front end service to authenticate for initial access to the resources controlled by the front end service. If the credentials are stale or invalid at the time presented by the principal then the front end service denies access to the resources.

At the front end service locates the assertion associated with the message requesting access. This assertion will include a variety of information that the front end service may want to inspect and verify before full access to the resources of the front end service is provided to the requesting principal. One piece of information is a random identifier that as will be seen below the front end service will use to ensure it is the proper recipient of the access message request.

At the front end service acquires a target service identifier and a first identifier from the message. The message is not blinded when supplied by the principal as it was when it was sent to the identity service by the principal for purposes of acquiring the assertion and an initial message signature.

At the front end service obtains a second identifier from the assertion. At this point the front end service has three identifiers two acquired from the message and one acquired from the assertion. The two acquired from the message include the target service identifier and if all is proper a copy of the identifier acquired from the assertion. The identifier in the assertion is a random identifier that up until this point in time only the principal knew to be associated with the target service identifier.

At the front end service denies access to the resources when the target service identifier does not match one of its resource identifiers. That is the front end service verifies that the target service that the principal is requesting is within its purview and known to the front end service. If this is not the case then access to the resources are denied.

At the front end service compares the first identifier acquired from the assertion to the second identifier included in the access message. When there is a match the request for access to the resource may proceed. When there is not a match then access to the resources is denied.

In an embodiment at the front end service may also obtain a signature that accompanied the assertion and access request message. The signature was initially generated by the identity service for a blinded version of the access request message. Subsequent to that the principal unblinded the blinded version of the signature and the version received with the message by the front end service is unblinded. The front end service then proceeds to generate its hash for the access request message in its native format unblinded or native format . The unblinded first signature and independently generated hash are compared with one another and if they do not match access to the resources of the target services may be denied. Recall that the blinding algorithm used by the principal may be one in which an unblinded signature is the same as a signature for a native version of a message.

It has now been demonstrated how a variety of processing may be used to create and use credentials for blinded intended audiences. This processing retains the benefits of service specific credentials and eliminates the privacy concerns associated with acquiring credentials from a credential issuer since at no time is the credential issuer identity service aware of the identity of the intended audience target service .

It is also noted that the methods and of the respectively may be implemented in some embodiments as instructions. The instructions when accessed by a machine produce the processing of the methods as depicted in the and as described above. The instructions may be initially housed on removable media and subsequently interfaced to a machine for processing. Alternatively the instructions may be prefabricated within memory and or storage of a machine. In still more cases the instructions may be downloaded from one network machine to another network machine.

It should also be noted that in some cases the term blinded may be used interchangeably with encrypted and the term unblinded may be used interchangeably with decrypted. The cases where this is not appropriate is where the blinded signature is unblinded although if an algorithm were subsequently developed such that a signature for encrypted data would match a signature for the decrypted data then the terms in question may be used interchangeably in every case.

The blinded intended service credentialing system includes a front end service a principal service and an identity service . Each of these and their interactions with one another will now be discussed in greater detail.

The front end service is implemented as a wrapper or reverse proxy associated with a target service. The target service and its resources may be viewed as a blinded intended audience because it is the intended service of a requesting principal and the identity of the target service is unknown to or blinded from the identity service . The interactions of the front end service were presented above with respect to the method of the . The front end service interacts with the principal service .

The front end service is to receive and process access request messages for resources associated with a target service. To do this the front end service authenticates requestors and verifies other credentialing information. A principal supplies an access request message via the principal service . The access request message includes a target or resource identifier and a random identifier. If the target or resource identifier does not match what is known to the front end service then access is denied to the resources.

If the target or resource identifier does match what is known to the front end service then the front end service acquires another version of the random identifier from an assertion originally created by the identity service on behalf of the principal and supplied to the front end service from the principal service with the access request message. If the random identifier included in the assertion does not match the random identifier included with the access request message then the front end service denies access to the resources of the target service. If there is a match then access is permitted or may continue with additional verification.

According to an embodiment the additional verification performed by the front end service may include validating a signature that accompanies the assertion believed to be from by the identity service for the access request message against an independent hash generated for the access request message by the front end service . If a match occurs access to the resources is permitted if not access is denied. The signature initially supplied by the identity service was for a blinded version of the access request message. The principal service then unblinds the signature and that is what the front end service validates.

The front end service may also invalidate or deny access if credentials supplied in the assertion by the principal become stale or invalid. So if a principal waits too long or logs out of a browser session as one example the credentials supplied to the front end service may be determined to be stale by the front end service and access may be denied. The front end service may also actively and in real time monitor credentials as the principal accesses the resources of the target service.

The principal service operates on behalf of a requesting principal from within an environment of that principal. In some cases the principal service may be integrated within a WWW browser of the principal or may be a transparent or forward proxy of the principal and its interactions with the Internet. Example processing associated with the principal service was presented above with respect to the method of the .

The principal service manages acquires and perhaps independently generates random and unique identifiers. The identifiers are each associated with a specific target service. The principal service blinds the access request message that is ultimately going to be sent to the front end service for purposes of gaining access to resources of a desired target service and its resources. The access request message includes a random identifier and a target or resource identifier. The blinded message is sent to an identity service for purposes of acquiring credentials to access the target service. The blinded message is also accompanied with a copy of the random identifier. The identity service supplies back credentials via an assertion and a signature for the blinded access request message. The principal service forwards that along to the front end service after unblinding the signature for purposes of gaining access to the resources of the target service.

The identity service receives credential requests from the principal via the principal service and in response generates an assertion having the credentials and a blinded signature for the blinded version of the access request message supplied by the principal service . The assertion includes the random identifier. The identity service is unaware of the identity of the target service or the resources. The identity service knows about and processes the random identifier but does not know of the association between the random identifier and the target service or its resources.

The identity service may also dole out random identifiers to requesting principals or may assist the principals in generating the random identifiers. The identity service also signs the blinded access request message supplied by the principal service but is unaware of its contents and cannot inspect or view the message.

It is also noted that the assertion can be a represented in different formats by the identity service . For example the assertion may be a Kerberos ticket etc.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of embodiments should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing description of the embodiments various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Description of the Embodiments with each claim standing on its own as a separate exemplary embodiment.

