---

title: Estimation based approach to determine the retransmission timeout value for access probe retransmissions
abstract: Systems and methods for reducing latency in a group communication system including transmitting an access probe; establishing predetermined criteria relating to communication parameters; and setting a retransmission timeout value at a communication device based upon the predetermined criteria, wherein the retransmission timeout value is an amount of time the communication device waits for an acknowledgment following the transmission of the access probe before it initiates retransmission of the access probe.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07881738&OS=07881738&RS=07881738
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07881738
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061212
---
The present invention generally relates towards reducing latency in a communication network. More particularly the present invention relates to reducing initial push to talk PTT latency during call setup in a group communication system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xRTT 1x and 1xEV DO standards 1xEV for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations or access terminals receive signals from fixed position base stations that support communication links or services within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. One or more of these base stations can be organized into a group referred to as a cell. In order to aid in providing coverage each cell is often sub divided into multiple sectors each corresponding to a smaller service area or geographic region. An array or series of base stations placed adjacent to each other form a communication system capable of servicing a number of system users over a larger region.

Typically each mobile station monitors a control channel that can be used to exchange messages between the mobile station and the base station. The control channel is used to transmit system overhead messages whereas traffic channels are typically used for substantive communication e.g. voice and data to and from the mobile station.

For example the control channel can be used to establish traffic channels control power levels and the like and is known in the art. Generally there are two types of power control for the reverse link open loop and closed loop power control. The open loop power control typically occurs prior to the mobile terminal establishing contact with a base station. The closed loop control occurs after the mobile and the base station are in communication and the base station can measure the received power levels and feedback power level adjustments to the mobile terminal.

In the open loop condition the reverse link power for an initial communication signal e.g. access probe from the mobile terminal to the base station can be determined by monitoring specialized signals from a base station or access point. For example in CDMA systems a pilot signal can be used to estimate the channel condition and then determine a power estimate for transmitting back to the base station. The accuracy of the channel conditions and power estimation can greatly impact performance of the system particularly in terms of latency of the system. For example 1 and 1 EV systems will transmit an access probe at a first power level based on a power control algorithm. If the first access attempt does not succeed then the probe is resent at increasingly higher power levels until it is successful or the power level maximum is reached.

In addition to the message loss due to power related issues e.g. channel fading time varying RoT etc. Access Channel losses can also occur because of access probe collisions may be the case in geographically dense group calls. Losses that are caused due to the fading of the wireless channel can be minimized by increasing the transmit power of access probes. Losses due to probe collisions over the Access channel can be mitigated by ensuring that probe transmissions that are synchronized with respect to each other do not transmit their probes at the same time.

Additionally the increased data delivery capability of modern wireless communication systems has provided a platform for enhanced data services in addition to or instead of conventional voice services. Examples of such services include Voice over IP VoIP text and video messaging group communications streaming video and the like. A group communication system may also be known as a push to talk PTT system a net broadcast service NBS a dispatch system or a point to multi point communication system. Typically a group of access terminal users can communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. The term group member denotes a group of access terminal users authorized to communicate with each other.

The group may operate over an existing communications system without requiring substantial changes to the existing infrastructure. Thus a controller and users may operate in any system capable of transmitting and receiving packet information using Internet Protocol IP such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system satellite communication systems combinations of land line and wireless systems and the like.

In conventional group communication systems all members of the group are paged and granted access to the group communication after responding to the page. Typically an originator access terminal initiates a request for a group communication and all members of the group targets are paged. As each member of the group responds to the page they are granted access to the communication so that all members can participate listen in on the communication.

A class of wireless services intended for quick efficient one to one or one to many group communication has existed in various forms for many years. In general these services have been half duplex where a user presses a push to talk button on a phone radio to initiate a group call. If granted the floor the talker then generally speaks for a few seconds. After the talker releases the PTT button other users may request the floor. These services have traditionally been used in applications where one person a dispatcher needs to communicate with a group of people such as field service personnel or taxi drivers which is where the dispatch name for the service comes from.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for reducing latency and improving session control in group communication systems.

Accordingly one aspect of the invention discloses a method for reducing latency in a group communication system including transmitting an access probe establishing predetermined criteria relating to communication parameters and setting a retransmission timeout value at a communication device based upon the predetermined criteria wherein the retransmission timeout value is an amount of time the communication device waits for an acknowledgment following the transmission of the access probe before it initiates retransmission of the access probe.

Another aspect of the invention can include an apparatus comprising logic configured to transmit an access probe logic configured to establish predetermined criteria relating to communication parameters and logic configured to set a retransmission timeout value at a communication device based upon the predetermined criteria wherein the retransmission timeout value is an amount of time the communication device waits for an acknowledgment following the transmission of the access probe before it initiates retransmission of the access probe.

Another aspect of the invention can include a system comprising means for transmitting an access probe means for establishing predetermined criteria relating to communication parameters and means for setting a retransmission timeout value at a communication device based upon the predetermined criteria wherein the retransmission timeout value is an amount of time the communication device waits for an acknowledgment following the transmission of the access probe before it initiates retransmission of the access probe.

Another aspect of the invention can include a computer readable media on which is stored a computer program comprising instructions which upon being executed causes the computing device to perform a method of transmitting an access probe establishing predetermined criteria relating to communication parameters and setting a retransmission timeout value at a communication device based upon the predetermined criteria wherein the retransmission timeout value is an amount of time the communication device waits for an acknowledgment following the transmission of the access probe before it initiates retransmission of the access probe.

Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs base station transceivers BTS base stations BS or more generally as access points. An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or mobile switching center MSC . These elements are parts of a network called an access network or radio access network RAN . An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals. The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more access points is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more access points is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel and or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the access point is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which an access point sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can typically refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Additionally although exemplary embodiments of the invention may be described or illustrated in terms of a wireless system and specific technologies such as CDMA 1x and 1xEV systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to the illustrated systems. For example embodiments of the invention can include any system that can be used to establish a group communication.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network a core network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a MPC MSC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC MSC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC MSC is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice communication. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS MPC MSC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art.

Referring to the access terminal e.g. a communication device a wireless device a handset etc. such as a cellular telephone for example has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor can execute the application programming interface API layer that may interface with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications data not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media soft or hard disk and the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly aspects of the invention may include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

As used herein access terminal includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein. Some examples of access terminals or wireless devices which may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include cellular telephones or other wireless communication units personal digital assistants PDAs paging devices handheld navigation devices handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and MPC MSC . The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN .

As discussed in the background a group communication system may include a group of access terminal users that communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. Although group communication systems PTT systems may be considered to be among several members the system is not limited to this configuration and can apply to communication between individual devices on a one to one basis. Group members may communicate with each other using an assigned access terminal AT such as ATs and . The ATs may be wireline or wireless devices such as terrestrial wireless telephones wireline telephones having push to talk capability satellite telephones equipped with push to talk functionality wireless video cameras still cameras audio devices such as music recorders or players laptop or desktop computers paging devices or any combination thereof. Furthermore each AT may be able to send and receive information in either a secure mode or a non secure clear mode. It should be understood that reference to an access terminal AT is not intended to be limited to the illustrated or enumerated examples and may encompass other devices that have the capability to transmit and receive packet information in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

When a group member wishes to transmit information to other members of the group the member may request the transmission privilege by pressing a push to talk button or key on an AT which generates a request formatted for transmission over a distributed network. For example using AT the request may be transmitted over the air to one or more MPTs or base stations . A MPC MSC which may include a well known inter working function IWF packet data serving node PDSN or packet control function PCF for processing data packets may exist between MPT BS and the distributed network. However the requests may also be transmitted through the public switched telephone network PSTN to a carrier network . The carrier network may receive the request and provide it to the RAN for delivery to an access terminal.

Additionally the initial transmit power e.g. IP or P is determined based on the channel load. Accordingly both the initial random backoff and the enhanced transmit power determination is used to increase the probability of successful receipt of the access probe.

A prediction algorithm uses past observations of the backhaul delay to determine an appropriate value for subsequent access probe transmissions over the Access Channel. By exploiting the temporal correlation of the backhaul delay over short time scales the prediction algorithm is able to set the retransmission timeout value as small as necessary.

Dynamic adjustment of the retransmission timeout value results in a significant reduction in delay particularly when the network is lightly loaded. This characteristic is particularly useful for push to talk PTT calls since it helps to reduce the initial PTT latency during call set up.

The retransmission timeout value e.g. ACC TMO in CDMA 1X is set at the handset based on the value defined in the Enhanced Access Parameters message. This value is not adjusted dynamically during access probe transmissions and can often be conservative.

The retransmission timeout value ACC TMO is set at the handset based on the value defined in the Enhanced Access Parameters message. The retransmission timeout value is the amount of time the handset waits for a L2ACK following transmission of an access probe before it initiates retransmission of the access probe.

As an example for a PTT access probe this value should be set to as small a value as possible while accounting for the backhaul processing delay as well as the OTA delay of transmitting a L2ACK 20 msec . For example if ACC TMO is set to 7 which is equivalent to 160 msec 7 1 20 . This setting implies that the expected backhaul delay is 140 msec. In a very lightly loaded system the backhaul delay was observed to be 40 msec a significantly lower value compared to 140 msec. One can conclude that under ideal conditions the retransmission timeout value could potentially be set as low as 40 20 60 msec. The additional 20 msec is needed to account for the OTA delay of the L2ACK.

This would tend to indicate that the retransmission timeout value prior to every transmission over the Access Channel based on recently observed values of backhaul delay.

The retransmission timer is initialized according to the value specified by the Access Parameters message e.g. 140 20 160 msec. Upon reception of a L2ACK following the transmission of the first message over the Access Channel.

For example the retransmission timer value at the target handset prior to transmission of the ANNOUNCE ACK message can be set based on the observed backhaul delay in getting an L2ACK for the 8026 Page Response message. Similarly the retransmission timeout value for the ORIGINATION message at the target handset could take into account both the observed backhaul delay following transmission of the 8026 Page Response message as well as the backhaul delay following transmission of the ANNOUNCE ACK message. The originator handset can set the retransmission timer value for all messages it transmits following the CALL message in a similar manner.

1. The observed backhaul delays of all prior transmissions following the first message transmission for the new Call over the Access Channel.

2. The autocorrelation function of backhaul delay over the F CCCH or alternately some parametric curve that provides us information about the temporal correlation of the backhaul delay over time intervals.

Using the above two items as inputs and applying Levinson s algorithm it is possible to determine the retransmission timeout value for the next probe transmission as a weighted sum of the observed backhaul delays with the weights computed by solving a series of linear equations.

If the auto correlation function of the backhaul delay is not available as an input a first order Autoregressive Moving Average algorithm ARMA can be used to determine the retransmission timeout value. This algorithm is a simple weighted moving average algorithm that evolves as 1 1 

Where ACC TMO k 1 is the retransmission timeout value set for the k 1 th probe transmission X k is the observed backhaul delay following the kth probe transmission and n k is a zero mean random process that models random variations in the backhaul delay is a constant that must be set to an appropriate value that is less than 1 and is a constant that must be set to an appropriate value that is less than or equal to 1. For example if messages transmitted over the F CCCH are scheduled on a frame by frame basis then n k will be distributed in the interval 10 10 msec. If messages transmitted over the F CCCH are scheduled on a slot by slot basis then n k will be distributed in the interval 40 40 msec. While adjusting the retransmission timer based on previous samples of the round trip times provides an accurate estimate of the expected time of arrival of the L2ACK there is no significant penalty if retransmissions are initiated prior to the arrival of the L2ACK. Specifically if the retransmission was invoked and an L2ACK message was received while retransmission procedures are in progress then the retransmission procedures are aborted in a CDMA network. Therefore the tolerance underestimating the retransmission timer value does not result in a significant over the air resource utilization Access Channel . However in order to limit frequency of retransmissions the retransmission timer must not be set to an unreasonably small value. Given these trade offs an optimal value of can be determined. Overestimating the retransmission timer can result in additional delays in initiating retransmissions. Therefore the prediction algorithm is biased via the parameter to limit overestimation to a sufficiently small probability.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other types of algorithms e.g. autocorrelation algorithms moving averages algorithms etc. may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Care must be taken in determining the backhaul delay particularly when L2ACKs are piggybacked with SDB messages. In such cases it would be favorable if the piggybacked L2ACK precedes the SDB message transmission. Transmitting a L2ACK at the end of the SDB message can delay the arrival of the L2ACK by the OTA time of the SDB message and as a result cause unnecessary timeouts at the handset. In the event that a piggybacked L2ACKs trails the SDB message the backhaul delay must be determined by deducting the OTA time of the SDB message from the round trip time of the L2ACK. In a communication system the backhaul refers to the communication link between a controller and an access point.

Further the arrangement of the logic elements is merely for the convenience of illustration and should not be construed as limiting embodiments of the invention. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the functionality of the logic elements described herein may be integrated into one element or distributed as desired among various hardware and software elements.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there is no particular order of performing and executing the method functional blocks intended or implied in the preceding description. The foregoing methods discussed above can be used by themselves or in any combination thereof to achieve the same objective.

In further embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing methods can be implemented by the execution of a program embodied on a computer readable medium such as the memory of a computer platform. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM accessible by or residing within the client device and or server. Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as direct access storage device DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only media e.g. ROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to those embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The activities or steps of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described in the singular the plural is contemplated unless the limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

