---

title: Waterjet drive hovercraft with adjustable trim system
abstract: A flexible skirt-cell system is provided for a hovercraft having a propulsion system mounted to interface with water and a flexible skirt having an upper flexible panel section and a lower flexible finger section. The panel section extends around the bow, stern and two sides of the hovercraft hull and the finger section extends around the hull below the panel section and is connected to the panel section from a forward-abeam location and forward along the two sides and across the bow. Fans create pressurized air that is fed through air ducts to form a pressurized air cushion that supports the hovercraft. Interconnected flexible cells are connected between the panel and finger sections from the forward-abeam locations rearward to the stern. Additional air ducts pass pressurized air from the fan units to inflate the cells, thereby elevating the stern and raising the propulsion system above the water.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07428939&OS=07428939&RS=07428939
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07428939
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060731
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention relates to amphibious hovercraft vehicles. More particularly this invention is to a hovercraft vehicle having a waterjet water propeller drive system capable of being raised above the water air interface by a skirt cell system for traversing dry land soft mud marsh and tidal flat areas.

Hovercrafts also known as Air Cushioned Vehicles ACVs are typically marine craft that ride on a pressurized cushion of air. The air cushion serves to separate the vehicle from the surface over which it operates allowing freer movement and greatly decreasing the hydrodynamic drag. The lower drag allows much greater speeds to be achieved at lower drive power when compared to conventional displacement hulls. Powered lift fans are needed to maintain the flow of pressurized air under the vehicle due to the flow of air escaping from the cushion and the amount of air escaping is typically minimized by including some sort of flexible fabric system known as a skirt in order to better contain the air cushion by conforming more closely to irregular operating surface such as waves or uneven terrain.

The separation of the hovercraft vehicle from the surface makes it potentially capable of truly amphibious operation. This means it has the ability to traverse dry land as well as open water in addition to soft mud marsh or tidal flat areas impassible to any other type of vehicle. However amphibious capability is only achievable if the means of propulsion is not restricted to only water borne use. This means that systems incorporating water propellers and or waterjet drive propulsion cannot be used in amphibious hovercrafts as these will not be effective for land or very shallow water operations. Furthermore these water drive mechanisms will generally need to be located below the vehicle s normal waterline where they would drag along the ground during land transit and impede movement and damage the mechanisms. As a result amphibious hovercrafts typically employ some means of air propulsion usually air propellers or sometimes air is ducted from the lift fans and directed to achieve thrust for propulsion.

The disadvantage of the air propulsion systems normally employed with amphibious hovercrafts is that they are very inefficient and noisy. Air propellers also require a large amount of vehicle space and because of vibration exposure to sand and ingestion of water maintenance issues arise.

By contrast propulsion by waterjet propeller systems is much more efficient quiet and compact and consequently this means of propulsion is being used reliably in many commercial marine vehicle applications. Higher fuel efficiency means that a heavy lift hovercraft can carry more payload in lieu of fuel or can carry a payload for greater distances. Waterjet propeller propulsion systems are more harbor friendly in that the vehicle can operate in restricted waterways next to piers and other crafts without blasting them with high velocity air and waterspray as well as undue noise.

However conventional designs for hovercraft vehicles are presently incapable of effectively incorporating the advantages of both hovercraft and waterjet propeller propulsion systems. This operational inability is due to design limitations inherent in conventional hovercraft design. Normally the gap beneath the hovercraft also known as cushion height is adjustable by varying the air flow and pressure to the cushion. Changing the cushion height is easily done by either adjusting the fan speed or by controlling the flow with adjustable vanes inserted into the air ducts feeding fan air to the cushion. If a conventional hovercraft were to include water propulsion means such as a waterjet intake located on the hull underside the vehicle could potentially increase its cushion height to the point where no contact would be made with the land surface for overland operations. Land transit would not be impeded provided that the vehicle employed alternate means for land propulsion such as air jets or mechanical traction devices. However to put the waterjet intake into contact with the water to allow it to draw in water would necessarily require that the hull underside be in close proximity with the water surface. Such close contact would impede the waterborne operational capability of the hovercraft in all but the calmest water conditions as wave interaction with the hull would impede the water transit and negate the advantages of the air cushion i.e. the cushion height would not be large enough.

Thus in accordance with this inventive concept a need has been recognized in the state of the art for a system for adjusting trim of a hovercraft vehicle to maintain the majority of the underside of the hovercraft vehicle s hull a suitable distance from the water surface for waterborne operations and to raise up the hovercraft where the waterjet intakes or water propellers are located for land operations by selectively inflating or deflating strategically located skirt cells to control the elevation of the waterjet intakes or water propellers.

An object of the invention is to provide a hovercraft capable of land transit and having waterjet or water propeller propulsion systems.

Another object of the invention is to provide a hovercraft propelled by waterjet or water propeller propulsion systems being capable of transitioning across beaches and over land.

Another object of the invention is to provide a hovercraft having a plurality of extensible cells to raise waterjet intakes or water propellers to allow traversal of dry land soft mud marsh and tidal flat areas.

Another object of the invention is to provide an amphibious hovercraft provided with selectively extensible and retractable cells to allow traversal of dry land soft mud marsh and tidal flat areas and more efficiently traverse open water via waterjet or water propeller propulsion systems.

Another object of the invention is to provide an amphibious hybrid craft having selectively extensible and retractable skirt cells to allow use of waterjet or water propeller propulsion systems that permit greater speed during high speed transit in open water.

These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.

Accordingly the present invention is to an inflatable skirt cell system for an amphibious hovercraft. The hovercraft has a hull having a bow stern and two sides in its periphery and at least one propulsion system is mounted on the hull to extend below and physically interface with a water surface over which the hovercraft is traveling. A flexible skirt has an upper flexible panel section and a lower flexible finger section. The upper panel section extends around the bow stern and two sides of the hull adjacent to the periphery. The lower finger section extends around the hull below and adjacent to the upper panel section and is connected to the upper panel section from a forward abeam location and forward along the two sides and across the bow. Lift fan units create volumes of pressurized air and have first and second air flow ducts. The first air flow ducts are coupled to lift fan units for passing portions of pressurized air under the hull inside of the flexible skirt to form a pressurized air cushion to support and transport the hull. An inflatable cell system is connected between the upper panel section and the lower finger section from the forward abeam location on the two sides aft or rearward along the sides and across the stern of the hull. The inflatable cell system has a juxtaposed series of interconnected flexible inflatable cells connected to the second ducts for inflating the cells to raise the propulsion system above the water. A first controllable vane that could be one or a series of several vanes is provided in each first air duct a second controllable vane that could be one or a series of several vanes is provided in each second air duct and an auxiliary propulsion means is mounted on the hull to propel the hovercraft on land areas. Selective control of the first controllable vane s and first air duct passes portions of pressurized air to create the air cushion under the hull selective control of the second controllable vanes and second air flow ducts assure the inflating of the inflatable cells with additional portions of the pressurized air and the raising of each propulsion system and selective control of the second controllable vanes and second air flow ducts allows deflation of the inflatable cells for lowering each propulsion system into the water. The inflatable cells of the juxtaposed series start at forward abeam locations on both of the sides and have progressively increasing volumes as the series progresses to the stern where they have substantially the same volumes as they extend across the stern.

Referring to a flexible inflatable skirt cell system of the invention is provided on a hovercraft to adjust the trim of the hovercraft . Trim adjustment allows a waterjet propulsion system or water propeller water screw propulsion system to propel hovercraft at high speed across open water or alternatively permits hovercraft to transit across different areas of land .

Waterjet propulsion system or water propeller propulsion system have demonstrated greater speeds and increased levels of operating efficiency and control when hovercrafts operate across open water as compared to conventional means for propelling them i.e. air propellers . However these propulsion systems at the water air interface cannot operate successfully over land so their advantages cannot be realized for conventional hovercraft. Skirt cell system of the invention provides an effective and reliable means to retract the water jet water propeller propulsion systems from the water air interface and permits overland operations by a hovercraft having a flexible skirt extending from a hull .

Referring to typically hovercraft has one or more water jet propulsion systems only the nearest propulsion system is shown and each interfaces with a streamlined mounting structure A extending from hull . When operating on open water a water intake port B can draw in some of ambient water at or below the water air interface. A shaft C driven by a propulsion motor not shown in hull can rapidly rotate a water turbine mechanism D to forcefully pump out or expel the drawn in water at high velocity through a discharge pipe E that may have articulating nozzles not shown for steering the hovercraft. Propulsion system is not suitable for operation on land.

The water propeller propulsion system of has a conventional shaft mounted propeller A that may have a variable pitch and be reversible to implement steering. It is connected to an inboard propulsion motor not shown in hull and held to extend to and below the water air interface by stanchions B connected to hull . More than one such propulsion system can be and usually is provided on hovercraft . Propulsion system is not suitable for operation on land.

Hovercraft has a flexible skirt continuously connected to hull about its periphery to continuously extend downwardly from hull around the lower perimeter of hovercraft . Although different shapes for hull can be made typically most hovercraft have an essentially rectangular shape so that skirt has a rectangular shape to contain a pressurized cushion of air or air cushion beneath hull . Creation of a supporting air cushion makes hovercraft truly amphibious and allows high speed transit of hovercraft across open water and passage over land areas including irregularities and obstacles. Such hovercraft are well known in the art and have on board machinery to generate cushion . Only one gas turbine driven propeller like lift fan unit of machinery is shown. In accordance with sound and well established marine design criteria sufficient numbers of lift fan units are provided to create an air cushion inside of skirt and to distend and maintain skirt so that it supports hovercraft .

Referring to each unit forces a portion shown by the arrow of the total volume of air cushion through a separate first air flow duct through hull so that the combined outputs of all lift fan units additively force sufficient volumes of pressurized air to create and maintain air cushion for transit maneuvering and hovering of hovercraft . Each first air flow duct has at least one controllable first vane to selectively pass and change the volume of each portion of pressurized air fed to pressurized air cushion beneath hull . A control system not shown for the vanes can be located e.g. at the craft operator s station or other convenient location on hovercraft . This feature allows operators on hovercraft to change the flow rates and thus the pressure in air cushion to accommodate ongoing changes in payload speed water conditions and terrain for examples.

Referring also to skirt is fabricated to continuously extend downwardly from hull from perimeter and has an upper flexible panel section connected to hull and lower flexible finger section . Lower finger section has a length of its upper edge interconnected in a secure and sealed juncture along a length of the bottom edge of upper panel section . This juncture extends forward from forward abeam locations A on both sides of hull only the location A on the near side being shown and wraps across where skirt extends across the front or bow of hovercraft .

Upper panel section and lower finger section of skirt can be made like many other skirt and finger structures currently being utilized in contemporary hovercraft. Therefore panel section and finger section are made from proven known materials having sufficient strength toughness and flexibility to withstand the rigors of operational usage and to bear the stresses and strains routinely created as hovercraft repeatedly makes high speed runs over water and travels over land .

As mentioned previously lift fan units of on board machinery on hovercraft each pass a portion of pressurized air that collectively make sufficient volumes of pressurized air to create and maintain air cushion for support and transport of hull over water and land. Fan units of machinery also each create an additional portion shown as arrow of pressurized air that is fed to inflatable cells of skirt cell system of the invention.

Skirt cell system includes a plurality of second air flow ducts each coupled to a separate lift fan unit to feed each portion of pressurized air to one or more inflatable cells . At least one separate controllable second vane in each second air flow duct passes controlled amounts of each portion from each second air flow duct to inflate the interconnected inflatable cells . The controllable second vanes can be controlled by the same control system mentioned above that controls the first vanes. Inflatable cells of skirt system of the invention can thus be selectively inflatable with pressurized air portions . This causes the stern of hovercraft to rise up which in turn will elevate waterjet propulsion system or water propeller system above the surface and permit overland travel of hovercraft without dragging and damaging the more efficient water propulsion systems or on land .

Inflatable cells of skirt cell system are flexible bag like structures made from tough flexible material like the material of flexible panel section . The bag like structures of inflatable cells are made in an interconnected juxtaposed series that have progressively increasing volumes as series of inflatable cells progresses and extends from forward abeam positions A on hull on opposite sides of hovercraft aft or rearward to its stern . Across the stern the size or volume of the cells are each substantially the same. Series of inflatable cells is interposed between and secured along an elongate secure and sealed juncture to upper edge of lower finger section and secured along an elongate secure and sealed juncture to bottom edge of upper panel section . These secure sealed junctures and extend in skirt aft on both sides of hull from sealed juncture points A and across the back of stern of hovercraft . Optionally the material that inflatable cells of skirt cell system are fabricated of may also have elastic properties that permit cells to expand and contract as portions of pressurized air are fed to them. This type material eliminates the need for other means for venting away pressurized air when it is desirable to deflate series of inflated cells for example when a land transit is completed and operations over open water are resumed.

A small vent opening see can be provided in each second air flow duct to bleed away a small part of each additional portion of pressurized air. When controllable second vanes are open and full amounts of pressurized air portions are being passed to inflate cells vent openings release a small amount of portions of pressurized air but the vented amount is so small that the inflated cells of series remain inflated. But when second control vanes are closed to shut off the flow of pressurized air portions from fan units to cells vent openings allow inflatable cells to deflate to a minimum size so that upper panel section and lower finger section can come together as shown in and .

Referring again to and skirt cell system can have a plurality of interlocking surfaces or latch mechanisms connected to lower finger section and upper panel section to help hold sections and together and series of cells in a collapsed deflated state as hovercraft makes a high speed run across water . When series of cells of skirt cell system is to be inflated the latch mechanisms can be disengaged to free sections and from each other and allow series of cells to raise water jet or water propeller propulsion systems or above the water air interface. When passage overland is completed and hovercraft again is over water parts of latch mechanisms on sections and can be reengaged to secure sections and together and lower propulsion systems or into water for high speed water borne operations.

Optionally a plurality of extensible mechanisms could have one part containing a controllable winch not shown on one of sections or and the anchor part not shown connected on the other of the sections or for example. A cable on each winch and extending to an anchor part could be wound tight to help hold sections and together particularly during high speed operations see . When approaching land additional portions of pressurized air are vented to inflatable cells of series to push upper panel section up and away from lower finger section and lift propulsion systems or out of and above water and hold them there see . Simultaneously cables are unwound in extensible mechanisms to permit full inflation of cells . After land passage is complete and hovercraft returns to waterborne operations controllable second vanes are closed and vented portions of pressurized air in inflatable cells starts to be evacuated from cells . Winches in extensible mechanisms wind cables in and compress inflatable cells to assure their complete evacuation of air. This places and holds sections and adjacent to one another and accordingly places propulsion systems or in water for high speed transit.

During waterborne operations fan units of on board machinery are activated to pass portions of pressurized air past opened first control vanes and through first air flow ducts . This activation creates and maintains a sufficient volume of pressurized air in air cushion to raise and keep the bottom of hull above the top of water . Mounting structure A positions water intake port B of propulsion system at or right below the surface of water as shown in or stanchions B position propeller A of propulsion system to extend through the surface of water as shown in . This positioning of systems or allows hovercraft to be propelled more efficiently than conventional hovercraft using conventional air propeller or jet propulsion systems. In the open water mode of travel series of inflatable cells are deflated between upper panel section and lower finger section . Sections and are held together to place propulsion systems or at the water air interface where they are required to operate.

As land is approached hovercraft slows and skirt cell system of the invention begins to be deployed by opening second controllable vanes between lift fan units and second airflow ducts . Additional portions of pressurized air from fan units are fed past second control vanes . The magnitude of the volumes and hence the pressures of the additional portions may be greater than the pressure of the pressurized air cushion to assure inflation of cells of series . The additional portions are fed through second air flow ducts to interconnected inflatable cells and the series of inflatable cells is inflated to the extent shown in and . Virtually simultaneously propulsion motors in hull of system or system are shut off while the inflated cells of series raise propulsion systems or above the surface as hovercraft makes the water land transition.

As the mounting structures A and intake ports B or stanchions B and propeller A are raised above water and or land to the positions generally as shown in an auxiliary propulsion means such as one or more auxiliary air jet engines air propellers not shown and or motor driven tracked crawlers one tracked crawler being shown in phantom beneath hull can be extended from hull . The jets and or crawlers can be turned on and articulated to propel and maneuver hovercraft across land areas and avoid irregularities or obstacles that might be on land areas .

Having the teachings of this invention in mind other modifications and alternate embodiments of skirt cell system for hovercraft may be adapted without departing from the scope of the invention. Its uncomplicated compact design lends itself to numerous modifications to permit its reliable use in hostile and demanding environments and surfaces including but not limited to open water beaches mud marsh tidal flats etc.

Skirt cell system for hovercraft can be made larger or smaller in different shapes and fabricated from a wide variety of materials to assure resistance to corrosion sufficient strength for heavy loads and long term reliable operation under a multitude of different operational requirements.

Skirt cell system for hovercraft as disclosed herein is not to be construed as limiting but rather is intended to be demonstrative of this inventive concept. It should be readily understood that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible within the purview of the claimed invention. It is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

