---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing directional commands for a mobile computing device
abstract: Various embodiments for providing directional commands for a mobile computing device are described. In one or more embodiments, a mobile computing device may comprise a keypad arranged to operate in multiple modes including a standard mode and a directional mode such as a gaming mode, for example. The standard mode may support all of the preset and programmable commands and functions typically provided for normal operation of the mobile computing device. The directional mode may associate certain directional commands with multiple keys and/or buttons of the keypad so that most keystrokes and keystroke combinations input by a user will be interpreted as a particular directional command. The directional mode may be used when running applications which respond primarily to directional commands such as gaming applications. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07599712&OS=07599712&RS=07599712
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 07599712
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060927
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. In addition a mobile computing device may support various types of applications such as gaming applications which receive directional commands as input. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing directional commands for a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments are directed to providing directional commands for a mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments a mobile computing device may comprise a keypad arranged to operate in multiple modes including a standard mode and a directional mode such as a gaming mode for example. The standard mode may support all of the preset and programmable commands and functions typically provided for normal operation of the mobile computing device. The directional mode may associate certain directional commands e.g. left and right commands with multiple keys and or buttons of the keypad so that most keystrokes and keystroke combinations input by a user will be interpreted as a particular directional command e.g. left command or right command . The directional mode may be used when running applications which respond primarily to directional commands such as gaming applications.

In the directional mode the keypad may comprise or implement multiple keypad regions each associated with a different directional command. Each keypad region may comprise several keys of the keypad and may be associated with a particular directional command. Accordingly a user may press any key within a particular keypad region to generate the identical directional command.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v10 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.1 a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device .

System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise or implement one or more applications arranged to receive directional commands as input. As shown in for example the mobile computing device may comprise a gaming application arranged to receive directional commands as input when a user is playing a game. It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the mobile computing device may include any type of application arranged to receive direction commands as input which is consistent with the described embodiments.

The gaming application may be implemented using any suitable programming language and may allow a user to play a single player game a multi player game an interactive game a two dimensional 2D game a three dimensional 3D game and so forth. The gaming application may be arranged to display a gaming user interface UI on the display when a user is playing a game. The gaming UI may comprise a game object e.g. racing car configured to move in multiple directions in response to directional commands input by the user. For example the game object may be configured to move left relative to the gaming UI in response to receiving a left command as input and to move right relative to the gaming UI in response to receiving a right command as input. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown the mobile computing device also may comprise and or implement one or more other applications in addition to the gaming application . In general the other applications may comprise any type of client application that operates using the standard functions of the keypad . The other applications may comprise for example one or more communications applications e.g. telephone voicemail e mail IM SMS MMS a web browser application personal management applications e.g. PIM contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management location based services LBS applications and so forth.

In general the keypad may be arranged to receive user input for the gaming application and the other applications . In various embodiments the keypad may be arranged to operate in multiple modes including a standard mode and a directional mode such as a gaming mode for example. In some implementations the mobile computing device may provide keypad settings that allow the user to control the functionality of the keypad and change between modes. In some cases the user may be presented with a keypad setting UI supported by the OS of the mobile computing device and or the gaming application for example. The keypad setting UI may be configured to allow the user to change modes and or to program certain keypad functions for each mode.

In some embodiments when the keypad is operating in the standard mode the user may input a preset or programmed keystroke or keystroke combination to switch or override the keypad into the directional mode. Such keystrokes may include for example double pressing a certain key or button and or pressing and holding a certain key or button. Similarly when operating in the directional mode the keypad may be switched to the standard mode in response to the user inputting a keystroke or keystroke combination. In some cases the mobile computing device may comprise a dedicated key button or switch configured to switch the operation of the keypad between the standard mode and the directional mode. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In general the standard mode of the keypad may support all of the preset and programmable commands and functions typically provided by the keypad for normal operation of the mobile computing device . In the standard mode keystrokes and keystroke combinations input to the keypad may be interpreted as whatever preset and or programmable content commands and functions are normally associated with such key strokes and keystroke combinations. Accordingly the keypad may be used in the standard mode to provide input to the gaming application as well as the other applications .

In the standard mode for example pressing a letter key e.g. A key is interpreted as the corresponding lower case letter e.g. a . Pressing a keystroke combination such as the Shift key or Option key followed by a letter key e.g. A key is interpreted as the corresponding capital letter e.g. A if after the Shift key or the corresponding symbol e.g. if after the Option key . Pressing a function button e.g. phone send button will initiate the corresponding function e.g. call dialed number and pressing a navigation button will result in a corresponding directional command being sent to an application for example.

By contrast the directional mode may support limited functionality of the keypad by associating certain directional commands e.g. left and right commands with many of the keys and or buttons of the keypad . Accordingly in the directional mode most keystrokes and keystroke combinations input by the user will be interpreted as a particular directional command e.g. left command or right command . While the functions of the keypad may be substantially limited to generating directional commands using the keypad in the directional mode may be preferable to a user when running applications which respond primarily to directional commands such as gaming application .

In some embodiments the keypad may support a native directional mode at the system level. It can be appreciated however that the embodiments are not limited in the regard and that the directional mode and keystroke interpretation may be supported at the application level. In some embodiments for example the directional mode may be activated programmatically by an application e.g. gaming application and may not require any key activation. In such embodiments the interpretation of keystrokes and keystroke combinations may occur at the application level with any left keystroke or keystroke combination interpreted by the application as a left directional command and any right keystroke or keystroke combination interpreted by the application as a right directional command.

In the directional mode the keypad may comprise or implement multiple keypad regions each associated with a different directional command. In various embodiments each keypad region may comprise several keys of the keypad and may be associated with a particular directional command. Each key within a particular keypad region may be associated with the identical directional command. Accordingly a user may press any key within a particular keypad region to generate the identical directional command.

In various embodiments the keypad regions and associated directional commands may be programmable. For example a keypad setting UI may be presented which allows the user to assign directional commands to certain keys and or buttons for the directional mode. In some cases the keypad setting UI may allow the user to select from among multiple predefined keypad region layouts.

In some implementations keys of the keypad which do not form part of any keypad region may function identically in both the directional mode and in the standard mode. For example the navigation button may retain standard functionality in the directional mode and can be used to generate directional commands in addition to keys of the keypad regions. In some cases keys of the keypad which do not form part of any keypad region may be assigned or associated with functions consistent with the application employing the directional mode. For example when running the gaming application in the directional mode certain keys which do not form part of any keypad region e.g. space bar may be assigned or associated with certain game actions e.g. fire jump etc. .

In some embodiments multiple alphanumeric numeric keys which are located on the left half of the keypad may comprise a left keypad region and each of the alphanumeric keys within the left keypad region may be associated with a left command. In addition multiple alphanumeric numeric keys which are located on the right half of the keypad may comprise a right keypad region and each of the alphanumeric keys within the right keypad region may be associated with a right command. In such embodiments pressing any alphanumeric key in the left keypad region of the keypad will be interpreted as a left command when in the directional mode. Likewise pressing any alphanumeric key in the right keypad region of the keypad will be interpreted as a right command when in the directional mode.

In one embodiment for example the keypad may comprise or implement a left keypad region comprising most of the keys located on the left half of the keypad and a right keypad region comprising most of the keys located in the right half of the keypad . In such embodiment the left keypad region may comprise the W key E key R key S key D key F key Z key X key and C key. Pressing any key in the left keypad region of the keypad will be interpreted as a left command when in the directional mode. The right keypad region may comprise the U key I key O key J key K key L key N key M key and . key. Pressing any key in the right keypad region of the keypad will be interpreted as a right command when in the directional mode. It can be appreciate that in some embodiments the keys of the left keypad region are capable of being pressed by the left thumb of a user and the keys of the right keypad region are capable of being pressed by the right thumb of the user.

It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited to comprising only a left keypad region and a right keypad region. For example in some embodiments additional directional commands and keypad regions may be implemented and or each keypad region may comprise a greater or lesser number of keys depending on the particular implementation.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement a standard character map . The standard character map may comprise a lookup table stored in memory for example that defines the content commands and functions which correspond to each keystroke or combination of keystrokes when the keypad is operating in the standard mode. The mobile computing device also may comprise or implement a directional character map e.g. gaming character map . The directional character map may comprise a lookup table stored in memory for example that defines the content commands and functions which correspond to each keystroke or combination of keystrokes when the keypad is operating in the directional mode. In various implementations the directional character map may be used instead of the standard character map when a user is playing a game.

The mobile computing device may comprise a keypad controller . The keypad controller may comprise for example hardware and or software such as keypad control logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host processor . The keypad control logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

In various implementations the keypad controller may be arranged to reference either the standard character map and or the directional character map in order to translate each keystroke or combination of keystrokes input by the user into the corresponding content command or function. For example the keypad controller may reference the standard character map when the keypad is operating in the standard mode and may reference the directional character map when the keypad is operating in the directional mode.

In the standard mode for example the keypad controller may be arranged to compare a keystroke or keystroke combination to the standard character map and to generate keypad data representing the corresponding content command or function. The keypad controller may forward the keypad data to the appropriate application. It can be appreciated that in the standard mode appropriate applications include the gaming application as well as the other applications . In some cases the keypad data may be passed through the OS of the mobile computing device to check whether the keyboard data represents a system level command. Upon receiving the keypad data from the keypad controller the application may determine whether the keypad data represents content a command or a function and then may act accordingly to display content execute a command or perform a function. The application may be arranged to ignore keypad data representing content commands or functions which are inconsistent with the application.

In the directional mode for example the keypad controller may be arranged to compare a keystroke or keystroke combination to the directional character map and to generate keypad data representing the corresponding content command or function. In most cases the keypad data generated by the keypad controller may represent a directional command e.g. left command or right command . In general by referencing the directional character map the keypad controller may interpret most keystrokes or keystroke combinations as a particular directional command.

The keypad controller may forward the keypad data representing the directional command to an application e.g. gaming application arranged to receive directional commands as input. For example upon receiving the keypad data from the keypad controller the gaming application may determine that the keypad data represents a directional command such as a left command and then may act accordingly such as by executing a left command to move the game object to the left relative to the gaming UI . While not always the case it can be appreciated that in some implementations the other applications may be prevented from using directional mode.

As shown the mobile computing device may comprise a matrix key . In various embodiments the key pad controller may be arranged to receive keystrokes and keystroke combinations from the matrix key . The matrix key may comprise for example hardware and or software such as keystroke determination logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host processor . The keystroke determination logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

The matrix key may be arranged to determine keystrokes and keystroke combinations based on electrical signals received from the keypad . In various embodiments the matrix key may interpret a flow of electrical current and or a change in the flow of electrical current as a keystroke or keystroke combination. For example the matrix key may be arranged to detect a change in current flow and interpret such change as a particular keystroke.

The keypad may comprise a grid or matrix of circuits and switches responsive to user input keystrokes. The keypad may employ a variety of switch technologies including mechanical e.g. metal contact carbon contact membrane etc. and non mechanical e.g. capacitive switches. When a key is pressed on the keypad for example the pressure may close a switch to complete a circuit and allow the flow of current and or cause a change in current flow. The matrix key may be arranged to interpret such current flow or change in current flow as one or more keystrokes which may be provided to the keypad controller .

In various embodiments when the keypad is operating in the directional mode the matrix key may be arranged to recognize the pressing and holding of a particular key as a repeated keystroke and to recognize the double pressing of a particular key as two separate keystrokes. The matrix key also may be arranged to recognize the simultaneous pressing or substantially simultaneous e.g. within a certain delay parameter pressing of multiple keys within a particular keypad region as a single keystroke so that a single press to a keypad region results in the generation of a single directional command.

In this embodiment the keypad comprises various buttons such as a navigation button a left action button e.g. Home button a right action button e.g. Menu button a phone send button a power end button a calendar button and a messaging button . As shown the keypad also comprises various alphanumeric and control keys including an A key and Option key and a Shift key .

In various embodiments the keypad may be arranged to operate in multiple modes including a standard mode and a directional mode such as a gaming mode for example. The standard mode of the keypad may support all of the preset and programmable commands and functions typically provided for normal operation. In the standard mode keystrokes and keystroke combinations input to the keypad are interpreted as whatever preset and or programmable content commands and functions are normally associated with such key strokes and keystroke combinations. In the standard mode for example pressing the A key is interpreted as a pressing the Shift key then the A key is interpreted as A pressing the Option key then the A key is interpreted as .

The directional mode may support limited functionality of the keypad by associating certain directional commands e.g. left and right commands with many of the keys and or buttons of the keypad . Accordingly in the directional mode most keystrokes and keystroke combinations input by the user will be interpreted as a particular directional command e.g. left command or right command . While the functions of the keypad may be substantially limited to generating directional commands using the keypad in the directional mode may be preferable to a user when running applications which respond primarily to directional commands.

In the directional mode the keypad may comprise or implement multiple keypad regions each associated with a different directional command. As shown the keypad may comprise or implement a left keypad region comprising multiple keys located on the left half of the keypad and a right keypad region comprising multiple keys located in the right half of the keypad . Each of the keys within the left keypad region may be associated with a left command. Each of the keys within the right keypad region may be associated with a right command. In such embodiments pressing any key in the left keypad region of the keypad will be interpreted as a left command when in the directional mode. Likewise pressing any key in the right keypad region of the keypad will be interpreted as a right command when in the directional mode. It can be appreciate that in some embodiments the keys of the left keypad region are capable of being pressed by the left thumb of a user and the keys of the right keypad region are capable of being pressed by the right thumb of the user.

It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited to comprising only the left keypad region and the right keypad . For example in some embodiments additional directional commands and keypad regions may be implemented and or each keypad region may comprise a greater or lesser number of keys depending on the particular implementation.

In some embodiments a joystick mode of mapping the keypad may be supported in which keypad regions closer to the periphery of the keypad exhibit more functionality and keypad regions closer to the center of the keypad exhibit less or neutral functionality. In one embodiment for example when running a driving game the keys of the far left two columns e.g. Q key A key Option key W key S key and Z key may be interpreted as a hard left directional command. The keys of the inner left two columns e.g. E key D key X key R key F key and C key may be interpreted as a mild left directional command. The keys of the two central columns e.g. T key G key V key Y key H key and B key all may return steering to a center or straight position. The keys of the inner right two columns e.g. U key J key N key I key K key and M key may be interpreted as a mild right directional command. The keys of the far right two columns e.g. O key L key . key P key Backspace key and Enter key may be interpreted as a hard right directional command.

In an embodiment for a flying game for example the keys of the top row may be interpreted as a down directional command and the keys of the bottom row may be interpreted as an up directional command. In such an embodiment the Q key and W keys may be interpreted as a hard left and down directional command while the N key and M key may be interpreted as a mild right and up directional command.

In some implementations keys of the keypad which do not form part of either the left keypad region or the right keypad region may function identically in both the directional mode and in the standard mode. For example the navigation button may retain standard functionality in the directional mode and can be used to generate directional commands in addition to keys of the left keypad region and the right keypad region . In some embodiments the left action button right action button phone send button power end button calendar button and messaging button may retain standard functionality.

In some cases keys of the keypad which do not form part of either the left keypad region or the right keypad region may be assigned or associated with functions consistent with the application employing the directional mode. For example one or more of the left action button right action button phone send button power end button calendar button messaging button and space bar may be assigned or associated with certain actions performed by the application employing the directional mode.

The logic flow may comprise determining user input keystrokes and keystroke combinations to a keypad region of a keypad block . In various embodiments the keypad e.g. keypad may be arranged to operate in multiple modes including a standard mode and a directional mode such as a gaming mode for example. The standard mode may support all of the preset and programmable commands and functions typically provided for normal operation. In the standard mode input keystrokes and keystroke combinations are interpreted as whatever preset and or programmable content commands and functions are normally associated with such key strokes and keystroke combinations.

The directional mode may associate certain directional commands e.g. left and right commands with many of the keys and or buttons of the keypad so that most keystrokes and keystroke combinations input by the user will be interpreted as a particular directional command e.g. left command or right command . The directional mode may be used when running applications which respond primarily to directional commands e.g. gaming application .

For example in the directional mode the keypad may comprise or implement multiple keypad regions each associated with a different directional command. Each keypad region may comprise several keys of the keypad and may be associated with a particular directional command. Each key within a particular keypad region may be associated with the identical directional command. Accordingly a user may press any key within a particular keypad region to generate the identical directional command. In various embodiments the keypad regions and associated directional commands may be programmable. In some implementations keys of the keypad which do not form part of any keypad region may function identically in both the directional mode and in the standard mode. In some cases keys of the keypad which do not form part of any keypad region may be assigned or associated with functions consistent with the application employing the directional mode.

In one embodiment for example the keypad may comprise or implement a left keypad region comprising most of the keys located on the left half of the keypad and a right keypad region comprising most of the keys located in the right half of the keypad . Pressing any key in the left keypad region of the keypad will be interpreted as a left command when in the directional mode. Pressing any key in the right keypad region of the keypad will be interpreted as a right command when in the directional mode. The keys of the left keypad region may be arranged to be pressed by the left thumb of a user and the keys of the right keypad region may be arranged to be pressed by the right thumb of the user.

It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited to comprising only a left keypad region and a right keypad region. In some embodiments for example a joystick mode of mapping the keypad may be supported in which keypad regions closer to the periphery of the keypad exhibit more functionality and keypad regions closer to the center of the keypad exhibit less or neutral functionality.

The logic flow may comprise interpreting the keystrokes and keystroke combinations to the keypad region as a directional command block . In the directional mode for example the keypad controller may be arranged to compare a keystroke or keystroke combination to the directional character map . The directional character map may comprise a lookup table that defines the content commands and functions which correspond to each keystroke or combination of keystrokes when the keypad is operating in the directional mode. In various implementations the directional character map may be used instead of the standard character map when a user is playing a game. In general by referencing the directional character map the keypad controller may interpret most keystrokes or keystroke combinations as a particular directional command.

The logic flow may comprise generating keypad data representing the directional command block . In the directional mode for example the keypad controller may be arranged to generate keypad data representing a directional command e.g. left command or right command .

The logic flow may comprise forwarding the keypad data to an application arranged to receive directional commands as input block . In various embodiments the keypad controller may forward the keypad data representing the directional command to an application e.g. gaming application arranged to receive directional commands as input. Upon receiving the keypad data from the keypad controller the gaming application may determine that the keypad data represents a directional command such as a left command and then may act accordingly such as by executing a left command to move the game object to the left relative to the gaming UI . While not always the case it can be appreciated that in some implementations the other applications may be prevented from using directional mode.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

