---

title: 7-quinolyl ketolide antibacterial agents
abstract: 

having improved activity and safety, compositions comprising them, and methods for their preparation and use in the treatment of bacterial infections.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07595300&OS=07595300&RS=07595300
owner: Kosan Biosciences Incorporated
number: 07595300
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061207
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 750 489 filed Dec. 13 2005 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

This invention was made in whole or in part with governmental support from National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease under SBIR grant No. 5R44 AI051106. Accordingly the government may have certain rights in the invention.

The invention is directed to antibacterial compounds that expand the repertoire of erythromycin like antibiotics. More particularly the invention concerns ketolide antibiotics containing a modified erythronolide nucleus.

An increasing number of microbial strains have acquired resistance to the currently available antibiotic compounds resulting in a potentially dangerous threat to public health. Thus the need for expanding the options available to treat microbial based conditions has grown with the increasing use of antibiotics. The need for new antimicrobial compounds extends beyond treatment of human and animal infections to a need to preserve food and other perishable commodities. New antibiotics can also be essential for treatment of plants having microbial infections and to the preservation of materials that otherwise are subject to microbially caused corrosion. Thus there is a clear need for an expanded armament of compounds which can provide a multifaceted defense against unwanted microbial activity.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 866 549 which is incorporated herein by reference and U.S. Pat. No. 5 635 485 disclose modified forms of erythromycin which lack a cladinose residue at the 3 position and which are derivatized in various ways in positions 9 12 of the macrolide ring. Such erythromycin derivatives lacking the cladinose and having a 3 keto group are termed ketolides. U.S. Pat. No. 5 750 510 incorporated herein by reference also discloses modified erythromycin derivatives. All of the compounds disclosed in the above referenced patent documents are derived from erythromycin A and thus contain an ethyl group at position 13 of the macrolide ring.

While erythromycin A and its chemical derivatives have found long standing use in the treatment of microbial diseases it has recently been discovered that these antibacterials have significant safety risks associated with their use. In particular these antibacterials have been shown to inhibit certain ion channels in cardiac tissues resulting in lengthening of the QT interval in the electrocardiogram. Such lengthening of the QT interval is associated with induction of torsades de pointes in susceptible individuals occasionally leading to cardiac arrest. See for example H. Ohtani et al. Comparative pharmacodynamic analysis of Q T interval prolongation induced by the macrolides clarithromycin roxithromycin and azithromycin in rats 2000 44 2630 2637. The principal cardiac ion channel thought to be involved in this the hERG or Ichannel is inhibited by a wide range of drugs with no clear structure activity relationship precluding prediction of intrinsic binding affinities of drugs to the channel. Further hERG is a membrane spanning ion channel with extracellular and cytosolic faces and inhibition of hERG by erythromycin like antibacterials is believed to occur by binding of the drug to the cytosolic face of the channel. As erythromycin like antibiotics are often actively accumulated into cells at unpredictable levels the effects of particular macrolide antibacterials on the QT interval are extremely complex and impossible to predict based on their structure.

There thus exists a need for new antibacterial agents having improved efficacy and cardiac safety. U.S. Pat. No. 6 395 710 incorporated herein by reference discloses ketolide antiinfective agents prepared from analogs of erythromycin A which are in turn prepared by genetic engineering. These ketolides show improved activity against a range of erythromycin sensitive and resistant microorganisms. After extensive testing we have unexpectedly discovered particular combinations of substituents on these compounds that provide not only improved antibacterial activity but also improved pharmacokinetic behavior and cardiac safety. Such compounds are of particular importance for the safe effective treatment of bacterial infections.

In one aspect the invention relates to particular macrolide antiinfective agents having improved safety and efficacy.

In one embodiment of the invention 7 quinolyl ketolide compounds having the general structure I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided

In one embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I are provided wherein Ris H. In one particular embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris H and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl or substituted or unsubstituted aryl are provided. In a more particular embodiment compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris H and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris CH CHCH CHCHO C O CHCH or phenyl are provided.

In one embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I are provided wherein Ris F. In one particular embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris F and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl or substituted or unsubstituted aryl are provided. In a more particular embodiment compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris F and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris CH CHCH CHCHO C O CHCH or phenyl are provided.

In more particular embodiments of the invention compounds of formula II and III and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided.

In another aspect of the invention methods for the preparation of the compounds of formula I and intermediates thereto are provided. In one embodiment of the invention a method is provided for preparing a compound of formula IV an intermediate for the preparation of compounds of formula I 

In a particular embodiment of the invention a method of preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris unsubstituted or substituted C Calkyl unsubstituted or substituted C Calkenyl C Calkynyl unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Ris H unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Pand Pare each independently hydroxyl protecting groups and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group is provided wherein the metal catalyst comprises palladium in the presence of an isocyanide ligand.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention a method of preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris unsubstituted or substituted C Calkyl unsubstituted or substituted C Calkenyl C Calkynyl unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Ris H unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Pand Pare each independently hydroxyl protecting groups and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group is provided wherein the metal catalyst comprises palladium in the presence of tert butylisocyanide.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention a method is provided for preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris unsubstituted or substituted C Calkyl Ris H unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Pand Pare each independently hydroxyl protecting groups and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group wherein the metal catalyst comprises palladium having tert butylisocyanide as a ligand.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention a method is provided for preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris unsubstituted or substituted C Calkyl Ris H Pand Pare each independently hydroxyl protecting groups and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group is provided wherein the metal catalyst comprises palladium having tert butylisocyanide as a ligand.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention a method of preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris CHCHF Ris H and P P and Rare each benzoyl and the metal catalyst comprises palladium and tert butylisocyanide is provided.

In another aspect of the invention pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more of the compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided. Such pharmaceutical compositions include solid liquid lotion gel cr me foam suspension ointment and other compositions suitable for parenteral oral inhalation or topical administration.

In one embodiment of the invention a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula II or formula III or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is provided. Such pharmaceutical compositions include solid liquid lotion gel cr me foam suspension ointment and other compositions suitable for parenteral oral inhalation or topical administration.

In another embodiment of the invention pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more of the compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided wherein the pharmaceutical composition is a solution gel cr me suspension lotion foam or ointment suitable for topical application. In a more particular embodiment of the invention such topical compositions comprise compound II or compound III or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. In a more particular embodiment of the invention such topical compositions comprise one or more of the compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof at a concentration of 0.05 to 5 w w. In a more particular embodiment of the invention such topical compositions comprise compound II or compound III or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof at a concentration of 0.05 to 5 w w.

In another embodiment of the invention pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more of the compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided wherein the pharmaceutical composition is a liquid or solid form suitable for oral or parenteral administration.

In another aspect of the invention methods for the use of compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof in the treatment of infectious diseases are provided. In one embodiment of the invention methods to treat pulmonary bacterial infections are provided. In more particular embodiments the pulmonary infection is selected from a group consisting of pneumonia bronchitis tonsillitis and pharyngitis. In another embodiment of the invention methods to treat skin infections are provided. In more particular embodiments the skin infection is acne.

In another aspect of the invention compounds of formula I or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided for the preparation of medicaments for the treatment of bacterial infections. In particular embodiments of the invention compounds of formula II and formula III or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided for the preparation of medicaments for the treatment of bacterial infections.

The present invention relates to antiinfective agents having improved safety and efficacy. These compounds are 7 quinolyl ketolide derivatives of 15 fluoroerythromycin. In one embodiment of the invention compounds having the general structure I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided

In one particular embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris H or F and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl or substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl are provided.

In one embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I are provided wherein Ris H. In one particular embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris H and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl or substituted or unsubstituted aryl are provided. In a more particular embodiment compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris H and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris CH CHCH CHCHO C O CHCH or phenyl are provided.

In one embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I are provided wherein Ris F. In one particular embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris F and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl or substituted or unsubstituted aryl are provided. In a more particular embodiment compounds of formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein Ris F and Ris H or RCO wherein Ris CH CHCH CHCHO C O CHCH or phenyl are provided.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention compounds of formula II and III and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are provided.

In another aspect of the invention methods for the preparation of the compounds of formulae I II and III are provided. The compounds of formulae I II and III may be prepared starting from 15 fluoroerythromycin A an analog of erythromycin A prepared using genetic engineering as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 492 562 which is incorporated herein by reference and as detailed below in Examples 1 through 5.

In one embodiment of the invention 15 fluoroerythromycin A is converted into compounds of formulae I II and III as illustrated in and particular illustrations of this embodiment are detailed below in Examples 6 through 20.

In one embodiment illustrated in 15 fluoroerythromycin A 1 is first converted into the 9 oxime 2 by reaction with hydroxylamine in the presence of an acid catalyst for example as described for erythromycin A in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 274 085 and 5 808 017 each of which is incorporated herein by reference . Suitable solvents include alcohols such as methanol ethanol and isopropanol or other water miscible solvents. One illustration is detailed in Example 6 below.

Referring to the three most reactive hydroxyl groups in 2 are blocked for example by acylation with an acid anhydride. Typical examples of acid anhydrides suitable include but are not limited to the anhydrides of substituted or unsubstituted C Ccarboxylic acids for example acetic anhydride propionic anhydride formic acetic anhydride and similar and anhydrides of aromatic carboxylic acids for example benzoic anhydride and various substituted benzoic anhydrides. The anhydrides may be used directly or prepared in situ by reaction of a carboxylic acid with an activating agent such as a carboxylic acid halide. The acylation reaction with 2 is conducted in an inert solvent for example ethyl acetate tetrahydrofuran dichloromethane or similar solvents in the presence of a base and an acylation catalyst. Suitable bases include amine bases such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine and similar and suitable acylation catalysts include agents like 4 dimethylamino pyridine. Reaction temperatures may be from about 0 C. to about 50 C. preferably about 20 C. to about 30 C. and most preferably about 25 C. By about is meant within 5 C. of the indicated temperature ranges. One illustration using benzoic anhydride is detailed below in Example 7. Other protecting groups for the reactive hydroxyls may be used for example silyl protecting groups such as trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl tert butyl dimethylsilyl dimethylthexylsilyl and the like as described for erythromycin A oxime in U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 829 incorporated herein by reference . In other embodiments different protecting groups can be used for the oxime and the sugar hydroxyls for example as described for the preparation of 6 O methylerythromycin A in U.S. Pat. No. 5 852 180 incorporated herein by reference . For example the oxime hydroxyl may be protected as an ether while the sugar hydroxyl groups can be protected by acylation or silylation as described above. Examples of suitable ether protecting groups for the oxime include but are not limited to benzyl ether and substituted benzyl ethers and acetals such as 1 alkoxy 1 methylethyl ethers or 1 alkoxy 1 cyclohexyl ethers as described for erythromycin A oxime in U.S. Pat. No. 5 719 272 incorporated herein by reference .

Referring to in one embodiment of the invention the resulting tribenzoate 3 is treated with an allylating reagent to produce the 6 O allyl intermediate 4 . Suitable allylating agents include allyl halides such as allyl bromide allyl chloride and allyl iodide together with a strong base such as potassium tert butoxide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide NaHMDS or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide KHMDS as described for erythromycin A derivatives in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 866 549 and 6 395 710 each of which is incorporated herein by reference or an allyl carbonate or carbamate such as allyl tert butyl carbonate in the presence of a metal catalyst such as a palladium phosphine catalyst as described for erythromycin A in U.S. Pat. No. 6 437 106 incorporated herein by reference or a molybdenum or tungsten catalyst together with a suitable ligand. In certain embodiments the allylating reagent is allyl tert butyl carbonate in the presence of a metal catalyst formed from a palladium species including but not limited to palladium acetate palladium bromide allylpalladium chloride and dipalladium tris benzylidenacetone Pd dba or its chloroform adduct together with a phosphine arsine or isocyanide ligand. In one particular illustration shown in and detailed in Example 8 below the allylating reagent is allyl tert butyl carbonate in the presence of a metal catalyst formed from dipalladium tris benzylidenacetone Pd dba or its chloroform adduct and an isocyanide ligand for example tert butyl isocyanide.

Thus in one aspect of the invention a method for preparing a compound of formula IV an intermediate for the preparation of compounds of formula I is provided

The preparation of compounds of formula V is known in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 395 710 6 451 768 6 794 366 6 399 582 6 458 771 6 590 083 6 395 710 6 593 302 6 514 944 and 6 762 168 each of which is incorporated herein by reference or as described in the working examples below. The preparation of compounds of formula VIa VIb and VIc is also known in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 417 366 and 6 579 986 each of which is incorporated herein by reference . Suitable metal catalysts include but are not limited to palladium acetate palladium bromide allylpalladium chloride and dipalladium tris benzyliden acetone Pd dba or its chloroform adduct.

In a particular embodiment of the invention a method of preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris unsubstituted or substituted C Calkyl unsubstituted or substituted C Calkenyl C Calkynyl unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Ris H unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Pand Pare each independently hydroxyl protecting groups and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group is provided wherein the metal catalyst comprises palladium having an isocyanide ligand.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention a method of preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris unsubstituted or substituted C Calkyl unsubstituted or substituted C Calkenyl C Calkynyl unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Ris H unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Pand Pare each independently hydroxyl protecting groups and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group is provided wherein the metal catalyst comprises palladium having a tert butylisocyanide ligand.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention a method of preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris unsubstituted or substituted C Calkyl Ris H unsubstituted or substituted heteroaryl or unsubstituted or substituted aryl Pand Pare each independently hydroxyl protecting groups and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group is provided wherein the metal catalyst comprises palladium having a tert butylisocyanide ligand.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention a method of preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris unsubstituted or substituted C Calkyl Ris H Pand Pare each independently hydroxyl protecting groups Ris a hydroxyl protecting group is provided wherein the metal catalyst comprises palladium in the presence of tert butylisocyanide.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention a method of preparing compounds of formula IV wherein Ris CHCHF Ris H and P P and Rare each benzoyl and the metal catalyst comprises palladium having a tert butylisocyanide ligand is provided.

Referring to in other embodiments of the invention the protected oxime in 6 O allyl intermediate 4 is deprotected for example by treatment with alkali in an alcoholic solvent as detailed below in Example 9 to produce oxime 5 . Removal of the oxime to produce ketone 6 may be accomplished by any number of means known in the art for example by i reductive hydrolysis using NaSOand HCOH in a mixture of an alcohol or tetrahydrofuran and water as illustrated below in Example 10 and in U.S. Pat. No. 6 395 710 incorporated herein by reference ii by hydrolysis using NaHSOand an acid for example a carboxylic acid such as acetic acid or levulinic acid in a mixture of an alcohol or tetrahydrofuran and water iii by reduction of the oxime to an imine for example using TiClbuffered by addition of ammonium acetate followed by hydrolysis of the imine by treatment with aqueous acid iv oxidative hydrolysis for example by treatment with NaNOin aqueous acid or v by treatment with a disulfide such as phenyldisulfide and a phosphine such as tributylphosphine to produce the thioimine which is subsequently hydrolyzed to the imine and then the ketone by treatment with aqueous acid as described for erythromycin A oximes in U.S. Pat. No. 6 455 608 incorporated herein by reference .

Again referring to the ketone 6 is converted into the 11 12 cyclic carbamate 7 . In one particular embodiment of the invention ketone 6 is treated with a molar excess of a carbonylating reagent for example 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole in the presence of a strong base such as sodium hydride or NaHMDS as described for erythromycin A derivatives in U.S. Pat. No. 6 437 106 incorporated herein by reference . In a preferred embodiment the base is sodium hydride as illustrated in Example 11 below. Use of sodium hydride rather than NaHMDS avoids formation of a 10 11 anhydro 12 O trimethylsilyl side product. The resulting intermediate is treated with ammonia followed by potassium tert butoxide to provide cyclic carbamate 7 .

Referring to in one embodiment of the invention cyclic carbamate 7 is treated with an arylating reagent under Heck coupling conditions to produce the 7 quinolyl intermediate 8 . Suitable arylating reagents include compounds of formula VII 

Compounds of formula IV may be prepared according to procedures known in the art. In one embodiment of the invention the compound of formula IV wherein Z is OSOCFis prepared as illustrated in Example 18 below by reaction of commercially available 7 hydroxyquinoline with triflic anhydride in pyridine.

Again referring to the quinolyl intermediate 8 is converted into descladinosyl intermediate 9 . In one embodiment of the invention descladinosyl intermediate 9 is formed under non aqueous conditions by reaction of intermediate 8 with an acid in the presence of a hydride source. In a particular embodiment the acid is trifluoroacetic acid and the hydride source is a silane such as triethylsilane or tert butyldimethylsilane as illustrated in Example 13 below. The solvent may be any compatible anhydrous solvent such as dichloromethane chloroform dichloroethane toluene benzene and similar. In other embodiments of the invention the cladinosyl group is removed using aqueous acid for example as described for erythromycin A derivatives in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 395 710 and 6 437 106 each of which is incorporated herein by reference .

Again referring to descladinosyl intermediate 9 is converted into ketone 10 a compound of formula I wherein Ris H and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group by oxidation of the 3 hydroxyl group. In one embodiment illustrated in Example 14 below the oxidation uses the Corey Kim reagent N chlorosuccinimide and methylsulfide in an inert solvent such as dichloromethane. In other embodiments the oxidation uses Pfizer Moffat conditions a carbodiimide and methylsulfoxide with a mild acid catalyst Swern conditions oxalyl chloride methylsulfoxide and triethylamine or similar methods known in the art for erythromycin A derivatives.

Referring to ketone 10 can optionally be converted into the 2 fluoro derivative 11 by treatment with a strong base and a fluorinating agent using methods similar to those described for erythromycin A derivatives in U.S. Pat. No. 6 124 269 incorporated herein by reference . In one embodiment the base is NaHMDS and the fluorinating agent is N fluorobenzenesulfonimide as illustrated in Example 16 below.

Compounds of formula I wherein Ris H or F and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group typically do not have potent antibacterial activity yet may be useful as prodrug forms of the compounds of formula I wherein Ris H or F and Ris H. In one embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I wherein Ris H or F and Ris RCO wherein Ris substituted or unsubstituted C Calkyl or substituted or unsubstituted aryl are provided as prodrug forms. Upon administration to a patient chemical or enzymatic deprotection occurs in vivo so as to form compounds of formula I wherein Ris H or F and Ris H. Such prodrugs often show improved absorption stability and or pharmacokinetic behavior. In a particular embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I wherein Ris H or F and Ris CHCO CHCHCO and CHCHO C O CHCHCO are provided.

Compounds of formula I wherein Ris H or F and Ris a hydroxyl protecting group may optionally be converted into compound of formula I wherein Ris H or F and Ris H by deprotection using methods known in the art. In one embodiment illustrated in Ris RCO and the deprotection is conveniently performed by treatment of the protected form with methanol at temperatures between 20 C. and 65 C. as described for related compounds in U.S. Pat. No. 6 395 710 incorporated herein by reference and illustrated below in Examples 15 and 17.

In another embodiment of the invention compounds of formula I wherein Ris H are converted into compounds of formula I wherein Ris a hydroxyl protecting group by methods known in the art. For example compounds of formula I wherein Ris H are treated with acid anhydrides RCO O to form compounds of formula I wherein Ris RCO illustrated in Examples 19 and 20 below. Such compounds may be useful as prodrug forms of the antibacterial compounds.

In another embodiment of the invention pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of formula I are provided. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of these compounds include but are not limited to halide salts such as hydrochlorides hydrobromides and hydroiodides sulfate and sulfonate salts such as bisulfates sulfates mesylates tosylates taurates and lauryl sulfates carboxylates such as maleates fumarates acetates propionates stearates and lactobionates nitrates phosphates and similar.

As shown below in Examples 21 and 23 and in Tables 11 and 13 compounds II and III have excellent in vitro activity against a range of bacteria. In particular these compounds show potent antibacterial activity against bacteria involved in both pulmonary disease such as pneumonia such as and and skin infections such as acne such as and including organisms that are highly resistant to traditional macrolides such as erythromycin A and agents such as clindamycin. As demonstrated in Example 22 and Table 12 compounds II and III show excellent in vivo activity inhibiting the growth of in infected rat lungs after oral dosing and increasing survival.

Examples 24 27 demonstrate the unexpected superiority of compounds II and III in comparison with comparator compounds of formula VIII 

Example 27 details the pharmacokinetic profiles of compounds of formula VIII wherein Ris H or F and Z is 3 quinolyl 6 quinoxalyl and compounds of the invention having formulas II and III in the mouse model. As shown in Table 18 compound III shows unexpectedly high maximal plasma concentrations C and total exposures determined by the area under the curve AUC compared with comparator compounds in both mouse plasma and mouse lung tissue.

Attainment of high plasma and lung tissue levels and total exposures of drug are particularly important for the treatment of pulmonary infections such as pneumonia where pathogens infect not only the epithelial lining fluid but also the tissues. For macrolide therapy the efficacy of treatment is related to the C MIC and AUC MIC ratios such that increases in these ratios in both the plasma and tissues correlates with therapeutic success.

As noted above one characteristic of macrolides is their ability to prolong the QT interval in the electrocardiogram ECG . QT prolongation is associated with induction of torsade de pointes and cardiac arrest in a susceptible segment of the population. Typically such effects are determined by dosing of appropriate test animals with increasing levels of drug and monitoring the EKG and related parameters such as heart rate and arterial pressure. As detailed in Examples 24 and 25 below 15 fluoroketolides having a variety of heterocyclic groups were studied in several animal models. In the rat the compound of the invention having formula II and III did not prolong the QT interval whereas the comparator ketolides showed increases in the QT interval Table 14 . In the anesthetized guinea pig Table 15 comparator compounds of formula VIII wherein Z is 3 quinolyl 6 quinolyl or 1 5 naphthyrid 3 yl and R H showed pronounced dose dependent prolongation of the QT interval measured as the QT interval corrected for changes in heart rate QTc that persisted post injection as shown in . The compound wherein Z is 3 quinolyl and Ris F showed a smaller yet persistent increase in QTc at the highest dose . The compound wherein Z is 6 quinoxalyl showed a moderate dose dependent increase in the QTc interval that slowly returned to baseline . In contrast the compound of the invention having formula II showed no statistically significant effects on the QTc interval or related parameters at cumulative doses up to 30 mg kg in the guinea pig relative to vehicle controls.

Comparator compounds of formula VIII wherein Z is 3 quinolyl or 6 quinoxalyl together with compounds of the invention having formulas II and III were further investigated in models of hepatotoxicity. In these assays compounds were applied to hepatocytes in cell culture and the minimum concentration needed to induce effects on metabolic stability and steatosis lipid accumulation was determined. As detailed in Example 26 below the compound of formula VIII wherein Z is 3 quinolyl affected metabolic stability and steatosis in human HepG2 hepatocytes at 30 M. No effects were observed with the compounds wherein Z is 6 quinoxalyl or with compounds of the invention having formulas II and III at 100 M. Further testing of compound III against primary human hepatocytes revealed no cytotoxicity at concentrations up to 200 M.

Based on the above results compounds of formula VIII wherein Z is 6 quinoxalyl were further compared to compounds of the invention in dog models to evaluate safety. Surprisingly the compound wherein Z is 6 quinoxalyl and Ris F proved extremely toxic with severe clinical effects being observable upon intravenous dosing at only 9 mg kg. In contrast both compounds II and III could be dosed intravenously up to at least 30 mg kg. Further study of compounds II and III using telemetered dogs Example 25 revealed no effects on cardiac parameters including QT interval upon intravenous infusion up to 15 mg kg at which point the measured plasma concentrations of drug exceeded the anticipated therapeutic level by approximately 5 fold. Further study with compound III showed no significant effect relative to vehicle at 30 mg kg.

Thus we have unexpectedly found that 15 fluoroketolides having a 7 quinolyl heterocyclic group have beneficial properties making them useful in the treatment of bacterial infections. In particular compounds of the invention having formulas II and III show an unanticipated combination of activity and safety relative to related compounds. In particular compound III shows unexpectedly good pharmacokinetics combined with high activity and a good cardiac and hepatic safety profile.

This invention further provides methods of treating bacterial infections or enhancing the activity of other anti bacterial agents in warm blooded animals in particular in mammals and especially in humans which comprise administering to the animals or humans one or more compounds of formula I alone or in admixture with a diluent or in the form of a medicament according to the invention. For use in treating infectious disease the compounds of the invention are formulated into suitable compositions which will include typical excipients pharmaceutically acceptable counterions if the compound is a salt further additives as desired such as antioxidants buffers and the like and administered to animals or humans. The compounds can be administered by any desired route including injection oral administration transdermal administration transmucosal administration or any combination. The compounds of the invention can also be administered with additional active ingredients if desired.

Compounds of this invention are suitable for the treatment of bacterial infections of the skin and respiratory tract. Compounds of this invention are especially suitable for treatment of infections caused by and . As demonstrated in Examples 21 and 23 below compounds II and III retain potent activity against pathogens that are resistant to either erythromycin clarithromycin or clindamycin.

When the compounds are employed for the above utility they may be combined with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers e.g. solvents diluents and the like and may be administered orally in such forms as tablets capsules dispersible powders granules or suspensions containing for example from about 0.5 to 5 of suspending agent syrups containing for example from about 10 to 50 of sugar and elixirs containing for example from about 20 to 50 ethanol and the like or parenterally in the form of sterile injectable solutions or suspensions containing from about 0.5 to 5 suspending agent in an isotonic medium. These pharmaceutical compositions may contain for example from about 0.5 up to about 90 of the active ingredient in combination with the carrier more usually between 0.5 and 60 by weight.

Compositions for topical application may take the form of liquids creams foams ointments or gels comprising a therapeutically effective concentration of a compound of the invention admixed with a dermatologically acceptable carrier. In one embodiment of the invention the therapeutically effective concentration ranges from about 0.05 to about 5 w v . In a further embodiment of the invention the therapeutically effective concentration ranges from about 0.1 to about 3 w v . In an even further embodiment of the invention the therapeutically effective concentration is selected from the group consisting of 0.5 1 and 2 w v . As described in the Examples below various dermatologically acceptable carriers may be used for topical formulations comprising the compounds of the invention including but not limited to ethanol propylene glycol benzyl alcohol transcutol and dibutyl sebacate. Particularly effective compositions for compound III have been found that comprise dibutyl sebacate as illustrated below in Example 28.

In other embodiments of the invention compositions for topical application further comprise other anti bacterial and or anti inflammatory agents. In particular embodiments of the invention compositions for topical application further comprise benzoyl peroxide or a retinoid for example retinoic acid tretinoin adapalene tazarotene or similar compounds.

In preparing the compositions in oral dosage form any of the usual pharmaceutical media may be employed. Solid carriers include starch lactose dicalcium phosphate microcrystalline cellulose sucrose and kaolin while liquid carriers include sterile water polyethylene glycols non ionic surfactants and edible oils such as corn peanut and sesame oils as are appropriate to the nature of the active ingredient and the particular form of administration. Adjuvants customarily employed in the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions may be advantageously included such as flavoring agents coloring agents preserving agents and antioxidants for example vitamin E ascorbic acid BHT and BHA.

The active compounds may also be administered parenterally or intraperitoneally. Solutions or suspensions of these active compounds as a free base or pharmacologically acceptable salt can be prepared in water suitably mixed with a surfactant such as hydroxypropyl cellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations may contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the form must be sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol or liquid polyethylene glycol suitable mixtures thereof and vegetable oils.

The effective dosage of active ingredient employed may vary depending on the particular compound employed the mode of administration and the severity of the condition being treated. However in general satisfactory results are obtained when the compounds of the invention are administered at a daily dosage of from about 0.1 mg kg to about 100 mg kg of animal or human body weight preferably given once a day or in divided doses two to four times a day or in sustained release form. For most large mammals including humans the total daily dosage is from about 0.05 g to 5.0 g preferably from about 100 mg to 1000 mg. Dosage forms suitable for internal use comprise from about 100 mg to 500 mg of the active compound in intimate admixture with a solid or liquid pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. This dosage regiment may be adjusted to provide the optimal therapeutic response. For example several divided doses may be administered daily or the dose may be proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation.

The production of the above mentioned pharmaceutical compositions and medicaments is carried out by any method known in the art for example by mixing the active ingredient s with the diluent s to form a pharmaceutical composition e.g. a granulate and then forming the composition into the medicament e.g. tablets .

The compounds of the invention and their salt forms and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds of the invention are useful in the control of infections. Given their microbiological activities and pharmacokinetic properties they are particularly useful in the control of pulmonary infections for example pneumonia bronchitis bronchiolitis tonsillitis and pharyngitis resulting from infection with and for example. The compounds of the invention and their salt forms and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds of the invention are further useful in the control of skin infections such as those resulting from infection by and various species of and acne resulting from and . The compounds of the invention and their salt forms and pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds of the invention are further useful in the control of ocular infections for example keratitis and conjunctivitis. In particular the compounds of the invention are useful in the treatment of infections caused by microorganisms that are resistant to erythromycin clarithromycin azithromycin and related macrolide antibacterial agents.

A detailed description of the invention having been provided above the following examples are given for the purpose of illustrating the present invention and shall not be construed as being a limitation on the scope of the invention or claims.

Trichloroisocyanuric acid 17.0 g 73 mmol was added in 1 g portions over 1 hour to a vigorously stirred mixture of 3 fluoropropanol 15.6 g 200 mmol NaHCO 16.8 g 200 mmol and TEMPO 0.35 g 2.2 mmol in CHCl 300 mL and water 10 mL . The temperature was kept at 20 25 C. using a water bath. After addition was complete the mixture was stirred until the orange color fades to a pale yellow approximately 30 minutes . The resulting solution was decanted from the gummy white residue filtered through a pad of silica gel 5 g and dried over MgSO 10 g for 30 minutes to provide a solution of 3 fluoropropanal in CHCl. The concentration was determined by H NMR as described for 3 chloropropanal above using the formula 3 fluoropropanal integral of 9.83 integral of 5.28 31.2 This procedure provided an approximately 0.5 M solution of 3 fluoropropanal in CHCl which was stable for several weeks when stored at 20 C.

Titanium tetrachloride 15.8 mL 144 mmol was added over 5 minutes to a vigorously stirred solution of N propionyl 2 benzoxazolone 25.0 g 131 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 250 mL cooled on ice and maintained under inert atmosphere. After 10 minutes the yellow slurry was treated with N methylmorpholine 15.8 mL 144 mmol over 5 minutes and stirring was continued for an additional 45 minutes. A 0.48 M solution of 3 fluoropropanal 310 mL 150 mmol was added to the dark red solution over 30 minutes such that the internal temperature remained below 10 C. After addition was complete the mixture was stirred for an additional 30 minutes on ice then at warm to ambient temperature an additional 1 hour. The reaction was treated with 250 mL of 2 N HCl with vigorous mixing and the phases were separated discarding the aqueous phase. The organic phase was filtered through a pad of silica gel 10 g which was subsequently washed with 100 mL of methyl tert butyl ether MTBE . The combined eluates were evaporated to dryness. The resulting solid mass was triturated with MTBE allowed to stand for 1 hour then collected by vacuum filtration yielding 26 gm of crystalline product. H NMR 8.07 8.02 m 1H 7.29 7.18 m 3H 4.77 4.05 m 2H 4.31 m 1H 3.96 dq J 7 3 Hz 1H 2.00 1.79 m 2H 1.34 d J 7 Hz 3H . C NMR 176.1 151.1 142.2 127.7 125.6 125.0 116.2 110.0 82.0 80.4 68.0 43.8 34.7 34.5 10.4.

A 25 w v solution of sodium methoxide in methanol 22 mL was added to a stirred solution of N S dipropionylcysteamine 18.9 g 0.1 mol in 100 mL of methanol at ambient temperature maintained under inert atmosphere. After 15 minutes acetic acid 4.0 mL was added followed by solid N 2R 3S 5 fluoro 3 hydroxy 2 methylpentanoyl 2 benzoxazolone 26.7 g 0.1 mol . The mixture was stirred for 15 minutes after complete dissolution of the solid is noted then acetic acid 1.7 mL was added and the mixture was evaporated under vacuum to yield a thick oil. The oil was dissolved in 500 mL of ethyl acetate and washed once with 500 mL of water. The organic phase was washed once with 250 mL of saturated aq. NaCl then dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated on the rotary evaporator to yield a thick yellow oil. The residue was dissolved in a minimal volume of dichloromethane and applied to a 100 gm column of silica gel. The column was washed with 2 1 hexanes ethyl acetate to elute 2 benzoxazolone. The product was eluted with 1 4 hexanes ethyl acetate and was evaporated under vacuum to a yellow oil. The oily product was mixed with 100 mL of heptane and heated to 55 C. then the resulting two phase mixture was allowed to cool to ambient temperature with vigorous stirring. The resulting white solid was collected by filtration and dried under vacuum giving 24 g of product mp 42 43 C.

Analytical methods 15F 6dEB and overall diketide combined enantiomers were determined by HPLC. Samples of whole broth were diluted with methanol four fold then clarified by filtration or centrifugation prior to analysis. Aliquots of 10 L were injected onto an Inertsil ODS3 5 m column 150 4.6 Varian then eluted using an acetonitrile water gradient Table 1 with a flow rate of 1 mL min at 50 C. 15F 6dEB was detected by ELSD SEDEX model 55 and total diketide was detected by UV at 250 nm. Under these conditions 15F 6dEB eluted at 9.5 minutes and diketide eluted at 7.3 minutes.

Culture media formulation and preparation SC VM6 1 medium supplemented with thiostrepton and apramycin was used for seed cultures Table 2 . Flask medium was autoclaved in 1L bottles for 90 minutes at 121 C. Fermenter medium was sterilized in place for 45 minutes at 121 C. Ten liter seed fermenters were autoclaved empty and then filled by transferring sterile medium from a 150 L fermenter. Thiostrepton was prepared as a 50 g L stock solution in DMSO filter sterilized and added to sterile medium. Apramycin sulfate was prepared as a 50 g L stock solution in DI water filter sterilized and added to sterile medium.

Seed culture preparation A cell bank WCB K388 148 of K460 2 was used to initiate all seed cultures. This strain is a derivative of CH999 comprising plasmids pKOS279 7A and pKOS146 145 encoding genes for modules 2 6 of 6 deoxyerythronolide B synthase and requires all seed media to be supplemented with thiostrepton and apramycin. Construction of this strain is described in Ward et al. Precursor directed biosynthesis of 6 deoxyerythronolide B analogues is improved by removal of the initial catalytic sitd of polyketide synthase . 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference and is detailed below in Example 29. Growth period and volumes of seed culture stages are summarized in Table 4.

Production culture operation The prepared seed culture ca. 90 L was sufficient to inoculate both F1000 and F1100. Each production fermenter containing about 750 L SC FM6 3F medium was inoculated by aseptic transfer of 38 L seed culture. Incubation temperature for production cultures was 30 C. Cultures were maintained at pH 6.5 via automated addition of 2.5 N HSOor 2.5 N NaOH. Dissolved oxygen set point was 40 and controlled using stir rate as cascade 1 minimum 150 rpm maximum 300 rpm and airflow rate as cascade 2 minimum 50 Lpm maximum 800 Lpm . Antifoam B 50 was added automatically as needed. A bolus feed of 2 L of 2R 3S 5 fluoro 3 hydroxy 2 methylpentanoyl N propionylcysteamine thioester prepared as a filter sterilized solution in DMSO at 400 g kg was delivered after two days of growth followed by a second bolus feed of 1 g L after four days of growth for a total of 3 g L diketide thioester feeding. Fermentation titers reached 0.94 1.2 g L in eight to nine days. Harvest was initiated 8 9 days after inoculation.

Primary recovery Broth was filtered using rotary vacuum drum filtration. Prior to the filtration process 150 lb. Celite Hyflo Celite Corp. was mixed into the broth followed by 4.8 L Cysep 349 Cytec Inc. diluted to 10 L with deionized DI water. A precoat of Celite hyflo was applied to the WesTech rotary vacuum drum filter equipment number M2 by recirculating a slurry of 11 kg of Celite Hyflo in 50 L DI water with vacuum until the maximum precoat thickness ca. 2 inches was attained. Filtration was then initiated with the typical conditions as follows drum speed setting 4 knife indexing setting 3 agitator setting 5 vacuum 26 inches Hg cake wash water rate 2 L min. Antifoam B 25 was added to the filtrate receiver tank as needed typically 200 500 mL . The filtrate was pumped through a polishing filter Cuno Zeta Plus part no. 4516704 10M02 before collecting in tanks. Typical yield of product in filtrates was 95 percent with the remainder of product in the discarded filter cake.

Capture 15F 6dEB was captured from the filtrate by using Diaion HP20SS resin Itochu Chemicals America Inc. as follows. A column was prepared with sufficient HP20SS resin to achieve a bed height of at least 30 cm and product loading of 

The capture operation serves to isolate product from broth filtrate and to generate material of sufficient purity for bioconversion by fermentation. The majority of fermentation components were removed in the filtrate flow through or wash eluates. The residual diketide was also removed during the wash steps. The majority of 15F 6dEB eluted from 0.4 3.5 CV of the elution solvent. The capture operation typically achieved 75 purity with a recovery yield of 85 .

Solvent Exchange The product pool from the capture operation was diluted with water to 25 v v MeOH water. A column was prepared with sufficient Bakerbond C18 40 m resin J. T. Baker to achieve a bed height of at least 20 cm and product loading of 95 recovery. Elution of 15F 6dEB can be monitored online by UV absorbance at 254 nm. After completion of the solvent exchange operation the resin was cleaned by washing with 3 CV of 80 v v MeOH 20 v v 50 mM Tris pH 7.8. The resin was then washed with 2 CV of 100 MeOH and stored for later use.

Vacuum Distillation and Filtration Operations The solvent exchange eluate containing the 15F 6dEB was further concentrated by vacuum distillation and filtered to prepare the 15F 6dEB solution for bioconversion. Vacuum distillation was carried out using a R 220 Buchi Rotavapor System Buchi Labs Switzerland with a 20L flask or equivalent apparatus. The rotavapor system was operated with waterbath at 40 C. chiller at 100 g L 15F 6dEB. This filtered pool was then ready for sterilization with an appropriate filter and feeding to the bioconversion fermentation.

Characterization A sample of crude 15 F 6dEB was purified by chromatography on silica gel using a gradient of hexanes and ethyl acetate. Fractions containing the product were pooled and concentrated to a pale yellow oil that spontaneously crystallized. Recrystallization from ether hexane gave pure 15 fluoro 6 deoxyerythronolide B. APCI MS m z 405 M H . F NMR CDCl 376 MHz 222.0 relative to CFCOH at 77.0 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 5.49 m 1H 4.94 m 2H 3.99 m 1H 3.90 d 1H J 10 3.84 d 1H J 4 3.70 m 1H 3.18 br s 1H 2.79 m 1H 2.77 m 1H 2.61 m 1H 2.47 br s 1H 2.20 m 1H 2.00 m 1H 1.92 m 1H 1.85 m 1H 1.70 m 1H 1.65 dd 1H J 4 10 1.29 d 3H J 7 1.24 dd 1H J 4 10 1.07 d 3H J 7 1.06 d 3H J 7 1.05 d 3H J 7 1.02 d 3H J 7 0.93 d 3H J 7 . C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 213.70 177.98 80.68 d J 167 Hz 79.34 76.37 70.84 d J 4 Hz 70.74 43.88 43.27 41.13 39.54 37.63 37.52 35.52 33.34 d J 20 Hz 16.63 14.60 13.32 9.20 6.92 6.28.

Analytical methods Filtrate samples were analyzed for 15F EryA using a HPLC equipped with an evaporative light scattering detector ELSD . Samples of filtrate were diluted four fold with methanol MeOH and then were clarified by filtration. Aliquots of 10 L of filtered sample were injected onto a guard column 4.6 mm 10 mm Metasil Basic 5 m Varian and main column 4.6 mm 250 mm Metasil Basic 5 m Varian held at 50 C. 15F EryA was resolved using an isocratic method 1 mL min flowrate consisting of 55 organic 4 1 acetonitrile 20 mM ammonium acetate in methanol mixture and 45 5 mM ammonium acetate in water. 15F EryA eluted at 5.0 min and was quantitated using a standard curve 100 500 mg L 15F EryA fitted with a power function Y aX that was generated each time samples are analyzed.

In process purification samples were analyzed for 15F EryA using a HPLC equipped with a UV detector. Samples were diluted appropriately 1 5 g L 15F EryA in methanol and 10 L was injected onto a Phenomenex Luna C18 2 5 m 250 mm 4.6 mm column held at 40 C. 15F EryA was resolved using an isocratic method with mobile phase 40 55 5 20 mM sodium phosphate pH 8 buffer acetonitrile methanol at 1.25 mL min and was detected by UV absorbance at 210 nm. Under these conditions 15F EryA elutes at 5.9 min and was quantitated using a linear fit Y aX b of standards 0.34 g L and 2 g L . Typical measurement uncertainty was 

The total solids concentration in purification pools is determined by drying 5 10 mL of solution in a moisture balance to constant weight. Total solids concentration was used to estimate in process purity as 15F EryA concentration divided by solids concentration.

15F 6dEB precursor 15F 6dEB 85 purity was produced as described in Example 4 above. The 15F 6dEB was dissolved in ethanol to yield a solution of 193 g kg 15F 6dEB. This solution was filter sterilized before being fed to the fermentation.

Culture media formulation and preparation SE VI medium supplemented with apramycin was used for seed cultures Table 6 . Flask medium was autoclaved in 1 L bottles for 90 minutes at 121 C. Fermenter medium was sterilized in place for 45 minutes at 121 C. Ten liter seed fermenters were autoclaved empty and then filled by transferring sterile medium from a 150 L fermenter. Apramycin sulfate was prepared as a 50 g L stock solution in DI water filter sterilized and added to sterile medium. SE F2 medium was used for production cultures Table 7 . Fermenter medium was sterilized in place for 45 minutes at 121 C.

Nutrient feeds Two nutrient feeds were prepared for the production fermentation soy oil Sigma was filter sterilized prior to feeding and 300 g kg corn dextrin Sigma part D 2256 was sterilized in place for 45 minutes at 121 C.

Seed culture preparation strain K301 105B cell bank WCB K479 042 was used to initiate all seed cultures. This strain requires all seed media to be supplemented with apramycin. Growth period and volumes of seed culture stages are summarized in Table 8.

Production culture operation The prepared seed culture ca. 90 L was sufficient to inoculate two large scale fermenters. Each production fermenter containing approximately 600 L SE F2 medium was inoculated by aseptic transfer of 30 L seed culture. The total amount of 15F 6dEB fed to each fermenter ca. 1 kg was based on anticipated bioconversion yield and the known loading capacity of downstream processes. A reduced medium volume 600 L provided sufficient bioconversion capacity while simplifying downstream processing. Process value set points as well as precursor and nutrient feed parameters are summarized in Table 9. Fermentation titers reached 2.0 2.3 g L in five to six days. The molar yield of 15F EryA from 15F 6dEB was 76 82 .

Primary recovery Broth was harvested at 5 6 days and was filtered using rotary vacuum drum filtration. Prior to the filtration process 100 lb of Celite Hyflo Celite Corp. was mixed into the broth followed by 1.4 L Cysep 349 Cytec Inc. diluted to 10 L with DI water. A precoat of Celite hyflo was applied to the WesTech rotary vacuum drum filter equipment number M2 by recirculating a slurry of 11 kg Celite Hyflo in 50 L DI water with vacuum until the maximum precoat thickness ca. 2 inches was attained. Filtration was then initiated with the typical conditions as follows drum speed setting 4 knife indexing setting 3 agitator setting 5 vacuum 26 inches Hg cake wash water rate 2 L min. Antifoam B 25 was added to the filtrate receiver tank as needed typically 100 300 mL . The filtrate was pumped through a polishing filter Cuno Zeta Plus part no. 4516704 10M02 before collecting in tanks. Typical yield of product in filtrates was 95 percent with the remainder of product in the discarded filter cake.

Capture 15F EryA was captured from the above described filtrate using Diaion HP20SS resin Itochu Chemicals America Inc. as follows. A column was prepared with sufficient HP20SS resin to achieve a bed height of at least 26 cm and product loading of 

After completion of the capture operation the HP20SS resin is cleaned by washing with 3 CV of 50 v v MeOH water with 0.05 N NaOH at 60 120 cm hr 1.5 3 LPM . Next the resin is washed with at least 5 CV of water at 60 120 cm hr until the effluent is at pH 6 8. Finally the resin is washed with 2 CV of 100 MeOH and stored for later use.

Vacuum Distillation The product pool from the capture operation was concentrated by vacuum distillation to remove MeOH. Vacuum distillation was carried out using a R 220 Buchi Rotavapor System Buchi Labs Switzerland with a 20L flask or equivalent apparatus. The rotavapor system was initially operated with waterbath at 40 50 C. chiller at 

Liquid Liquid Extraction The concentrated capture pool was transferred to a suitable container to perform liquid liquid extraction with ethyl acetate EtOAc . A saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate was added at least two fold dilution to a final volume of 26 L per 800 L of harvested broth. This aqueous pool or feed was verified to be at pH 8 9 before extraction. The pH may be adjusted up to pH 8 with sodium hydroxide if necessary. The feed was extracted by adding volume of ethyl acetate EtOAc and agitating gently for 2 minutes i.e. agitating at the minimum rate that the mixture visually appeared well mixed . The extraction mixture was allowed to settle until phases separated typically 1 2 hrs with organic extract on top of aqueous raffinate . The EtOAc extract was transferred to a new container. The extraction was repeated twice with volume of EtOAc and adjustment of raffinate to pH 8 9 prior to each extraction if necessary. The organic extracts were combined and extracted sequentially with volume saturated sodium bicarbonate in water and volume saturated sodium chloride in water.

Drying The organic pool from the liquid liquid extraction was dried to solids to remove all solvent. The organic pool was dried to solids in a R 220 Buchi Rotavapor System with a 20 L flask. The rotavapor system was operated with waterbath at 40 C. chiller at 

Crystallization High purity 15F EryA was produced by crystallization of the product from a MeOH water solvent system. The following procedure used HPLC grade MeOH and water. The dried extraction solids were dissolved by adding 4 L of MeOH per 1 kg of 15F Ery A and mixing gently e.g. 60 rpm in a 20L flask in rotavapor system for 30 45 min. The solution was filtered with a 0.2 m PVDF membrane Millipore Millipak 100 Gamma Gold or equivalent to remove fine particulates. The filtered solids are washed with an additional 1 L of MeOH per 1 kg of 15F Ery A and the combined filtrates are transferred to a suitable crystallization vessel capable of sufficient agitation to maintain a well mixed system. The starting material solids added 1 L of volume per 1 kg of 15F Ery A to bring the initial crystallization solution to 6 L per 1 kg of 15F Ery A. The crystallization was started by adding 3.33 L of water per 1 kg of 15F Ery A over 60 min 55.6 mL min to achieve a 6 4 MeOH water ratio. Crystal formation was initiated by adding a seed crystal slurry 0.5 g 15F EryA crystals in 5 mL of 30 v v MeOH and holding for 1 hr. Initiation of crystallization was assessed by visual observation of increased turbidity. After the hold time 8.33 L of water per 1 kg of 15F Ery A were added over 4 hrs 34.7 mL min to achieve the final 3 7 MeOH water ratio. The crystallization proceeded to completion over the next 12 16 hrs. The high purity 15F EryA crystals were harvested by filtration Whatman 2 filter paper or equivalent and the filtrate collected as the mother liquor. The filtered crystals were washed with 2 L of 30 v v MeOH and the filtrate was collected as the crystal wash. The washed crystals were transferred to a drying container and dried in a vacuum oven 40 C. and 5 20 mBar to constant weight. The dried crystals were transferred to a new container as the final product. The crystallizer and all equipment were rinsed with 100 MeOH to remove residual product and collected as the equipment rinse. The crystallization of two batches resulted in 79 and 84 yield respectively of crystals of 90 purity as determined by HPLC assay H NMR and C NMR. The purification of the two combined large scale fermentations resulted in a combined amount of 1.9 kg of high purity 15F EryA.

A 50 aqueous solution of hydroxylamine 750 mL was added to a mixture of 15 fluoro erythromycin A 750 g isopropanol 2000 mL and acetic acid 250 mL and the resulting solution was warmed to 50 C. and stirred for 19.5 hours. The mixture was cooled on ice and treated with a solution of KOH 240 g in water 1000 mL maintaining the temperature below 30 C. The resulting mixture was extracted twice with 1000 mL of ethyl acetate. The organic extracts were combined washed sequentially with water 1000 mL sat. aq. NaHCO 500 mL and twice with brine 500 mL then dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. Methanol 250 mL was added to dissolve the residue then 2000 mL of hexanes was added and the mixture was evaporated to dryness in vacuo this step was repeated. The residue was purified by crystallization from methanol CHClto provide 15 fluoroerythromycin A 9 E oxime 613 g . LC MS m z 767.5 M H . C NMR CDOD 174.8 169.7 102.5 96.1 82.3 d J 162 Hz 82.6 78.9 77.8 74.8 74.4 73.1 71.8 71.1 70.5 67.4 65.3 65.0 49.3 44.6 40.7 2C 38.1 35.4 30.3 29.6 d J 18 Hz 27.0 25.6 21.9 21.3 19.1 3C 17.4 15.9 14.9 9.6.

A mixture of 15 fluoroerythromycin A 9 E oxime 503 g and benzoic anhydride 668 g was dissolved in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 5.4 L and triethylamine 488 mL was added followed by 4 dimethylamino pyridine 80 g . The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 40 hours then cooled on ice and treated with N N dimethylethylenediamine 130 mL at such a rate as to keep the internal temperature below 10 C. The solution was stirred for an additional 40 minutes then poured into methyl tert butyl ether 5.5 L and washed twice with 5 w v aqueous KHPO 5 L . The organic phase was further washed sequentially with sat. aq. NaHCO 4 L and brine 2 L then dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude product was crystallized from isopropanol 3 L yielding 570 g of product. LC MS m z 1079.5 M H . C NMR CDCl 179.3 174.8 166.0 165.4 163.8 133.2 2C 132.6 130.7 129.9 129.6 129.5 129.4 128.9 128.5 128.3 128.2 100.2 95.7 83.5 82.5 d J 170 Hz 79.0 78.8 74.7 73.9 72.9 72.5 d J 4 Hz 72.3 69.3 67.7 63.7 63.4 49.5 44.3 40.8 2C 35.3 34.5 31.6 29.4 d J 20 Hz 28.6 21.2 18.4 18.2 16.4 15.0 14.7 9.3.

A mixture of allyl tert butyl carbonate 160 mg and 15 fluoroerythromycin A 9 oxime 2 4 9 tri O benzoate 450 mg was dissolved in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 2 mL and sparged with nitrogen for 5 minutes. Tris dibenzylideneacetone palladium chloroform 5 mg was added followed by tert butyl isocyanide 5 L and the greenish brown mixture was heated in an 80 C. bath for 16 hours. The reaction was cooled to ambient temperature and applied to a column of silica gel 120 g equilibrated in 10 acetone hexanes 1 EtN. The column was eluted with a linear gradient from 10 to 50 acetone hexanes 1 EtN and the fractions containing product were pooled and evaporated to dryness yielding 355 mg of the product as a white powder. MS m z 1120 M H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 177.2 174.3 166.1 165.5 163.1 134.4 133.4 133.1 132.6 130.7 129.8 129.6 129.3 129.2 128.6 128.4 128.2 117.2 99.7 96.2 83.3 82.5 d J 165 Hz 79.1 79.0 78.7 78.3 73.7 72.9 72.8 72.6 69.0 67.2 65.6 63.7 63.6 49.5 44.1 40.8 2C 37.7 36.6 35.3 34.3 31.6 30.9 29.5 d J 20 Hz 28.6 21.3 21.2 18.9 18.5 16.5 15.3 15.1 9.5.

6 O allyl 15 fluoroerythromycin A 9 oxime 2 4 9 tri O benzoate crude product from allylation of 15 fluoroerythromycin A 9 oxime 2 4 9 tri O benzoate 482 mmol was dissolved in a mixture of tetrahydrofuran 1 L and isopropanol 1.5 L and cooled to 12 C. then treated with 1 M NaOH 526 mL for 90 minutes. The solution was partitioned between methyl tert butyl ether 4 L and sat. aq. NaHCO 3 L . The aqueous phase was extracted twice with methyl tert butyl ether 2 L and the organic extracts were combined dried with MgSO filtered and evaporated to dryness to provide 524 g of the product. LC MS m z 1015.6 M H . C NMR 100 MHz CDCl 174.6 169.8 166.1 165.4 136.3 133.3 132.6 130.8 129.8 129.6 128.4 128.2 115.9 99.8 96.1 82.5 d J 164 Hz 79.3 79.2 78.8 78.4 73.6 72.9 72.5 69.5 67.2 65.6 63.6 49.5 44.2 40.9 2C 38.1 36.2 35.3 32.8 31.8 29.6 d J 19 Hz 25.3 21.9 21.2 21.1 18.8 18.4 16.3 15.3 14.8 9.4.

To a solution of 524 g of 6 O allyl 15 fluoroerythromycin A 9 oxime 2 4 di O benzoate in ethanol 2 L was added water 2 L followed by sodium hydrosulfite 732 g . The mixture was degassed for 20 minutes by sparging with nitrogen. Formic acid 192 mL was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 2.5 hours. After cooling the mixture was concentrated in vacuo to remove the ethanol and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc 3 L and sat. aq. NaHCO 2 L . The aqueous phase was extracted twice with EtOAc 2 L . The combined organics were dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in acetone 200 mL diluted with hexane 800 mL and mixed with 200 g of silica gel. The resulting slurry was placed on a column of silica gel 550 g packed with 20 acetone hexanes containing 1 EtN. The column was eluted with 20 acetone hexanes containing 1 EtN and fractions containing product were combined and concentrated in vacuo to provide 514 g of residue. The residue was crystallized from 514 mL of ethanol to provide 304 g of pure product. The mother liquors were concentrated to yield 150 g of residue which was chromatographed as described above using 792 g of silica gel to provide an additional 102 g of product. LC MS m z 1000.6 M H . C NMR CDCl 219.9 174.6 166.1 165.4 135.6 133.3 132.6 130.8 129.8 129.6 128.3 128.2 117.0 99.8 96.1 82.5 d J 164 Hz 79.9 79.1 78.8 78.3 73.9 72.9 72.5 72.3 br 68.0 67.3 65.7 63.7 49.5 45.3 44.2 40.9 2C 38.0 37.6 37.3 35.3 31.6 29.4 d J 19 Hz 21.5 21.2 21.0 18.5 18.3 16.3 15.3 12.2 9.4.

A solution of 6 O allyl 15 fluoroerythromycin A 2 4 di O benzoate 404 g and 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole 281.4 g in tetrahydrofuran 3 L and dimethylformamide 3 L was cooled on ice and sodium hydride 23.3 g was added in portions to control foaming and to keep the internal temperature below 10 C. The mixture was warmed to ambient temperature and stirred for 18 hours. The resulting mixture was fitted with a dry ice condenser and cooled to 15 C. Anhydrous ammonia gas was condensed into the reaction for 90 minutes at a rate of 1.7 L min then the mixture was allowed to warm to 15 C. over a period of 6 hours. The dry ice condenser was removed potassium tert butoxide 49.7 g was added and the mixture was stirred for 17 hours. The solution was poured into 4 L of 5 w v aqueous KHPOand extracted twice with methyl tert butyl ether 4 L . The extracts were combined washed sequentially with sat. aq. NaHCO 4 L twice with water 4 L and brine 4 L then dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The crude material was dissolved in 160 mL of hot acetone and diluted with 480 mL of hexanes then allowed to crystallize. The mother liquors were concentrated then slurried with 150 g of silica gel in 100 mL of acetone and 200 mL of hexanes and chromatographed on silica gel 900 g eluting with 25 acetone hexanes. Product containing fractions were combined and evaporated to provide additional product total 298 g . LC MS m z 1025.6 M H . C NMR CDCl 217.5 175.5 166.1 166.3 157.8 134.3 133.3 132.7 130.7 129.6 129.5 128.4 128.2 118.4 99.9 95.9 83.3 81.7 d J 165 Hz 79.3 79.1 78.7 77.7 72.9 72.5 71.8 67.5 65.5 63.6 63.5 57.0 49.5 45.1 44.4 40.8 2C 39.1 37.8 37.2 35.1 31.7 30.3 21.2 21.0 18.4 18.3 14.6 13.7 13.4 9.4.

A solution of 6 O allyl 11 amino 11 deoxy 15 fluoroerythromycin A 11 12 cyclic carbamate 2 4 di O benzoate 295 g 7 quinolyl triflate 82 g bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dppf 8 g and N N diisopropylethylamine 100 mL in 1200 mL of anhydrous dimethylformamide was sparged with nitrogen for 15 minutes then treated with palladium bromide 4 g and heated at 80 C. for 14 hours. The mixture was cooled and partitioned between ethyl acetate 3 L and sat. aq. NaHCO 3 L . The organic phase was washed twice with water 3 L and the combined aqueous phases were extracted with ethyl acetate 3 L . The organic phases were combined dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in 1 L of 50 acetone hexanes and slurried with 260 g of silica gel. The mixture was then placed on a column of silica gel 670 g packed with 50 acetone hexanes 0.1 EtN. Fractions containing the product were combined and evaporated yielding 318 g of product. LC MS m z 1152.6 M H 576.8 M 2H . C NMR CDCl 217.7 175.8 166.1 165.3 157.3 150.5 148.6 137.8 135.7 133.3 132.7 130.7 129.8 129.7 129.6 128.3 128.2 128.0 127.2 124.0 120.7 100.1 96.0 83.0 81.7 d J 165 Hz 79.3 78.7 2C 77.9 73.0 72.5 72.1 67.6 64.8 63.7 63.6 57.5 49.6 45.2 44.4 40.8 2C 39.4 37.9 37.2 36.4 35.1 31.7 21.3 21.2 21.1 18.5 18.3 14.6 13.6 13.4 9.4.

Trifluoroacetic acid 277 mL was added over 30 minutes to a solution of 6 O 1 7 quinolyl 3 propenyl 11 amino 11 deoxy 15 fluoroerythromycin A 11 12 cyclic carbamate 2 4 di O benzoate 318 g and triethylsilane 132 mL in 1.4 L of CHCl. The mixture was stirred for 2.5 hours then cooled on ice and treated with a solution of NaOH 140 g in water 2 L keeping the internal temperature below 20 C. The mixture was partitioned between CHCl 2 L and sat. aq. NaHCO 1 L and the aqueous phase was extracted twice with CHCl 2 L . The organic phases were combined dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in 2 L of acetonitrile and extracted six times with hexanes 2 L and the acetonitrile phase was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in 1 L of 40 acetone hexanes and mixed with 200 g of silica gel. The slurry was placed on a column of silica gel 880 g packed with 40 acetone hexanes 1 EtN. The column was eluted sequentially with 2 L of 40 acetone hexanes 1 EtN followed by 6 L of 50 acetone hexanes 1 EtN. Product containing fractions were combined and evaporated in vacuo providing 198 g of product. LC MS m z 890.5 M H 445.7 M 2H . C NMR CDCl 217.3 175.2 165.4 157.7 150.2 148.2 138.3 136.2 132.7 132.2 130.6 129.8 128.3 128.2 128.0 127.4 124.1 120.8 99.2 83.2 81.7 d J 165 Hz 80.7 80.3 79.0 72.1 71.6 68.9 64.1 63.0 57.8 45.4 43.9 40.8 38.2 37.0 36.1 32.2 31 5 30.3 30.1 22.6 21.0 20.1 18.2 14.7 14.1 13.7 13.4 8.1.

To a mixture of 44 g of N chlorosuccinimide in dichloromethane 300 ml at 15 C. was added 27.5 mL of methyl sulfide over 40 minutes maintaining the internal temperature below 15 C. After stirring for a further 30 minutes with the internal temperature maintained at 15 C. a precooled 15 C. solution of 196 g of 6 O 1 7 quinolyl 3 propenyl 11 amino 11 deoxy 3 descladinosyl 15 fluoroerythromycin A 11 12 cyclic carbamate 2 O benzoate in dichloromethane 600 ml was added via canula. The solution was stirred between 15 C. and 13 C. for 30 minutes before adding 34 mL of triethylamine. The solution was maintained at 10 C. for 20 minutes before warming to room temperature over 90 minutes. The solution was diluted with dichloromethane 500 ml and washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 1000 ml . The combined aqueous phases were back extracted with CHCl 500 ml . The combined organics were washed with brine 1000 ml dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. Column chromatography silica 35 acetone hexane 1 EtN then 45 acetone hexane 1 EtN yielded the product 162 g as a yellow solid. LC MS m z 888.5 M H 444.7 M 2H . C NMR CDCl 217.1 205.3 169.2 165.2 157.1 150.6 148.6 137.7 135.7 133.0 132.8 130.4 129.6 128.2 128.1 128.0 127.5 123.9 120.7 100.7 82.7 81.8 d J 165 Hz 78.6 75.5 73.9 71.9 69.1 64.2 63.4 57.8 50.8 46.1 45.7 44.9 40.7 2C 38.5 37.1 31.4 30.2 d J 20 Hz 21.0 20.2 18.0 14.3 13.6 13.5 13.2 11.5.

A solution of 1.46 g of 6 O 1 7 quinolyl 3 propenyl 11 amino 11 deoxy 3 descladinosyl 3 oxo 15 fluoroerythromycin A 11 12 cyclic carbamate 2 O benzoate in 20 mL of methanol was heated at 50 C. for 16 hours then cooled and evaporated to dryness in vacuo. Chromatography on silica gel linear gradient from 10 acetone to 80 acetone in hexanes 1 EtN yielded the product which was crystallized from 1 1 acetone hexanes. C NMR CDCl 217.1 205.2 169.3 157.1 150.5 148.6 137.8 135.7 133.0 128.1 127.9 127.6 124.0 120.7 102.9 82.8 81.7 d J 166 Hz 78.6 73.8 70.2 69.5 65.8 64.3 57.8 50.9 46.3 45.0 40.1 2C 38.9 37.2 30.3 d J 20 Hz 28.2 21.1 20.3 18.0 14.3 13.7 13.5.

To a solution of 160 g of 6 O 1 7 quinolyl 3 propenyl 11 amino 11 deoxy 3 descladinosyl 3 oxo 15 fluoroerythromycin A 11 12 cyclic carbamate 2 O benzoate in 2400 mL of 1 1 dimethylformamide tetrahydrofuran at 78 C. was added 270 mL of a 1.0 M solution of sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide in tetrahydrofuran. The solution was allowed to warm to 30 C. internal temperature over a period of 2 hours. The solution was cooled to 78 C. and 63 g of N fluorobenzenesulfonamide was added as a solution in 400 mL of tetrahydrofuran via cannula. The solution was allowed to warm to 30 C. over 1 hour before partitioning between EtOAc 4 L and NaHCO 4 L . The organics were further washed with water 4 L . The combined aqueous phases were back extracted with EtOAc 1 L . The combined organics were washed with brine 2 L and dried MgSO before filtering and concentrating under reduced pressure. Column chromatography silica gel 45 acetone hexane 1 EtN followed by 60 acetone hexane 1 EtN yielded the product 152 g as a yellow solid. LC MS m z 906.5 M H 453.7 M 2H . C NMR CDCl 217.7 203.5 d J 28 Hz 165.1 162.4 156.6 150.6 148.6 137.7 135.7 132.8 2C 130.2 129.7 128.4 128.3 127.9 127.7 124.0 120.8 82.6 81.6 d J 166 Hz 79.3 78.4 75.2 72.0 69.3 64.1 63.4 57.8 44.1 40.7 2C 40.5 38.6 37.2 36.4 31.2 2C 29.8 d J 20 Hz 24.4 d J 22 Hz 20.9 17.6 14.8 13.7 13.2.

A solution of 149 g of 6 O 1 7 quinolyl 3 propenyl 11 amino 11 deoxy 3 descladinosyl 3 oxo 2 15 difluoroerythromycin A 11 12 cyclic carbamate 2 O benzoate in 1650 mL of methanol was heated at 50 C. for 18 hours. After cooling the solvent was concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was triturated with 500 mL of 10 acetone hexanes then crystallized from 150 mL of 1 1 acetone hexanes. The mother liquors were concentrated and chromatographed on silica gel using 50 acetone hexanes 1 EtN followed by 60 acetone hexanes 1 EtN. Fractions containing product were combined and evaporated and the residue was crystallized from 1 1 acetone hexanes as described above. A third crop of crystals was obtained from the mother liquors as described above. Total yield of product was 64.8 g. LC MS m z 802.5 M H 401.7 M 2H . C NMR CDCl 217.7 203.9 d J 28 Hz 165.4 d J 23 Hz 156.6 150.7 148.7 137.8 135.7 132.9 128.5 128.3 128.0 127.8 124.1 120.8 104.1 97.9 d J 206 Hz 82.7 82.4 80.8 79.8 79.3 75.3 70.4 69.7 65.8 64.2 57.9 44.2 40.7 40.2 2C 38.9 37.4 30.0 d J 20 Hz 28.1 24.8 d J 21 Hz 21.2 21.0 17.7 15.4 13.9 13.3.

Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 28.5 mL was added dropwise to a solution of 7 hydroxyquinoline 22.0 g in anhydrous pyridine 100 mL cooled on ice. After 10 minutes the mixture was warmed to ambient temperature and stirred overnight. The mixture was poured into 1000 mL of ice cold 1 N HCl and extracted three times with 500 mL of ether. The combined organic extracts were washed once with water and once with brine then dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated. The crude product was chromatographed on silica gel 1 1 ethyl acetate hexanes then crystallized from hot hexane yielding 32.3 g of product as pale yellow crystals. H NMR CDCl 8.98 1H dd J 1.6 4.4 Hz 8.21 1H d J 7.6 Hz 8.03 1H d J 2.4 Hz 7.91 1H d J 8.8 Hz 7.48 2H m . C NMR CDCl 151.4 149.9 146.9 137.3 130.4 127.5 122.3 121.1 120.2 118.7 q J 320 Hz .

A solution of 6 O 1 7 quinolyl 3 propenyl 11 amino 11 deoxy 3 descladinosyl 3 oxo 2 15 difluoroerythromycin A 11 12 cyclic carbamate 800 mg and propionic anhydride 260 mg in 5 mL of ethyl acetate is stirred for 16 hours at ambient temperature. The mixture is washed with sat. aq. NaHCO then dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated. The residue is chromatographed on silica gel using a gradient from 10 to 80 acetone in hexanes containing 1 EtN.

A solution of 6 O 1 7 quinolyl 3 propenyl 11 amino 11 deoxy 3 descladinosyl 3 oxo 15 fluoroerythromycin A 11 12 cyclic carbamate 780 mg and propionic anhydride 260 mg in 5 mL of ethyl acetate is stirred for 16 hours at ambient temperature. The mixture is washed with sat. aq. NaHCO then dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated. The residue is chromatographed on silica gel using a gradient from 10 to 80 acetone in hexanes containing 1 EtN.

Minimum inhibitory concentrations MICs were determined by the NCCLS broth microdilution procedure for susceptibility testing for bacteria that grow aerobically National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards 1997. Methods for dilution antimicrobial susceptibility tests for bacteria that grow aerobically 4ed. Approved standard. NCCLS Document M7 A4. National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards Villanova Pa. . Stock solutions were prepared on the day of the test and appropriate aliquots were added to cation adjusted Mueller Hinton broth CAMHB DIFCO or test media. Two fold serial dilutions were prepared and added to wells in microtiter plates. Final test concentrations ranged from 8 to 0.004 ug ml. Broth cultures of bacteria inoculated from growth on overnight plates for all test bacteria except and were incubated at 35 C. and then adjusted to the Kirby Bauer standard and diluted in CAMHB to achieve a final inoculum concentration of approximately 5 10CFU ml. Inocula for and were prepared by directly suspending colonies from an overnight plate adjusting the turbidity and diluting as above. media was supplemented with 3 lysed horse blood. All plates were incubated in ambient air at 35 C. for 20 24 h for and and 16 20 h for all other bacteria. The MIC endpoints were determined by reading the lowest concentration of test compound that completely inhibited the growth of the test bacteria. Results for compounds described in the above Examples are listed in Table 11.

The in vivo efficacy of compounds II and III were evaluated in a rat lower respiratory tract infection model. Groups of 8 rats were infected intratracheally with 0.5 mL containing 10CFUs of ATCC 6303 in 5 hog gastric mucin. Compounds dissolved in ethanol were administered by oral gavage daily over 3 days starting 18 hours post inoculation. Lungs were aseptically removed from survivors 12 hours after the last dose and examined for visible signs of infection then homogenized in sterile PBS and plated for determination of CFUs by log plating on Columbia agar nalidixic acid plates. As shown in Table 12 both compounds II and III were efficacious at reducing the bacterial load in the rat lungs and increasing survival relative to control animals.

Minimum inhibitory concentrations MICs were determined by the NCCLS Reference Agar Dilution Method M11 A5 Vol. 21 No. 2 for anaerobic bacteria. A panel of 84 antibiotic susceptible and resistant strains of Propionibacteria from distinct geographic locations were selected. Following revival from frozen stocks each strain was purity plated onto Wilkins Chalgren Agar pH 7.2 Oxoid UK and the appropriate antibiotic resistance susceptibility phenotype was confirmed by antibiotic disc testing. Each strain was subjected to an agar dilution MIC assay. Stock solutions of compound III in DMSO were added to ranges of agar plates in doubling concentrations from 0.0625 to 128 g mL. As comparators erythromycin in ethanol was tested from 0.0625 to 128 g mL and clindamycin in water was tested from 0.0625 to 512 g mL. The inocula for each batch of strains were prepared from 7 day old Wilkins Chalgren Agar plate cultures by resuspension of colonies in Wilkins Chalgren Anaerobe broth pH 7.2 Oxoid UK to an optical density OD of 0.2 0.02. The inoculum 1.0 2.0 L for each strain was applied to a Wilkins Chalgren Agar MIC plate in a grid pattern using a Multipoint Inoculator Denley UK . All agar plates were incubated at 37 C. for 3 days under anaerobic conditions in AnaeroPack 7 liter rectangular jars Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company Inc. Japan . Anaerobic conditions were achieved in each jar by the addition of two GENbox anaer sachets Biomerieux France . MIC values determined by this method are given in Table 13.

Total doses of drug 0.47 0.94 1.88 3.75 7.5 and 15 mg kg or equivalent volumes of vehicle were administered incrementally as an i.v. bolus to groups of 6 anesthetized rats or guinea pigs at 0 15 30 45 60 and 75 minutes. Hemodynamic parameters including mean arterial pressure MAP and heart rate HR and ECG parameters QT and PR intervals and QRS duration were recorded. For the rat injection of vehicle gave a 16 increase in QT interval over baseline. For the guinea pig injection of vehicle gave a 3 increase in QT interval over baseline. The data are summarized in Tables 14 and 15.

Four male beagle dogs obtained from Marshall Farms USA Inc. North Rose N.Y. were surgically instrumented with telemetry transducers Data Sciences International type RL11M2 D70 PCT to assess arterial blood pressure ABP and lead II electrocardiogram ECG parameters.

The dosing route was an intravenous infusion jugular vein access . The infusion was accomplished using a CADD Prizm ambulatory infusion pump attached to a jacket worn by the dog. The dose duration for the intravenous infusion was 30 min for all doses administered except the last dose 30 mg kg where the infusion period was extended to 45 min to accommodate the larger dose volume required for this dose. The vehicle dose and diluent for the test article was 0.05 M sodium citrate in sterile water for injection.

There was one treatment group of four non na ve dogs and the study was comprised of both pharmacokinetic and telemetry phases as summarized in the dose administration table for compound III Table 16 below. At least one week was given between dosings to allow clearance of the drug.

For the pharmacokinetic PK phase the blood collection intervals were predose 10 20 30 end dose time 35 45 60 90 150 270 390 510 1440 and 2880 min relative to the start of the infusion. Whole blood 2 mL was collected into Vacutainerss BD Franklin N.J. containing sodium heparin as the anticoagulant agent. Blood samples were centrifuged at a speed of 3000 rpm a temperature of 4 C. and a run time of 10 min. Plasma samples were transferred to amber glass vials and analyzed by LC MS MS to determine drug concentrations.

For the telemetry phase of the study collection of hemodynamic and lead II ECG data commenced approximately 30 min prior to dosing and ended approximately 6 h post dose. Systolic blood pressure SBP diastolic blood pressure DBP HR and lead II ECG variables PR interval QRS duration RR interval and QT interval were acquired continuously from each animal during each dose day recording session. The QT interval was corrected for variations in HR using the Fridericia s QTc interval QTcF .

Data acquired following treatment with vehicle or compound III were extracted at 10 5 0 10 20 30 35 45 60 90 150 270 and 390 min relative to the start dose time. For all blood pressure and ECG parameters data following treatment with compound III were compared to the time matched vehicle dose data. Statistical comparisons were made using a one way ANOVA for repeated measures followed by the Dunnett s post hoc test when statistical significance was detected with the ANOVA. Changes were considered statistically significant when p

A complete visual scan of the ECG waveforms from the vehicle 11 mg kg dose and 15 mg kg dose of compound III was conducted. All waveforms were examined for gross changes in waveform morphology and arrhythmogenesis.

The mean concentration time data for the 11 mg kg dose of compound III demonstrated that exposure to the test article increased rapidly during the 30 min intravenous infusion period in all four male beagle dogs studied. Mean Cfor compound III was 6004 1132 ng mL with AUC 33907 3190 ng mL h. The mean Tvalue was 0.46 0.08 h which is consistent with the route and method of administration for the study. Compound III plasma levels gradually declined after reaching Cand the mean half life was 5.36 0.40 h. For the two 15 mg kg doses mean Cwas 7515 3307 and 6206 3144 ng mL and the AUCwas 43895 23125 and 36047 22104 ng mL h respectively for the four dogs studied.

ABP parameters systolic pressure SBP diastolic pressure DBP and mean arterial pressure MAP remained relatively unchanged during and up to 150 min after intravenous infusion of the vehicle and compound III at doses of 11 15 and 30 mg kg. There was a tendency for SBP DBP and MAP to be increased after treatment at the 11 and 15 mg kg doses when compared to the vehicle control at the 270 and 390 min time points. The increase in ABP parameters was not dose related. Only the increase in SBP for the 11 mg kg dose group at 390 min postdose was significantly p

Compound III at a dose of 11 mg kg had no effect on mean HR when compared to the time matched vehicle control dose. Significant p

The changes in blood pressure and HR relative to the vehicle control do not appear to be test article related since the effect is not dose dependent the time is not consistent with a Tof 0.5 hr and the blood pressure and HR values from 90 to 390 min are similar to corresponding pre dose baseline values for each respective dose level studied. The changes in blood pressure and HR observed most likely reflect daily variation from one study day to another.

The effects of intravenous administration of vehicle and compound III at dose levels of 11 and 15 mg kg on QTc in male beagle dogs are shown in .

No significant effects on the PR interval were detected during or after intravenous compound III administration at doses of 11 and 15 mg kg when compared to the vehicle dose. Administration of the high dose level 30 mg kg of compound III resulted in an increase in the PR interval relative to the vehicle control from 150 to 390 min. The increase in PR interval was statistically significant p

The RR interval remained relatively unchanged during the study period in the vehicle and compound III treatment groups. A significant p

There were no significant effects on the QT interval relative to the vehicle control during or after intravenous administration of compound III at doses of 11 15 or 30 mg kg. The QT interval was corrected for variations in the HR using the QTcF correction method. Compound III at doses of 11 and 15 mg kg had no significant effects on QTcF over the course of the study. There was a lengthening of the QTcF interval from 35 to 90 min postdose after treatment with 30 mg kg compound III when compared to the time matched vehicle control. There were no abnormalities in waveform morphology or ECG rhythm during or after administration of compound III at doses of 11 or 15 mg kg.

Similar experiments were performed with compound II . The effect of intravenous administration of vehicle and compound II at a dose level of 15 mg kg on QTc in male beagle dogs is shown in .

In one experiment hepatotoxicity was estimated by overnight incubation of compounds at 3 10 30 100 or 300 M with cultured rat or human hepG2 hepatocytes followed by staining of the cells with resazurin to measure viability or with Nile Red to measure steatosis. The minimal drug concentration at which changes in dye binding were observed was noted as the minimal effective concentration. The compound of formula VIII wherein Z 3 quinolyl affected metabolic stability and steatosis in human HepG2 hepatocytes at 30 M. No effects were observed with the compound of formula VIII wherein Z 6 quinoxalyl or compound III at 100 M.

In a second experiment the hepatotoxicity of compound III was estimated using cryopreserved human hepatocytes pooled from four donors measuring leakage of cellular lactate dehydrogenase LDH . Each donor was selected for the study based on the activity of cytochrome P450 phase I and uridine diphosphoglucuronosyl transferases phase II . Hepatocytes were initially prepared from human livers by collagenase perfusion and subsequently cryogenically frozen. Viable cryopreserved hepatocytes were enriched in accordance with BD Biosciences Discovery Labware SOP HP 10. Hepatocytes were rapidly thawed pooled and incubated in Williams E medium at a density of 2 10cells ml at 37 C. in an incubator for 30 min. After incubation the viable cells were separated with 24 Percoll gradient and resuspended in WME at a density of 1 10cells ml. Initial viability was determined by trypan blue exclusion. Hepatocytes were incubated in a 24 well plate and each well contained 0.25 10cells in 0.5 ml of WME medium. Three wells were used for determination of total LDH activity cells media and the background activity incubation media only at the 0 time point. Briefly a 100 l aliquot of cell suspensions from these wells was immediately taken and rapidly centrifuged at 14 000 rpm for 15 seconds. The supernatants were transferred to microcentrifuge tubes and stored at 4 C. for measurement of LDH activity present in medium at the 0 time point. Another 100 l aliquot of cell suspension from same wells was removed mixed with 100 l of 0.4 Triton and stored at 4 C. for measurement of total LDH activity.

Hepatocytes in other wells were incubated with test article at the concentrations of 200 67 22 7.4 2.5 and 0.82 M. Six concentrations of test article a single concentration of positive control tamoxifen and solvent vehicle controls were tested in triplicate. Hepatocytes were exposed to the test substance and the positive control for 4 hours. After incubation 100 l aliquots of cell suspensions were taken and rapidly centrifuged at 14 000 rpm for 15 seconds. The supernatants were transferred to microcentrifuge tubes and stored at 4 C. for measurement of LDH activity in incubation medium. The positive control used for hepatocyte toxicity was 100 M tamoxifen. The solvent for tamoxifen delivery was DMSO final concentration 0.1 .

LDH activity in both total medium cells and medium was determined by monitoring the enzymatic formation of NADH from NAD in the presence of L lactic acid 1 . Briefly post centrifugation supernatants were diluted 1 40 with phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 . A 100 l aliquot was mixed with 100 l LDH reagent containing 7.5 mM NAD 50 mM L lactic acid in 250 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 8.9 in a 96 well plate. The increase in fluorescence due to the formation of NADH were kinetically monitored at Ext. 360 nm Em. 460 nm using a Fluorescence plate reader. The percent LDH leakage from cells was calculated by comparing incubation medium values with total LDH activity see Equation below . The cell viability at each concentration of test articles was reported. LDH leakage LDH activity in medium sample total LDH activity 100 The data are summarized in Table 17. The LDH leakage from the hepatocytes was slightly increased by approximately 5 in vehicle control group after 240 min of incubation. Treatment of hepatocyte suspensions with positive control tamoxifen at 100 M caused 63 increase in LDH leakage. Incubation of the hepatocytes with compound III at 0.82 2.5. 7.4 22 67 and 200 M for 240 min did not increase LDH leakage as compared with that in solvent DMSO vehicle treated cells.

The pharmacokinetics of compounds of formula VIII and compounds of formula II and III were measured in the mouse. Compounds were administered either intravenously i.v. at 1 mg kg or per oral gavage p.o. at 10 mg kg. Plasma samples were taken and analyzed by LC MS MS. For lung tissue pharmacokinetics lungs were removed and homogenized followed by analyzis by LC MS MS. Results for p.o. administration are given in Table 18.

The penetration of compound III formulated in various vehicles into human skin was determined. Franz static diffusion cells 15 mm diameter orifice o ring joint were mounted on 9 cell manifolds and maintained at a constant temperature by use of re circulating water baths set at 32 C. These cells have an opening with a nominal area of 1.77 cmand a receptor compartment with a volume ranging between 12 to 14 ml. Each diffusion cell was assembled by placing a disk shaped section of excised human skin obtained from elective surgery over the orifice of the receptor bottom compartment. A Teflon O ring was placed on top of the skin before the donor cap was added top compartment . This diffusion area was then secured in place by a pinch clamp ensuring an adequate seal between the donor and receptor compartments. The joint between the donor and receptor compartments of each cell was wrapped with Parafilm American Can Company to prevent evaporation of the receptor phase. Each cell was then filled with the receptor phase consisting of phosphate buffered saline with 0.1 sodium azide and 4 bovine serum albumin w w w at 32 C. Any air bubbles present under the tissue were removed prior to dosing. The receptor phase was continuously stirred using a Teflon magnetic stir bar and an inoculating loop cut to 6.0 cm from the top of the loop. The systems were equilibrated with the receptor phase for 1 hour prior to formulation application.

Approximately 10 mg cmof each formulation was dosed onto the tissue surfaces of five cells. Each formulation was applied in an alternating fashion to diffusion cells in at least two separate Static Cell Systems. The sampling ports were sealed with Parafilm to prevent evaporation. Collection of nominally 1 mL receptor phase sample was preformed at four hours. The samples were removed through the sampling port using a syringe fitted with Teflon tubing on the needle and transferred into plastic scintillation vials. After the first collection 4 hours the receptor compartment was refilled with fresh receptor phase maintained at 32 C. The whole content of each cell was collected and weighed at 24 hours after dosing. Tissue samples at the end of the experiment were dissected into epidermis and dermis and extracted with acetonitrile prior to analysis. Samples were analyzed for drug content by LC MS MS.

In a first experiment compound III was dissolved at 0.5 w v in ethanol EtOH methylsulfoxide DMSO propylene glycol PG or dibutyl sebacate DBS or at 2.0 in dibutyl sebacate. The data are summarized in Table 19.

In a second experiment more complex ethanolic gel formulations were studied Table 20 . Each formulation comprised hydroxypropylcellulose HPC at 2 w w as a gelling agent.

Tissue levels of compound III following the 24 hour exposure were measured. Epidermal deposition ranged from 2.12 to 7.93 percent of the dose applied from formulations 18A and 18B respectively. Formulation 18C has the next highest epidermal level with 6.41 percent of the dose applied. Dermal deposition ranged from 0.0676 to 1.62 percent of the dose applied from formulations 18A and 18C respectively. Formulation 18B has the next highest dermal level with 1.45 percent of the dose applied.

Formulations 18B and 18C comprising dibutyl sebacate demonstrated the highest levels of skin deposition and penetration for compound III .

To create a plasmid for the expression of the truncated 6 deoxyerythronolide B synthase DEBS under the actinorhodin promoter actIp in a SCP2 vector the DEBS expression plasmid pKOS146 103A described in Desai et al. Combining classical genetic and process strategies for improved precursor directed production of 6 deoxyerythronolide B analogues 20 38 43 2004 incorporated herein by reference was cut with SpeI and HindIII to obtain a circa 34.1 kbp fragment and with HindIII and NdeI to generate a circa 3.7 kbp fragment. The plasmid pKOS214 119 described in Regentin et al. Precursor directed biosynthesis of novel triketide lactones 20 122 127 2004 incorporated herein by reference which contains DEBS module 2 with an N terminal DEBS module 5 linker was digested with NdeI and SpeI generating a circa 4.3 kbp fragment. These three fragments were ligated to give the expression plasmid pKOS279 7A. The plasmid pKOS146 145 was described in Hu et al. Enhanced heterologous polyketide production in by exploiting plasmid co integration 30 512 522 2003 incorporated herein by reference.

Plasmids pKOS146 145 and pKOS279 7A were introduced into K146 151B described in Desai et al. Combining classical genetic and process strategies for improved precursor directed production of 6 deoxyerythronolide B analogues 20 38 43 2004 incorporated herein by reference using protoplast transformation as described in Kieser et al. Crowes Norwich England 2000 incorporated herein by reference employing selection for apramycin and thiostrepton resistance to produce K460 2.

All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference if not otherwise specifically indicated.

