---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing location-based services to a mobile computing device having a dual processor architecture
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and techniques for providing location-based services (LBS) to a mobile computing device having a dual processor architecture are described. In one or more embodiments, the mobile computing device may comprise or implement hardware and/or software configured to enable LBS and data communications sessions using a single active data stack at any particular point in time. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09137629&OS=09137629&RS=09137629
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09137629
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060831
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. A mobile computing device also may provide position determination capabilities to allow a user to receive a variety of location based services LBS according to the current position of the mobile computing device.

To provide additional processing power for complex applications a mobile computing device may employ a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor. In order to accommodate the dual processor architecture conventional implementations for applications such as LBS applications must be modified. Consequently there may be a need for an apparatus and methods for providing LBS to a mobile computing device having a dual processor architecture.

Various embodiments are directed to systems and techniques for providing location based services LBS to a mobile computing device having a dual processor architecture. In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise or implement hardware and or software configured to enable LBS and data communications sessions using a single active data stack at any particular point in time.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems North American Digital Cellular NADC cellular radiotelephone systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA cellular radiotelephone systems Extended TDMA E TDMA cellular radiotelephone systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS cellular radiotelephone systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS cellular radiotelephone systems compliant with the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1 xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the dual processor architecture of the mobile computing device may comprise additional processors.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a microprocessor such as a complex instruction set computer CISC microprocessor a reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor and or a very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor a processor implementing a combination of instruction sets a controller a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user.

System programs assists in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be arranged to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

The transceiver module may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

The mobile computing device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between the mobile computing device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise position determination capabilities. The mobile computing device may employ one or more position determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to operate in one or more position determination modes including for example a standalone mode a mobile station MS assisted mode and or a MS based mode. In a standalone mode such as a standalone GPS mode the mobile computing device may be arranged to autonomously determine its position without network interaction or support. When operating in an MS assisted mode or an MS based mode however the mobile computing device may be arranged communicate over a radio access network e.g. UMTS radio access network with a position determination entity PDE such as a location proxy server LPS and or a mobile positioning center MPC .

In an MS assisted mode such as an MS assisted AGPS mode the PDE may be arranged to determine the position of the mobile computing device. In an MS based mode such as an MS based AGPS mode the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine its position with only limited periodic assistance from the PDE . In various implementations the mobile computing device and the PDE may be arranged to communicate according a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol such as the TIA EIA standard IS 801 message protocol for MS assisted and MS based sessions in a CDMA radiotelephone system.

When assisting the mobile computer device the PDE may handle various processing operations and also may provide information to aid position determination. Examples of assisting information may include satellite based measurements terrestrial based measurements and or system based measurements such as satellite almanac information GPS code phase measurements ionospheric data ephemeris data time correction information altitude estimates timing offsets forward reverse link calibration and so forth.

In various implementations the assisting information provided by the PDE may improve the speed of satellite acquisition and the probability of a position fix by concentrating the search for a GPS signal and or may improve the accuracy of position determination. Each position fix or series of position fixes may be available at the mobile computing device and or at the PDE depending on the position determination mode. In some cases data calls may be made and assisting information may be sent to the mobile computing device from the PDE for every position fix. In other cases data calls may be made and assistance information may be sent periodically and or as needed.

In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support position determination. For example the transceiver module and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support position determination.

The mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . The host processor and the radio processor may enable the mobile computing device to provide position determination capabilities to allow a user to receive a variety of location based services LBS according to the current position of the mobile computing device .

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS application . In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application arranged to communicate location requests and location responses. Examples of LBS include without limitation wireless emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

The LBS application may be arranged to send a location request in response to receiving input from the mobile computing device or from a source external to the mobile computing device . For example the user of the mobile computing device may interact with a data input device to command the LBS application to send a location request. The LBS application also may send a location request in response to receiving input from an external network element or computing device that is attempting to locate the user of the mobile computing device . In some cases the LBS application also may be arranged to automatically periodically and or autonomously send location requests.

As shown in the host processor also may comprise and or implement one or more other applications in addition to the LBS application . In general the other applications may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor that operates without regard to the location of the mobile computing device . The other applications may comprise for example one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail e mail IM SMS MMS a web browser application personal management applications e.g. PIM contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth.

Although the other applications may operate without regard to the location of the mobile computing device it can be appreciated that in various embodiments the LBS application may request and receive position information to enhance the functionality of one or more of the other applications . For example position information may be provided in conjunction with a messaging application to locate the sender or recipient of a message. Position information may be provided to a web browser application to generate directions to a location associated with a particular website. Positioning information may be provided to a personal management application to generate location based alerts and or directions to a meeting place. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The host processor may comprise or implement a data stack including a set of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer. Together with the application layer the data stack may comprise a software implementation of a computer networking protocol suite defining various protocols e.g. TCP IP PPP protocols that support data communications. In various embodiments upper layer programs may communicate using the data stack through a data socket interface such as a Microsoft Windows Sockets Winsock interface that enables upper layer programs to access network services using the data stack .

The host processor may comprise or implement an LBS API such as a GPS API coupled to the LBS application . In various embodiments the LBS API may be arranged to allow communication of location requests and location responses between the LBS application and one or more position determination programs implemented on the radio processor . In such embodiments the LBS API may comprise a remote API with respect to the radio processor which allows the LBS application running on the data stack of the host processor to access one or more position determination programs running on the radio processor .

The LBS API may comprise an interface to an LBS API handler e.g. GPS API handler implemented on the radio processor . The LBS API handler may be arranged to provide connectivity between the LBS API and one or more position determination programs implemented on the radio processor such as a position engine extension a position engine interface and a position engine for allowing the exchange of location requests and location responses. In various implementations the LBS API handler may be configured to forward location requests received from the LBS application through the LBS API to one or more of the position engine extension the position engine interface and the position engine .

The radio processor may comprise or implement a position engine extension such as a PDE e.g. LPS and or MPC extension. In one embodiment for example the position engine extension may be implemented as one or more BREW based LPS extensions such as QUALCOMM ILpsPosDet and or IGeoservice interfaces. The position engine extension may be arranged to receive location requests from the LBS API handler and may forward location responses to the LBS API handler for delivery to the LBS application through the LBS API .

The position engine extension may be arranged to provide client registration and provisioning of privacy settings. The position engine extension also may be arranged to communicate securely over a network with a PDE e.g. LPS or MPC arranged to provide authentication and authorization services and or a variety of geo services. For example the position engine extension may be arranged to communicate with a PDE configured to verify privacy for location requests allow authorized access to a location server and provide various location server services. The position engine extension also may be arranged to communicate with a PDE to request and receive geo service information. Examples of geo service information may include mapping information routing information geo coding and reverse geo coding information for addresses and coordinates POI information and so forth.

The radio processor may comprise or implement a position engine interface such as position engine API and or one or more position engine libraries. The position engine interface may comprise any suitable API and or libraries used to generate one or more position fixes using the position engine . In one embodiment for example the position engine interface may be implemented as a BREW based API such as a QUALCOMM IPosDet API.

The position engine interface may be arranged to invoke a position fix by configuring the position engine and requesting a position fix. For example the position engine interface may set configuration parameters that control the position determination process. Examples of configuration parameters may include without limitation position determination mode e.g. standalone MS assisted MS based actual or estimated number of position fixes e.g. single position fix series of position fixes request assisting information without a position fix time interval between position fixes Quality of Service QoS values optimization parameters e.g. optimized for speed accuracy or payload PDE address e.g. IP address and port number of LPS or MPC and so forth.

The position engine interface also may set request response parameters to request and return various types of position information. Examples of request response parameters may include current location latitude longitude altitude heading vector information such as horizontal and vertical velocity sector based position location position fix method level of accuracy time offset position uncertainty device orientation client initialization and registration and so forth.

The radio processor may comprise or implement a position engine such as GPS engine. In various embodiments the position engine may be arranged to provide position determination capabilities for the mobile computing device . In some embodiments the position engine may be implemented as software operating in conjunction with hardware e.g. GPS receiver hardware allowing the mobile computing device to receive and process GPS satellites signals for position determination. In one embodiment the position engine may be implemented as a QUALCOMM gpsOne engine.

In various implementations the position engine may employ one or more position determination techniques such as GPS CGI CGI TA EFLT TDOA AOA AFTL OTDOA EOTD AGPS GPS AGPS hybrid techniques and so forth. The position engine also may be arranged to operate in one or more position determination modes including a standalone mode an MS assisted mode and an MS based mode. The determined position information generated and or obtained by the position engine generally may comprise any type of information associated with the location of the mobile computing device . Examples of position information may include without limitation current location latitude longitude altitude heading information vector information such as horizontal and vertical velocity sector based position location position fix information position uncertainty device orientation and so forth.

In some implementations determined position information may be cached for a certain period of time for subsequent and or repeated use by the mobile computing device . The cached position information may be stored internally or externally to the host processor and or the radio processor on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In such implementations a check may be made whether previously determined cached position information is valid prior to performing additional position determination processing. If the previously determined cached position information is still valid for the mobile computing device the cached position information may be used by the position engine avoiding the need for additional position determination processing. If the previously determined cached position information is not valid for the mobile computing device the position engine may generate or obtain position information by performing one or more position determination techniques in one or more position determination modes.

As shown in the radio processor may comprise or implement a data stack including a set of lower layers including a transport layer e.g. TCP layer a network layer e.g. IP layer and a link layer e.g. PPP layer . In various embodiments upper layer programs such as one or more position determination programs may communicate using the data stack through a data socket interface such as a Microsoft Winsock interface that enables upper layer programs to access network services using the data stack .

Although some embodiments may be described with the data stack and the data stack implemented as a TCP IP PPP protocol data stacks by way of example it may be appreciated that the data stack and or the data stack may comprise or implement other suitable types of transport layers network layers and or link layers in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the host processor may comprise or implement a data stack and the radio processor may comprise or implement a data stack . In such embodiments the dual processor architecture may be limited such that only one of the data stack of the host processor and the data stack of the radio processor may be active at a particular point in time. Accordingly systems and techniques are needed for providing LBS to a mobile computing device having a dual processor architecture in which the data stack of the host processor and the data stack of the radio processor are not capable of simultaneous operation.

The data stack of the radio processor may be arranged to serve and or support one or more LBS communications sessions such as a GPS communications session e.g. IS 801 message session for the LBS application e.g. GPS application while the data stack of the host processor may be arranged to serve and or support communication sessions for the other applications such as messaging applications a web browser application and or any other client applications in accordance with the described embodiments. The LBS API e.g. GPS API implemented by the host processor may be configured to interface with the LBS API handler e.g. GPS API handler on the radio processor to enable access to various position determination programs which are served by and or communicate using the data stack .

The position engine extension and or the position engine may be arranged to communicate with a PDE e.g. LPS or MPC using the data stack of the radio processor . The position engine extension and or the position engine may communicate with the PDE according a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol such as the TIA EIA standard IS 801 message protocol for MS assisted and MS based sessions in a CDMA radiotelephone system. For example the position engine may operate in an MS assisted or MS based mode to generate or obtain position information for the mobile computing device by initiating a message session e.g. IS 801 message session with the PDE using the data stack communicating a position information download assist request to the PDE and receiving a position information download assist response from the PDE. The embodiments are not limited in its context.

In some implementations the position engine extension may enable the mobile computing device to obtain network assistance from a PDE for authenticating the mobile computing device and or the LBS application by initiating a message session e.g. IS 801 message session with the PDE using the data stack communicating an authentication download assist request to the PDE and receiving an authentication download assist response from the PDE. In some implementations the position engine extension may enable the mobile computing device to obtain network assistance from a PDE for receiving geo service information by initiating a message session e.g. IS 801 message session with the PDE using the data stack communicating a geo service download assist request to the PDE and receiving a geo service download assist response from the PDE.

In this embodiment the other applications may comprise for example a messaging application web browser application or other client application executed by the host processor that operates without regard to the location of the mobile computing device . The other applications may be arranged to initiate and perform one or more communications sessions such as a data communications session using the data stack . In various implementations the other applications may perform data communications sessions using the data stack in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

As shown in the radio processor may comprise or implement a data preemption module on top of the data stack that is coupled to the position engine extension and or the position engine . The data preemption module may enable LBS and data communications sessions using a single active data stack at any particular point in time. In one embodiment for example the data preemption module may be arranged to detect the invocation and or initiation of an LBS communications session using the data stack and to preempt the data stack and or any existing data communications sessions on the host processor .

In various implementations the LBS communications session may comprise a GPS communications session e.g. IS 801 message session invoked and or initiated by the position engine extension and or the position engine in response to a location request from the LBS application . For example the LBS API handler may receive a location request received from the LBS application through the LBS API and then may forward the location request to one or more of the position engine extension the position engine interface and or the position engine .

In response to detecting the invocation and or initiation of an LBS communications session the data preemption module may be arranged to preempt the data stack and or any existing communications sessions on the host processor . For example the data preemption module may instruct the host processor to terminate all current data communications sessions established using the data stack . The data preemption module also may instruct the host processor to prevent any new data communications sessions from being established using the data stack until the LBS communications session established using the data stack concludes and or is terminated. Accordingly after an LBS communications session e.g. GPS communications session is invoked and or initiated and until an established LBS session is terminated the data stack is and remains preempted. As such for the duration of the LBS communication session the host processor and the radio processor are configured to use only the active data stack on the radio processor . The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments the information and or network assistance received from a PDE during an LBS session may enable the position engine extension and or the position engine to generate a location response that fulfills a location request from the LBS application . The position engine extension and or the position engine may communicate the location response to the LBS API handler which in turn may forward the location response to the LBS application through the LBS API .

It can be appreciated that when preemption of the data stack occurs data communications sessions for one or more of the other applications running on the host processor may be lost. In addition new data communications sessions for the other applications will be prevented from opening until the LBS communications session established using the data stack concludes or terminates. As such preempting the data stack whenever an LBS communications session is invoked and or initiated using the data stack sometimes may result in unpredictable and unexpected experiences for the user of the mobile computing device .

As shown in an application e.g. LBS application invokes and communicates a location request through a host GPS client e.g. LBS API implemented by a host processor e.g. host processor to a radio GPS client e.g. LBS API handler implemented by a radio processor e.g. radio processor .

The radio GPS client forwards the location request to a position determination service module PDSM implemented on the radio processor. The PDSM may comprise for example one or more of a position engine extension e.g. position engine extension a position engine interface e.g. position engine interface and a position engine e.g. position engine . The PDSM may be arranged to generate or obtain position information by performing one or more position determination techniques in one or more position determination modes.

As shown in the PDSM communicates a preemption request to a data preemption module e.g. data preemption module implemented on the radio processor. In some implementations the PDSM may communicate the preemption request in response to detecting the invocation and or initiation of an LBS communications session.

The data preemption module sends a preempt request to a data stack e.g. data stack implemented on the host processor and receives a preempt response indicating that the data stack and or any existing communications sessions on the host processor have been preempted. In some implementations all current data communications sessions established using the data stack on the host processor are preempted and new data communications sessions are prevented from being established using the data stack until the LBS communications session concludes and or is terminated.

The data preemption module sends a preempt response to the PDSM indicating that the data stack has been preempted and an LBS communications session may be established. The PDSM communicates a download assist request such as an authentication download assist request a geo services download assist request and or a position information download assist request to a network entity such as PDE e.g. LPS or MPC configured to provide network assistance for authentication authorization geo services and or position determination. The PDSM then receives a download assist response from the network entity. In various embodiments the PDSM may communicate with the network entity using a data stack e.g. data stack implemented on the radio processor.

The PDSM communicates a location response to the radio GPS client. In response the radio GPS client communicates the location response to the host GPS client which in turn forwards the location response to the application. The PDSM subsequently may instruct the data preemption module to cancel the data preemption on the host data stack . In various embodiments the PDSM may be arranged to post process the download assist response data to determine a location response which fulfills the location request from the application. In an MS based mode the PDSM may be arranged to determine a location response with only limited periodic assistance from the network entity. In an MS assisted mode the network entity may determine and provide a location response to the PDSM through the exchange of assisting information.

Subsequently the PDSM may communicate a preempt cancel instruction to the data preemption module. In response the data preemption module may send a preempt cancel instruction to the host data stack for to canceling the data preemption.

The mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . The host processor and the radio processor may enable the mobile computing device to provide position determination capabilities to allow a user to receive a variety of location based services LBS according to the current position of the mobile computing device . The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS application and one or more other applications on top of a data stack including for example a TCP layer an IP layer and a PPP layer.

In this embodiment the other applications e.g. messaging application web browser application and or other client application executed by the host processor may be arranged to initiate and perform one or more communications sessions such as a data communications session using the data stack . In various implementations the other applications may perform data communications sessions using the data stack in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols.

In this embodiment LBS and data communications sessions may be established using the data stack of the host processor . In such an embodiment the LBS communications sessions may comprise remote LBS communications sessions with respect to the radio processor . In this embodiment a data stack implemented by the radio processor is not used for LBS or data communications sessions and may be omitted removed deactivated and or circumvented in the context of performing LBS or data communications sessions.

The host processor may comprise an LBS API e.g. GPS API arranged to allow communication of location requests and location responses between the LBS application and one or more position determination programs implemented on the radio processor . The LBS API may comprise an interface to an LBS API handler e.g. GPS API handler implemented on the radio processor . The LBS API handler may be arranged to provide connectivity between the LBS API and one or more position determination programs implemented on the radio processor such as a position engine extension a position engine interface and a position engine for allowing the exchange of location requests and location responses. In various implementations the LBS API handler may be configured to forward location requests received from the LBS application through the LBS API to one or more of the position engine extension the position engine interface and the position engine .

The position engine extension may comprise a PDE e.g. LPS and or MPC extension arranged to receive location requests from the LBS API handler and to communicate with a PDE e.g. LPS and or MPC . In various embodiments the position engine extension may be arranged to communicate with the PDE according to a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol for authenticating and authorizing the mobile computing device to receive network assisted position determination and or for requesting and receiving geo service information.

The position engine interface may comprise a position engine API and or one or more position engine libraries used to generate one or more position fixes using the position engine . In various embodiments the position engine interface may be arranged to invoke a position fix by configuring the position engine and requesting a position fix.

The position engine may comprise a GPS engine arranged to provide position determination capabilities for the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the position engine may employ one or more position determination techniques such as GPS CGI CGI TA EFLT TDOA AOA AFTL OTDOA EOTD AGPS GPS AGPS hybrid techniques and so forth. The position engine may be arranged to operate in one or more position determination modes including a standalone mode an MS assisted mode and an MS based mode.

In various embodiments the position engine may be arranged to employ one or more position determination techniques and to operate in a standalone mode. In a standalone mode e.g. standalone GPS mode the position engine may be arranged to autonomously determine position information for the mobile computing device without network support. In various implementations the position information obtained in the standalone mode e.g. standalone GPS mode may enable the position engine extension and or the position engine to generate a location response that fulfills a location request from the LBS application . The position engine extension and or the position engine may communicate the location response to the LBS API handler which in turn may forward the location response to the LBS application through the LBS API .

In standalone mode obtaining the first position fix from the position engine may take a long time e.g. several minutes for a cold start. In addition when operating in a standalone mode the position engine may have indoor issues due to the need to demodulate the ephemeris data. In various implementations the LBS application may be arranged to provide data to the position engine for hiding the first position fix to lessen the time required to perform position determination.

In various embodiments the position engine extension and or the position engine may be arranged to download and or request network assistance from a PDE e.g. LPS or MPC in response to a location request from the LBS application . In some implementations the position engine extension may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for authenticating the mobile computing device and or the LBS application . In some implementations the position engine extension may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for receiving one or more geo services. In some implementations the position engine may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for generating and or obtaining position information for the mobile computing device .

In this embodiment the LBS API handler may be arranged to receive one or more download assist requests from the position engine extension and or the position engine . In some implementations the position engine extension may communicate a download assist request such as an authentication download assist or a geo service download assist request to the LBS API handler . In some implementations such as when position information is not locally available or when not operating in a standalone mode the position engine may communicate a download assist request such as a position information download assist request to the LBS API handler .

In response to receiving the one or more download assist requests the LBS API handler may be arranged to route one or more request response messages to the LBS API on the host processor . In various embodiments the LBS API on the host processor may comprise an interface to a network entity such as a PDE for communicating request response messages using the data stack on the host processor . The PDE may comprise for example a location server such as an LPS or MPC configured to provide network assistance to the mobile computing device for authentication authorization geo services and or position determination. In various embodiments the position engine extension may comprise a PDE interface e.g. LPS interface or MPC interface for establishing an LBS communications session such as a GPS communications session e.g. IS 801 message session with the PDE using the data stack through the LBS API and the LBS API handler .

In various implementations the request response messages communicated to and from the PDE using the data stack may comprise raw request response data or parameters for requesting and receiving network assistance. In some implementations the request response messages sent to the PDE using the data stack may comprise for example authentication data or parameters e.g. MS identification LBS application identification user identification privacy settings etc. for requesting and receiving authentication and authorization for network assisted position determination. In some implementations the request response message sent to the PDE using the data stack may comprise for example geo service data or parameters e.g. mapping routing geo coding reverse geo coding POI etc. for requesting and receiving network assisted geo services. In some implementations the request response message sent to the PDE using the data stack may comprise for example position data or parameters e.g. current location latitude longitude altitude heading vector horizontal velocity vertical velocity sector based position location position fix accuracy level time offset position uncertainty device orientation client initialization and registration etc. for requesting and receiving network assisted position determination.

In some implementations the LBS API may be arranged to relay communications between the position engine and a PDE e.g. LPS or MPC using the data stack of the host processor according a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol such as the TIA EIA standard IS 801 message protocol for MS assisted and MS based sessions in a CDMA system. In such implementations the LBS API may enable the mobile computing device to initiate and establish an LBS message session e.g. IS 801 message session with the PDE using the data stack and obtain network assistance from the PDE for authentication authorization geo services and or position determination.

In various embodiments the information and or network assistance received during an LBS session with a PDE using the data stack is routed to LBS API handler on the radio processor and is communicated within a download assist response that fulfills a download assist request from the position engine extension and or the position engine . The download assist response may enable the position engine extension and or the position engine to generate a location response that fulfills a location request from the LBS application . For example the position engine extension and or the position engine may be arranged to post process the download assist response to generate a location response which fulfills a location request received from the LBS application . The position engine extension and or the position engine may communicate the location response to the LBS API handler which in turn may forward the location response to the LBS application through the LBS API .

As shown in an application e.g. LBS application invokes and communicates a location request through a host GPS client e.g. LBS API implemented by a host processor e.g. host processor to a radio GPS client e.g. LBS API handler implemented by a radio processor e.g. radio processor .

The radio GPS client forwards the location request to a PDSM implemented on the radio processor. The PDSM may comprise for example one or more of a position engine extension e.g. position engine extension a position engine interface e.g. position engine interface and a position engine e.g. position engine . The PDSM may be arranged to generate or obtain position information by performing one or more position determination techniques in one or more position determination modes.

As shown in the PDSM communicates a download assist request such as an authentication download assist request a geo services download assist request and or a position information download assist request to the radio GPS client. The radio GPS client in response sends raw request response data or parameters e.g. authentication data or parameters geo service data or parameters and or position data or parameters to the host GPS client. The host GPS client relays the raw request response data or parameters to a network entity such as PDE e.g. LPS or MPC configured to provide network assistance for authentication authorization geo services and or position determination. In various embodiments the host GPS client may relay the raw request response data to the network entity through a data stack e.g. data stack implemented on the host processor.

The host GPS client receives raw request response data from the network entity. In various embodiments the host GPS client may receive the raw request response data from the network entity through a data stack implemented on the host processor. The host GPS client communicates some or all of the raw request response data received from the network entity to the radio GPS client. The radio GPS client communicates a download assist response to the PDSM. In various implementations the download assist response may include some or all of the raw request response data received from the network entity.

The PDSM communicates a location response to the radio GPS client. In response the radio GPS client communicates the location response to the host GPS client which in turn forwards the location response to the application. In various embodiments the PDSM may be arranged to post process the download assist response data to determine a location response which fulfills the location request from the application. In an MS based mode the PDSM may be arranged to determine a location response with only limited periodic assistance from the network entity. In an MS assisted mode the network entity may determine and provide a location response to the PDSM through the exchange of assisting information.

The mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . The host processor and the radio processor may enable the mobile computing device to provide position determination capabilities to allow a user to receive a variety of location based services LBS according to the current position of the mobile computing device . The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS application and one or more other applications on top of a data stack including for example a TCP layer an IP layer and a PPP layer.

In this embodiment the other applications e.g. messaging application web browser application and or other client application executed by the host processor may be arranged to initiate and perform one or more communications sessions such as a data communications session using the data stack . In various implementations the other applications may perform data communications sessions using the data stack in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols.

In this embodiment LBS and data communications sessions may be established using the data stack of the host processor . In such an embodiment the LBS communications sessions may comprise remote LBS communications sessions with respect to the radio processor . In this embodiment a data stack implemented by the radio processor is not used for LBS or data communications sessions and may be omitted removed deactivated and or circumvented in the context of performing LBS communications sessions.

The host processor may comprise an LBS API e.g. GPS API arranged to allow communication of location requests and location responses between the LBS application and one or more position determination programs implemented on the radio processor . In various embodiments the LBS API may comprise an interface to an LBS API handler e.g. GPS API handler implemented on the radio processor . The LBS API handler may be arranged to provide connectivity between the LBS API and one or more position determination programs implemented on the radio processor such as a position engine extension a position engine interface and a position engine for allowing the exchange of location requests and location responses. In various implementations the LBS API handler may be configured to forward location requests received from the LBS application through the LBS API to one or more of the position engine extension the position engine interface and the position engine .

The position engine extension may comprise a PDE e.g. LPS and or MPC extension arranged to receive location requests from the LBS API handler and to communicate with a PDE e.g. LPS and or MPC . In various embodiments the position engine extension may be arranged to communicate with the PDE according to a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol for authenticating and authorizing the mobile computing device to receive network assisted position determination and or for requesting and receiving geo service information.

The position engine interface may comprise a position engine API and or one or more position engine libraries used to generate one or more position fixes using the position engine . In various embodiments the position engine interface may be arranged to invoke a position fix by configuring the position engine and requesting a position fix.

The position engine may comprise a GPS engine arranged to provide position determination capabilities for the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the position engine may employ one or more position determination techniques such as GPS CGI CGI TA EFLT TDOA AOA AFTL OTDOA EOTD AGPS GPS AGPS hybrid techniques and so forth. The position engine may be arranged to operate in one or more position determination modes including a standalone mode an MS assisted mode and an MS based mode.

The position engine extension and or the position engine may be arranged to download and or request network assistance from a PDE e.g. LPS or MPC in response to a location request from the LBS application . In some implementations the position engine extension may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for authenticating the mobile computing device and or the LBS application . In some implementations the position engine extension may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for receiving one or more geo services. In some implementations the position engine may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for generating and or obtaining position information for the mobile computing device .

As shown in the host processor may comprise or implement a remote data module . The radio processor may comprise or implement a remote data module that is coupled to the remote data module as well as the position engine extension and or the position engine .

The remote data module on the host processor and the remote data module on the radio processor may be configured to enable LBS and data communications sessions using a single active data stack at any particular point in time. For example the remote data module and the remote data module may be arranged to initiate and establish LBS communications sessions using the data stack on the host processor . In such an embodiment the LBS communications sessions may comprise remote LBS communications sessions with respect to the radio processor . In some implementations the remote data module may comprise a data socket interface e.g. Microsoft Windows Sockets Winsock interface configured or modified to use the data stack on the host processor for accessing network services.

The remote data module may be arranged to receive one or more download assist requests from the position engine extension and or the position engine . In some implementations the position engine extension may communicate a download assist request such as an authentication download assist or a geo service download assist request to the remote data module . In some implementations such as when position information is not locally available or when not operating in a standalone mode the position engine may communicate a download assist request such as a position information download assist request to the remote data module .

In response to receiving the one or more download assist requests the remote data module may be arranged to route one or more request response messages to the remote data module on the host processor . In various embodiments the remote data module on the host processor may comprise an interface to a network entity such as a PDE for communicating request response messages using the data stack on the host processor . The PDE may comprise for example a location server such as an LPS or MPC configured to provide network assistance to the mobile computing device for authentication authorization geo services and or position determination. In various embodiments the remote data module on the host processor may comprise a PDE interface e.g. LPS interface or MPC interface for relaying an LBS communications session such as a GPS communications session e.g. IS 801 message session between the position engine extension and or the position engine and the PDE using the data stack .

In various implementations the request response messages communicated to and from the PDE using the data stack may comprise raw request response data or parameters e.g. authentication parameters geo service parameters position parameters etc. for requesting and receiving network assistance. In some implementations the position engine extension may be arranged to communicate with a PDE e.g. LPS or MPC using the data stack of the host processor according a suitable MS PDE protocol through the remote data module and the remote data module . In such implementations the mobile computing device may initiate and establish an LBS message session e.g. IS 801 message session with the PDE using the data stack and obtain network assistance from the PDE for authentication authorization geo services and or position determination.

In various embodiments the information and or network assistance received during an LBS session with a PDE using the data stack is routed to the remote data module on the radio processor and is communicated within a download assist response that fulfills a download assist request from the position engine extension and or the position engine . The download assist response may enable the position engine extension and or the position engine to generate a location response that fulfills a location request from the LBS application . The position engine extension and or the position engine may communicate the location response to the LBS API handler which in turn may forward the location response to the LBS application through the LBS API .

As shown in an application e.g. LBS application invokes and communicates a location request through a host GPS client e.g. LBS API implemented by a host processor e.g. host processor to a radio GPS client e.g. LBS API handler implemented by a radio processor e.g. radio processor .

The radio GPS client forwards the location request to a PDSM implemented on the radio processor. The PDSM may comprise for example one or more of a position engine extension e.g. position engine extension a position engine interface e.g. position engine interface and a position engine e.g. position engine . The PDSM may be arranged to generate or obtain position information by performing one or more position determination techniques in one or more position determination modes.

As shown in the PDSM communicates a download assist request such as an authentication download assist request a geo services download assist request and or a position information download assist request to a remote data module e.g. remote data module implemented on the radio processor. The remote data module on the radio processor communicates a download assist request to a remote data module e.g. remote data module implemented on the host processor.

The remote data module on the host processor communicates a download assist request such as an authentication download assist request a geo services download assist request and or a position information download assist request to a network entity such as PDE e.g. LPS or MPC configured to provide network assistance for authentication authorization geo services and or position determination. The remote data module on the host processor then receives a download assist response from the network entity. In various embodiments the remote data module on the host processor may communicate with the network entity using a data stack e.g. data stack implemented on the host processor.

The remote data module on the host processor then communicates a download assist response to the remote data module on the radio processor which in turn communicates a download assist response to the PDSM. The PDSM communicates a location response to the radio GPS client. In response the radio GPS client communicates the location response to the host GPS client which in turn forwards the location response to the application. In various embodiments the PDSM may be arranged to post process the download assist response data to determine a location response which fulfills the location request from the application. In an MS based mode the PDSM may be arranged to determine a location response with only limited periodic assistance from the network entity. In an MS assisted mode the network entity may determine and provide a location response to the PDSM through the exchange of assisting information.

The mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS application and one or more other applications . The radio processor may comprise and or implement a data stack including for example a TCP layer an IP layer and a PPP layer.

The host processor and or the radio processor of the mobile computing device may be configured to enable LBS and data communications sessions using a single active data stack at any particular point in time. For example LBS and data communications sessions may be established using the data stack of the radio processor . In such an embodiment the data communications sessions may comprise remote data communications session with respect to the host processor . In this embodiment a data stack implemented by the host processor is not used for LBS or data communications sessions and may be omitted removed deactivated and or circumvented in the context of performing LBS or data communications sessions.

The host processor may comprise an LBS API e.g. GPS API arranged to allow communication of location requests and location responses between the LBS application and one or more position determination programs implemented on the radio processor . In various embodiments the LBS API may comprise an interface to an LBS API handler e.g. GPS API handler implemented on the radio processor . The LBS API handler may be arranged to provide connectivity between the LBS API and one or more position determination programs implemented on the radio processor such as a position engine extension a position engine interface and a position engine for allowing the exchange of location requests and location responses. In various implementations the LBS API handler may be configured to forward location requests received from the LBS application through the LBS API to one or more of the position engine extension the position engine interface and the position engine .

The position engine extension may comprise a PDE e.g. LPS and or MPC extension arranged to receive location requests from the LBS API handler and to communicate with a PDE e.g. LPS and or MPC . In various embodiments the position engine extension may be arranged to communicate with the PDE according to a suitable MS PDE protocol e.g. MS LPS or MS MPC protocol for authenticating and authorizing the mobile computing device to receive network assisted position determination and or for requesting and receiving geo service information.

The position engine interface may comprise a position engine API and or one or more position engine libraries used to generate one or more position fixes using the position engine . In various embodiments the position engine interface may be arranged to invoke a position fix by configuring the position engine and requesting a position fix.

The position engine may comprise a GPS engine arranged to provide position determination capabilities for the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the position engine may employ one or more position determination techniques such as GPS CGI CGI TA EFLT TDOA AOA AFTL OTDOA EOTD AGPS GPS AGPS hybrid techniques and so forth. The position engine may be arranged to operate in one or more position determination modes including a standalone mode an MS assisted mode and an MS based mode.

In various embodiments the position engine extension and or the position engine may be arranged to download and or request network assistance from a PDE e.g. LPS or MPC using the data stack in response to a location request from the LBS application . In some implementations the position engine extension may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for authenticating the mobile computing device and or the LBS application . In some implementations the position engine extension may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for receiving one or more geo services. In some implementations the position engine may download and or request network assistance from a PDE for generating and or obtaining position information for the mobile computing device .

In various embodiments the information and or network assistance received during an LBS session with a PDE using the data stack may enable the position engine extension and or the position engine to generate a location response that fulfills a location request from the LBS application . The position engine extension and or the position engine may communicate the location response to the LBS API handler which in turn may forward the location response to the LBS application through the LBS API .

As shown in the host processor may comprise or implement a data API . In various embodiments the data API may comprise an interface to a data API handler implemented on the radio processor for allowing the exchange of data requests and data responses.

In various embodiments the data API on the host processor and the data API handler on the radio processor may comprise be configured to enable data communications sessions other than LBS using a single active data stack at any particular point in time. For example the data API and the data API handler may be arranged to initiate and establish one or more data communications session using the data stack on the radio processor . In such an embodiment the data communications sessions may comprise remote data communications session with respect to the host processor . In some implementations the data API handler may comprise a data socket interface e.g. Microsoft Windows Sockets Winsock interface configured or modified to use the data stack on the radio processor for accessing network services.

In this embodiment the other applications e.g. messaging application web browser application and or other client application executed by the host processor may be arranged to initiate and perform one or more communications sessions such as a data communications session using the data stack . In various implementations the other applications may perform data communications sessions using the data stack through the data API on the host processor and the data API handler on the radio processor . In this embodiment the LBS application and the other applications may coexist without requiring data preemption.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules. It also is to be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

