---

title: Methods and systems for presenting information on mobile devices
abstract: Methods and systems for presenting media content (e.g., scrolling text) on a mobile device are provided. A broadcast may be received from a network via a wireless communication link, the broadcast may include media content (e.g., a text feed) and information (e.g., metadata) associated with characteristics of the media content. The media content may be extracted, and at least one characteristic associated with presenting the media content on the mobile device may be identified. The media content may be presented on the mobile device in accordance with the at least one identified characteristic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08019271&OS=08019271&RS=08019271
owner: Nextel Communications, Inc.
number: 08019271
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061229
---
The present invention relates generally to telecommunications and in particular to presenting information in a mobile environment.

In addition to robust and reliable voice services mobile device consumers often demand mobile access to real time multimedia and entertainment content such a news broadcasts weather forecasts sports clips stock quotes etc. To meet this increasing consumer demand various technologies have been developed to provide such content to mobile devices. For example DVB H Digital Video Broadcasting Handheld DMB Digital Multimedia Broadcasting and MediaFLO facilitate mobile reception of multimedia and entertainment content.

Mobile devices that receive real time multimedia content must be able to receive process and properly display such content to users. Existing technologies for receiving and displaying such content on mobile devices however are deficient in several aspects. In particular existing technologies are deficient in their ability to properly display scrolling text during a real time video broadcast such as the ticker or text crawl accompanying CNN s Headline News.

Displaying such scrolling text on mobile devices usually involves scrolling the text during a video presentation. While adequate for normal television viewing on relatively large screens problems with readability occur when those or similar videos are presented on smaller mobile devices. The low frame rate of scrolling text presentations exacerbate the problem often making the text appear erratic and lowering the overall quality of the viewing experience. illustrate typical mobile video displays with scrolling text. illustrates a screen shot of a typical QCIF Quarter Common Intermediate Format mobile video display with scrolling text . illustrates a screen shot representative of a typical QVGA Quarter VGA mobile video display with scrolling text . illustrates a screen shot of QCIF video enlarged to QVGA which is typical of viewing mobile video in a full screen mode. As illustrated there are readability problems even when scrolling text is enlarged to QVGA.

Some attempts have been made to improve readability of text on mobile device by increasing the text font. These attempts however are usually restricted to static text feed with a video signal. In addition these attempts are typically limited to pre recorded video and not real time broadcasts.

Systems apparatus methods and computer readable media consistent with the present invention may obviate one or more of the above and or other issues. In one example systems apparatus methods and computer readable media are provided for displaying scrolling text on a mobile device in a manner that is easily perceived by a user.

Consistent with the present invention a method for presenting media content on a mobile device is provided. The method may comprise receiving a broadcast from a network via a wireless communication link the broadcast including media content and metadata associated with characteristics of the media content extracting the media content from the broadcast identifying from the metadata at least one characteristic associated with presenting the media content on the mobile device and presenting the media content on the mobile device in accordance with the at least one identified characteristic.

Consistent with the present invention a method for broadcasting information for presentation on a mobile device is provided. The method may comprise receiving program content and supplemental media content from at least one content provider generating metadata corresponding to the received supplemental media content wherein the metadata includes information associated with presenting the supplemental content to a user and transmitting the received program content the supplemental media content and the metadata over a wireless network for reception by the mobile device wherein the supplemental media content and the metadata are transmitted independent of the program content. In one implementation an aggregator may receive the program content and supplemental content generate metadata and then broadcast the information for reception by a mobile device.

Consistent with the present invention a portable communication device is provided. The device may comprise a receiver module configured to receive a broadcast from a wireless network the broadcast including markup language documents representing a media content feed a processing module configured to extract media content and interpret the markup language documents and a presentation module configured to present the extracted media content in accordance with the interpreted markup language documents.

The foregoing background and summary are not intended to be comprehensive but instead serve to help artisans of ordinary skill understand implementations consistent with the present invention set forth in the appended claims. The foregoing background and summary are not intended to provide any independent limitations on the claimed invention or equivalents thereof.

The following description refers to the accompanying drawings in which in the absence of a contrary representation the same numbers in different drawings represent similar elements. The implementations set forth in the following description do not represent all implementations consistent with the claimed invention. Other implementations may be used and structural and procedural changes may be made without departing from the scope of present invention.

An eXtensible Markup Language XML or other markup language format may be used for controlling the display of text feeds on mobile receiver . Logic and intelligence may provided e.g. in content providers and or equipment for generating XML documents that include text feeds and also information such as metadata associated with characteristics of the text feeds. The characteristics may include for example channel associations expiration dates display times etc. This information may be used by mobile receiver to display text feeds . Mobile receiver may receive XML documents from mobile broadcast equipment interpret and process the received documents and display the text contained in the files in accordance with the characteristics included in the interpreted documents.

For purposes of readability mobile receiver may display text feeds in a non scrolling or non continuous manner. For example receiver may display text in discrete static chunks each of which may be displayed for a pre determined amount of time e.g. 10 seconds . Mobile receiver may also provide various user controllable display features. For example mobile receiver may allow a user to configure the appearance e.g. size font contrast etc. of displayed text navigate through displayed text and activate and de activate text feeds. It may also allow users to overlay text feeds from one channel onto another channel. For example a user could view a text feed from one channel e.g. stock quotes while viewing video from another channel e.g. a soccer game . Mobile receiver may also search various text feeds for user specified keywords and automatically tune to those channels in which the keywords are found.

The foregoing description of is intended to introduce and provide initial clarity for an exemplary implementation of the present invention. Further details of such an implementation as well as additional aspects and implementations of the present invention will be described below in connection with .

Content providers which may be similar to content providers in may include any entities configured to transmit or otherwise provide program content and or supplemental media content to distribution infrastructure . In one configuration a content provider may own and or aggregate program content and or supplemental media content . Content providers may include various systems networks and facilities such as television service providers e.g. BBC MTV CNN etc. media studios or stations etc. Mobile environment may include any number of content providers which may be individually configured and geographically dispersed.

The term program content refers to any audio and or video information e.g. informative or for entertainment provided by content providers for reception by users of access terminal . Program content may include various television programs such as CNN Headline News. Referring back to program content may include one or more video feeds .

The term supplemental media content or simply media content refers to one or more media objects generated for display on access terminal for example concurrently with a particular program content . Supplemental media content may include for example stock ticker and price information advertisements news information e.g. the text crawl accompanying CNN s Headline News data associated with closed captioning etc. Supplemental media content is not limited to text and may include various audio and or video objects. Supplemental media content may also include one or more interactive elements. For example supplemental media content may include program code and or one or more http hyperlinks that launch a web browser on access terminal . Referring again to supplement media content may include one or more text feeds .

Supplemental media content may be associated with and or supplement program content . For example a text feed containing stock tickers and prices could be media content that supplements an audio video feed containing a television news program which would be program content. As another example the text crawl accompanying CNN s Headline News could be media content that supplements a audio video feed containing CNN s Headline News which would be program content. In yet another example data found in closed captioning may be media content that supplements a television program which would be program content.

In one configuration content providers may be configured to generate and or provide accompanying information associated with supplemental media content along with the supplemental media content . In other configurations as discussed further below distribution infrastructure instead of or in conjunction with content providers may generate the accompanying information.

The accompanying information may include information such as metadata associated with characteristics of supplemental media content and or program content . These characteristics may include any information associated with supplemental media content that can be used by distribution infrastructure and or mobile access terminal to handle route and or display supplemental media content . For example characteristics may include associations between supplemental media content and related channels associations between supplemental media content and related program content expiration dates for supplemental media content display times for content etc. The characteristics may also indicate a particular display type or feature to employ when displaying the supplemental media content. The characteristics may serve to indicate the manner in which program content and or supplemental media content should be displayed by access terminal .

In addition to information associated with characteristics of supplemental media content the accompanying information associated with supplemental media content may optionally include other information which could be associated with other data and or systems. For example the accompanying information may include any information that can be used to handle route and or display supplemental media content program content and or other information. The accompanying information could also include one or more interactive elements such as program code and or http hyperlinks which may trigger some action on access terminal such as launching a web browser.

Additionally or alternatively the accompanying information may include discovery information associated with supplemental media content . This discovery information may include any information obtained or discovered using the supplemental media content. For example the discovery information may include search results obtained using supplemental media content . Additional details of such discovery information are discussed below in connection with distribution infrastructure .

In one example XML or other markup language documents may be used to communicate the accompanying information such as the information associated with supplemental media content characteristics. For example one or more content providers or distribution infrastructure may generate XML or other markup language documents. These documents may contain supplemental media content as well as metadata reflecting characteristics of the media content and any other accompanying information or elements. Mobile access terminal may receive and interpret these documents to properly display received supplemental media content .

Content providers may provide program content and or supplemental media content or XML files to infrastructure via various communication links not shown such as conventional telecommunication links known in the art. Content providers may include various codecs e.g. MPEG AAC Vorbis WMA WMV SMV etc. and or endecs ADCs DACs stereo generators etc. and may provide information to distribution infrastructure in various formats. In one example program content and supplemental media content may be provided in a digital format such as an MPEG format.

In one configuration content providers may provide data to distribution infrastructure in various communication channels and or may utilize IP datacasting technologies. As an example content providers may provide program content in a first channel and supplemental media content or XML files in a second channel each channel being independent of the other and both channels being within an allocated spectrum. Additionally one or more content providers may include various software and or hardware to identify and aggregate program content and supplemental media content for various channels and or sources and provide this data to distribution infrastructure .

Distribution infrastructure may include various components for receiving video and text feeds from content providers and distributing this and other data to access terminal . With reference to various functionality of mobile broadcast equipment may be embodied by distribution infrastructure . As illustrated in distribution infrastructure may include communication facilities a processing module and a distribution network .

Communication facilities may include various components for receiving program content and supplemental media content from content providers and distributing data to access terminal . Communication facilities may include one or more components known in the art for performing encoding compression modulation error correction tuning scanning transmission reception etc. Communication facilities may also include suitable components e.g. encoders transmitters modulators mixers microprocessors etc. for merging program content and supplemental media content into a single RF broadcast for receipt by access terminal .

In one embodiment communication facilities may facilitate IP datacasting and include one or more datacasting and file transport components such as a data carousel and various IP modules. Communication facilities may also include one or more components associated with DVB H MediaFLO WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access and or other content delivery technologies and standards. For example communication facilities may include one or more modulators or other suitable devices for modulating a transport stream e.g. an MPEG 2 transport stream onto a DVB H compliant COFDM Coded Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing or other suitable spectrum. Communication facilities may include suitable components for receiving the transport stream as input from one or more content providers and or one or more other components in distribution infrastructure such as processing module .

Processing module may include various hardware software and or firmware for processing program content and supplemental media content . Processing module may determine associations and relationships between program content and supplemental media content . In certain configurations processing module instead of or in conjunction with content providers may serve as an aggregator for program content and or supplemental content for various channels. Additionally processing module in conjunction with or independently of content providers may determine and or generate accompanying information for program content and or supplemental media content . Such characteristics as noted above may indicate the manner in which program content and or supplemental media content should be displayed by access terminal . As noted above these characteristics may include channel associations expiration dates display times etc. for supplemental media content . Processing module may also determine and or generate any interactive elements and any other accompanying information.

As noted above the accompanying information associated with supplemental media content may include discovery information such as search results. Processing module may include and or leverage one or more components to generate or obtain this discovery information. For example processing module may use text to speech or other suitable modules to manipulate interpret and or analyze incoming supplemental media content received from content providers . In one configuration processing module may obtain keywords from incoming supplemental media content and use these keywords to obtain search results such as Internet and or database search results. In such a configuration processing module may include and or leverage one or more search engines or other suitable logic. Processing module may organize the search results and provide the search results as accompanying information.

In one configuration processing module may generate in conjunction with or independently of content providers XML or other markup language files for receipt by access terminal . The generated XML files may contain supplemental media content as well as metadata associated with characteristics channel associations expiration dates display times etc. of the supplemental media content. The XML files may also include any other optional accompanying information such as interactive elements e.g. hyperlinks discovery information Internet search results etc. Such information could be part of the supplemental media content provided by content providers or alternatively could be added by processing module .

Although depicted as separate from communication facilities processing module may interact with or even be embedded in components of communication facilities or vice versa. In operation processing module may interact with content providers and communication facilities to transmit information to access terminal over distribution network .

Distribution network may include any suitable structure for transmitting data from distribution infrastructure to access terminal . In one configuration distribution network may facilitate communication in accordance with DVB H MediaFLO WiMAX and or other content delivery technologies and standards. Distribution network may include a unicast multicast or broadcasting network. Distribution network may include a broadband digital network. Distribution network may employ communication protocols such as User Datagram Protocol UDP Transmission Control and Internet Protocol TCP IP Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM SONET Ethernet DVB H DVB T or any other compilation of procedures for controlling communications among network locations. Further in certain embodiments distribution network may include optical fiber Fibre Channel SCSI and or iSCSI technology and devices.

Access terminal may include any system device or apparatus suitable for remotely accessing elements of mobile environment and for sending and receiving information to from those elements. Access terminal may include a mobile computing and or communication device e.g. a cellular phone a laptop a PDA a Blackberry an Ergo Audrey etc. . Alternatively access terminal may include a general purpose computer a server a personal computer e.g. a desktop a workstation or any other hardware based processing systems known in the art. In another example access terminal may include a cable television set top box or other similar device. Mobile environment may include any number of geographically dispersed access terminals each similar or different in structure and capability.

In certain configurations distribution infrastructure may provide one way data distribution to access terminal . That is distribution infrastructure may provide information to access terminal but may not be operable to receive return communications from access terminal . In such configurations mobile environment may optionally include communications network .

Communications network may serve as a mobile network e.g. a radio or cellular network and allow access terminal to communicate with distribution infrastructure and or other entities such as third party entities. In one configuration communications network may include a wireless broadband network. Communications network may include various elements known in the art such as cell sites base stations transmitters receivers repeaters etc. It may also employ various technologies and protocols such as FDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access CDMA Code Division Multiple Access e.g. 1xRTT 1xEV DO W CDMA continuous phase frequency shift keying such as Gaussian minimum shift keying GMSK various G mobile technologies such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS etc.

Mobile network layer may include suitable components for allowing access terminal to interact with communications network . Mobile network layer may include various RF components for receiving information from and sending information to network . It may include various known network communication and processing components such as an antenna a tuner a transceiver etc. Mobile network layer may also include one or more network cards and or data and communication ports.

Distribution network layer may include suitable components for allowing access terminal to receive communications from distribution infrastructure . In certain configurations distribution network layer may allow access terminal to receive digital video broadcasts and or IP datacasting broadcasts. Distribution network layer may include various network communication and processing components such as an antenna a tuner a receiver e.g. a DVB receiver a demodulator a decapsulator etc. In operation distribution network layer may tune to channels and receive information from distribution infrastructure . Distribution network layer may process received digital transport streams e.g. demodulation buffering decoding error correction de encapsulation etc. and pass IP packets to an IP stack in an operating system e.g. in processing layer for use by applications.

Interface layer may include various hardware software and or firmware components for facilitating interaction between access terminal and a user which could include an individual or another system. Interface layer may provide one or more Graphical User Interfaces and provide a front end or a communications portal through which user can interact with functions of access terminal . Interface layer may include and or control various input devices such as a keyboard a mouse a pointing device a touch screen etc. It may also include and or control various output devices such as a visual display device and an audio display device. Interface layer may further include and or control audio or video capture devices as well as one or more data reading devices and or input output ports.

Processing layer may receive information from send information to and or route information among elements of access terminal such as mobile network layer distribution network layer and interface layer . Processing layer may also control access terminal elements and it may process and control the display of information received from such access terminal elements.

Processing layer may include one or more hardware software and or firmware components. In one implementation processing layer may include one or more memory devices not shown . Such memory devices may store program code e.g. XML HTML Java C C Visual Basic etc. for performing all or some of the functionality discussed below associated with processing layer . The memory devices may store program code for various applications an operating system e.g. Symbian OS Windows Mobile etc. an application programming interface application routines and or other executable instructions. The memory devices may also store program code and information for various communications e.g. TCP IP communications kernel and device drivers and configuration information.

Processing layer may also include one or more processing devices not shown . Such processing devices may route information and execute instructions included program code stored in memory. The processing devices may be implemented using one or more general purpose and or special purpose processors.

Processing layer may interact with distribution network layer to receive program content and supplemental media content . Processing layer may include various mobile broadcasting e.g. DVB DMB MediaFLO WiMAX etc. and IP datacasting components which may interact with distribution network layer . For example processing layer may include components for performing decoding and time slicing operations. Processing layer may also include one or more IP modules known in the art which may perform for example handshaking de encapsulation delivery sequencing etc. Such IP modules may interact with corresponding modules in distribution network layer which may be configured for transmitting IP packets.

Processing layer may be configured to process and control the display of supplemental media content and or program content which may be received from distribution network layer . Processing layer may include one or more codecs and or endecs for processing received content such as MPEG codecs for processing digital video and or audio. Processing layer may also include various logic and intelligence for identifying and interpreting characteristics e.g. channel associations expiration dates etc. of received supplemental media content as well as any interactive elements discovery information or other accompanying information. For example processing layer may include one or more software modules for receiving and interpreting XML or other markup language documents from distribution network layer . These documents may include such characteristics for supplemental media content . Processing layer may control the display of supplemental media content in accordance with interpreted characteristics and any other information or elements .

Processing layer may control the display of supplemental media content such that it is displayed in a manner that is easily perceived by user . As an example processing layer may control the display of scrolling text such that it is displayed in discrete static chunks. Each chunk may include a specific number of lines of text e.g. two lines and may be displayed for a pre determined amount of time e.g. ten seconds . Processing layer may perform various filtering expansion and condensing of text and other media content as appropriate for the particular display used.

Processing layer may also include one or more text to speech modules and one or more voice recognition and or synthesis modules which may be multi lingual. Such modules may convert textual supplemental media content to audible voice signals and present the signals to user via interface layer .

The particular display types and features used could be indicated and triggered by various characteristics interactive elements or other information accompanying supplemental media content for example in received XML documents. Alternatively the particular display types and features may be determined by processing layer itself or by processing layer in conjunction with other components and information such as interface layer and received user commands.

Processing layer may also control the display of supplemental media content so as to provide various user controllable display features. Processing layer may initially activate the display of supplemental media content using default settings and display the content with its associated program content if any . Processing layer may allow user to customize and configure the presentation of displayed supplemental media content for example by specifying a text size a font style a contrast ratio a language an audio signal volume an audio signal tone e.g. equalizer settings male or female etc. an audio signal speed etc. It may also allow user to navigate through displayed supplemental media content and activate and de activate i.e. turn on and off such content. Processing layer may also allow user to re perceive e.g. re read or re play presented supplemental media content and or to control the presentation of content over a predetermined period or a specific segment of programming. For example user can read or listen to at one time all the headlines from a news broadcast which have been fed over the past hour.

Processing layer may also allow user to overlay supplemental media content from one channel onto another channel. For example user could overlay supplemental media content e.g. stock prices from a first channel onto a program content e.g. a soccer game from a second channel different than the first channel. In addition processing layer may include one or more search engines for searching various streams channels of supplemental media content available from distribution infrastructure . For example processing layer may search available text feeds for user specified keywords and cause distribution network layer to tune to those channels in which the keywords are found. In one configuration to perform searching processing layer may store or maintain a log of portions of received supplemental media content from a predetermined number of channels in one or more internal or external databases not shown . For example processing layer may store content received from the last 10 channels. Processing layer may then search this stored content for keywords. If the keyword is found in the stored content processing later may control distribution network layer to tune to the channel associated with the content having the match.

For purposes of explanation only certain aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to the elements and components illustrated in . The illustrated elements and their configurations are exemplary only. Other variations in the number and arrangement of components are possible consistent with the present invention. Further depending on the implementation certain illustrated elements may be absent and or additional components not illustrated may be present. In addition some or all of the functionality of the illustrated components may overlap and or exist in a fewer or greater number of components than what is illustrated.

Broadcasting process may include receiving program content . This may involve receiving program content from one or more content providers which may generate and or aggregate program content for various channels. Distribution infrastructure for example may receive program content from one or more content providers . Program content may be received over various communication links and in various formats. For example program content may be received wirelessly and in an analog or digital format. Receiving program content may include receiving one or more video feeds such as video feeds .

Broadcasting process may also include receiving supplemental media content . This may include for example receiving supplemental media content from one or more content providers . Distribution infrastructure for example may receive supplemental media content from one or more content providers . As with program content content providers may generate and or aggregate supplemental media content for various channels and transmit the content for example to distribution infrastructure . Receiving supplemental media content may include receiving one or more text feeds e.g. text feeds which may be associated with the received program content such as a corresponding video feed e.g. video feeds .

Receiving supplemental media content may occur independently of receiving program content . That is supplemental media content may be received independent of its associated program content. Content providers for example may transmit to distribution infrastructure supplemental media content independently of associated program content. This may be accomplished using IP data delivery techniques e.g. datacasting known in the art.

Once the supplemental media content is received accompanying information associated with the supplemental media content may be generated . This may involve generating information e.g. metadata associated with one or more characteristics of the supplemental media content such as channel associations expiration dates associations with program content etc. This generating may also involve generating interactive elements discovery information and or any other accompanying information.

In one example distribution infrastructure may generate the accompanying information after receiving the supplemental media content. Alternatively however the accompanying information could be transmitted with the supplemental media content from content providers . In one embodiment generating accompanying information associated with supplemental media content may comprise establishing an XML or other markup language format and generating markup language documents in accordance with the established format. These documents may include the supplemental media content itself along with the accompanying information. The generating stage may comprise generating a single document including the supplemental media content and the accompanying information. Alternatively the generating stage may comprise segmenting the supplemental media content and generating a plurality of documents that collectively carry all or a portion of the supplemental media content and the accompanying information.

After the accompanying information is generated at least one of the program content the supplemental media content and the generated accompanying information may be transmitted over a network for reception by a user device such as access terminal . This transmitting stage may involve transmitting program content supplemental media content and accompanying information as digital data over distribution network . It may also involve combining or modulating the program content the supplemental media content and the accompanying information for transmission over an appropriate network. Distribution infrastructure may perform such operations.

The transmitting stage may include transmitting to a user device such as access terminal supplemental media content and accompanying information e.g. in XML documents independently of program content. That is while supplemental media content may be associated with program content e.g. the text crawl accompanying CNN s Headline News the supplemental media content text crawl and the characteristics information and any other accompanying information may be transmitted independently of the associated program content CNN s Headline News program . This may be accomplished using video broadcasting e.g. DVB H or MediaFLO and IP datacasting technologies where the supplemental media content and accompanying information are transmitted as ancillary IP packets independent of the associated program content.

Process may begin when a broadcast is received from a network . Access terminal for example may receive a broadcast from distribution network . The broadcast may be received via a wireless communication link and it may include media content e.g. supplemental media content and accompanying information associated with the media content such as metadata associated with characteristics of the media content. In certain embodiments receiving a broadcast may involve identifying and or scanning one or more frequency ranges 470 890 MHz and or 1670 1675 MHz and receiving information from one or more channels sequentially or simultaneously.

After the broadcast is received supplemental media content may be extracted from the broadcast . For example access terminal may extract supplemental media content from a received broadcast from distribution network . The extracting may include various decoding de encapsulation filtering and routing operations known in the art which may be performed by access terminal .

Process may also include processing the extracted supplemental media content and the accompanying information associated with the supplemental media content . The accompanying information may be included in the received broadcast and may be extracted before after or concurrently with the media content. The processing stage may involve identifying at least one characteristic associated with presenting the media content on a mobile device such as access terminal . The at least one characteristic may be identified for example by processing an XML or other markup language document containing the media content and its associated accompanying information. The processing stage may further involve processing or interpreting the accompanying information such as the identified characteristics information. This interpreting may include interpreting XML or other markups contained in received data files in accordance with a predetermined formatting markup scheme.

Once the media content and accompanying information are processed the media content may be presented on a mobile device in accordance with the processed accompanying information. For example supplemental media content may be presented on access terminal in accordance with interpreted XML files. Presenting may include presenting visual information audible information and or any other type mode of information that can be perceived by a user which could be an individual or an automated system.

As discussed above in connection with media content may be presented such that it is displayed in a manner that is easily perceived by a user. For example scrolling text may be presented in discrete static chunks or segments each segment including a specific number lines of text and being displayed for a pre determined amount of time. Scrolling text could also be converted to audible voice signals which may be presented to a user for example in speech segments.

The presenting stage may also involve receiving one or more user commands associated with one or more user controllable display features. Access terminal for example may receive such user commands. The user commands may specify various display preferences such as a text size a font style a contrast ratio a language an audio signal volume an audio signal tone an audio signal speed etc. The user commands may also include activation commands which activate and de activate the content presentation. The user commands may further include navigation commands for moving through or re presenting the media content. For example a user can issue a command to present previously presented content or a command to present at one time all content associated with a particular program and or over a specific period of time e.g. the last two hours . Additionally the received user commands may include commands to overlay supplemental media content from one channel onto another channel to search available media content feeds for user specified keywords and or to perform various other available functions.

In one embodiment presenting the media content may include presenting certain accompanying information associated with the media content. For example presenting the media content could include presenting one or more search results obtained e.g. by distribution infrastructure received with the media content. The presenting stage may further involve receiving one or more user commands associated with e.g. responsive to such displayed accompanying information.

The foregoing description is not intended to be limiting. The foregoing description does not represent a comprehensive list of all possible implementations consistent with the present invention or of all possible variations of the implementations described. Those skilled in the art will understand how to implement the invention in the appended claims in many other ways using equivalents and alternatives that do not depart from the scope of the following claims.

