---

title: Hair follicle bulb as a biodosimeter
abstract: The various embodiments provide method of using hair follicle bulbs as biodosimeters for the detection of chemical exposure. The methods described herein utilize intact, plucked hair follicle bulbs and can be used to monitor real-time or near real-time changes in the levels of specific follicular bulb biomarkers to determine exposure to toxicants. By utilizing the living, responsive cells in the plucked hair follicle bulb in an immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis, the various embodiments mitigate the risks of false positives associated with segmental hair analysis and avoid the more invasive collection required for serum and urinalysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07629129&OS=07629129&RS=07629129
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07629129
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060426
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 675 436 entitled Hair Follicle as a Biodosimeter for Low Level Exposure to OP Compounds by Sekowski et al. and filed on Apr. 26 2005 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 740 294 entitled Hair Follicle as a Biodosimeter for Exposure to Nitroaromatic and Cyclonitramine Explosive Compounds by Sekowski et al. and filed on Nov. 15 2005 which are commonly assigned and incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to immunohistochemistry and in particular the present invention relates to the use of a hair follicle bulb as a biodosimeter for chemical exposure.

The skin covering the human body is rich in hair and hair follicles with over 90 of its surface supporting some type of hair. Biologically defined hair is the epidermal tissue that is derived from the involutions called follicles located in the skin. The bulb region of the hair follicle contains the metabolically active cells of the hair which derive nutrients from the circulating blood. As such hair follicle bulb cells are responsive in real time or near real time to toxic insults in much the same way as skin cells.

Chemicals or heavy metals present in the body are brought into contact with the hair follicle by the circulating blood. There they may enter the follicle and may potentially be incorporated into the hair shaft by the proliferating matrix cells found in the hair bulb. The ability to be incorporated into the hair shaft has led to the possibility of detecting exposure to chemicals and heavy metals via the hair shaft. Termed segmental hair analysis this has become a popular method to determine exposure to drugs of abuse e.g. cocaine amphetamine methamphetamine heroin marijuana and steroids therapeutic drugs e.g. ephedrine benzodiazepines and barbiturates and inorganic heavy metals e.g. arsenic lead and mercury .

Recent reports suggest that long term exposure to pesticides e.g. carbamate organochlorine and organophosphate OP can also be detected using segmental hair analysis. Others have demonstrated that methomyl a carbamate pesticide could be detected in the rabbit hair shaft following a 4 month daily methomyl exposure.

To carry out segmental hair analysis scalp hair is cut into 1 2 and 3 cm segments which approximately corresponds to 1 2 and 3 month s growth. If scalp hair is not available other sources of hair can be used for analysis. Segmental analysis can be accomplished with as little as one hair or up to 200 mg of hair may be used to allow confirmation testing. The segments are typically washed to remove external contaminants and the chemicals in the hair are extracted by alkaline digestion enzymatic treatment or acid extraction. Several analytical methods are available to determine the concentration if any of a particular substance in the hair. Immunoassay High Performance Liquid Chromatography HPLC Capillary Electrophoresis CE Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry GC MS tandem mass spectrometry MS MS and Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LC MS can be used for analysis. Of these the most superior in sensitivity selectivity and specificity is GC MS separation and selective ion monitoring SIM quantitation. However tandem MS can be used if the compound of interest is unstable in gas chromatograph separation analysis.

The main advantage of segmental hair analysis is that successful analysis is possible even months after exposure. Other sample sources for testing such as urine offer an immediate window of testing however most drugs can only be detected 1 to 3 days following initial use. Although segmental hair analysis is becoming increasingly popular the risk of a false positive is high when compared to urine or blood testing. Dark hair color poor personal hygiene and passive exposure can all lead to false positive segmental hair analysis results.

Due the increased risk of false positives associated with segmental hair analysis and the more invasive collection required for serum and urinalysis and for other reasons stated below that will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the present specification there is a need in the art for alternative methods of determining levels of toxicant exposure.

The various embodiments include the detection of chemical exposure through the preparation of intact plucked hair follicle bulbs. The methods described herein can be used to monitor real time or near real time changes in the levels of specific follicular bulb biomarkers to determine exposure to toxicants. By utilizing the living responsive cells in the plucked hair follicle bulb in an immunohistochemical IHC analysis the various embodiments mitigate the risks of false positives associated with segmental hair analysis and avoid the more invasive collection required for serum and urinalysis. The various embodiments of the invention rely upon detection of various agent responsive proteins biomarkers in intact plucked hair follicle bulbs. Rather than measuring the toxicant or its metabolites changes in specific toxicant responsive follicle bulb proteins are monitored to determine toxicant exposure.

In the following detailed description of the present embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that process chemical or mechanical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

Carbamate OP pesticides and OP nerve agents exert their effects through the inhibition of Acetylcholinesterase AChE . Acetylcholinesterase is the enzyme responsible for the breakdown of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine ACh . Following AChE inhibition ACh accumulates in the synapses. As a result of the increased ACh concentration in the synapses the portions of the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system that control smooth muscle cardiac muscle and exocrine glandular function are overstimulated. Urine and blood tests are available to determine the presence of OP compound hydrolysis products. Although conclusive most require derivatization prior to analysis. Currently measurement of AChE levels in the blood is the fastest and most commonly employed method to determine exposure to pesticides and nerve agents. Although this test is faster than analyzing for hydrolysis products in the urine or blood there are still several drawbacks to the test due to the inherent nature of AChE. First it has been reported that there is a 10 18 interindividual variation and a 3 to 7 intraindividual variation for AChE levels. Thus without a known personal baseline it is difficult to conclude if a person has been exposed to a nerve agent if they show inhibition levels of less than 20 . Secondly due to the de novo synthesis of new AChE this method cannot be used for retrospective determination of exposure. The various embodiments of the invention facilitate simple and rapid determination of exposure to carbamate and OP pesticides and OP nerve agents.

In order to reduce the invasiveness of blood or urine based tests a new methodology using plucked hair follicle bulbs was developed. Plucked hair follicle bulb collection is relatively non invasive can be performed in the field and samples can be easily preserved stored and shipped. Additionally enough hair samples can easily be collected and stored in order to repeat testing for further confirmation. By employing IHC this method overcomes the false positives associated with traditional segmental hair analysis. By measuring the changes in specific biomarker levels in the living portion of the hair follicle bulb the IHC technique employed in this method detects response to exposure in near real time.

The concept of IHC began in the 1930s when several studies reported that antibodies could be marked with dye groups and still retain their specific immunoreactivity. Several years later it was demonstrated with labeled anti typhoid serum and unlabeled anti cholera serum that the color seen in the agglutinated typhoid was due to specific antibody binding and not non specific absorption or occlusion of the dye in the cell. The immunofluorescence of mouse tissue infected with pneumococcus has been observed to occur in localized areas and the staining is immunologically specific. In the more than six decades since initial studies many improvements have been made in IHC allowing it to become a commonly employed laboratory technique.

IHC successfully bridges the fields of immunology chemistry and histology resulting in a simple yet powerful research and diagnostic tool. Antibodies are used to identify specific antigens within tissue sections. Following antigen antibody binding the antigen is then demonstrated in the tissue with a colored dye or fluorochrome. Because intact tissue is used IHC can be used to determine the location of specific antigens.

Disclosed herein are modifications to classical IHC methodologies in order to study intact plucked rat whisker follicle bulbs. Unlike traditional segmental hair analysis in which the specific chemical or metabolites are extracted from the hair shaft and measured the methods described herein can be used to monitor real time or near real time changes in the levels of specific follicular bulb biomarkers to determine exposure to toxicants. To date seventeen OP nerve agent responsive target proteins have been confirmed using Western Blotting and IHC. The methodology described herein may further find use in determining exposure to the OP nerve agent VX and the munitions compound Royal Demolition Explosive RDX as well as a variety of other toxicants.

By utilizing the living responsive cells in the plucked hair follicle bulb in an IHC analysis the various embodiments mitigate the risks of false positives associated with segmental hair analysis and avoid the more invasive collection required for serum and urinalysis. The various embodiments of the invention rely upon detection of various agent responsive proteins biomarkers in intact plucked hair follicle bulbs using a novel immunohistochemistry IHC method. Rather than measuring the toxicant or its metabolites changes in specific toxicant responsive follicle bulb proteins are monitored to determine toxicant exposure. Seventeen potential biomarkers were identified for investigation. Table 1 lists these biomarkers. Multiple biomarkers were verified for use with embodiments of the invention.

Hair follicles cycle through three stages growth anagen involution catagen and rest telogen . A number of proteins cycle along with the hair follicle growth stages thus the growth stage of individual hairs can be monitored by the presence or absence of these specific cycling proteins. Correct measurement of growth stage is extremely important for research involving hair follicles. Hair follicle bulbs must be in the same growth stage in order to compare levels of proteins that change in response to agent exposure. Two control proteins are Alkaline phosphatase AP and Matrix Metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 .

Alkaline Phosphatase EC 3.1.3.1 AP is a zinc metalloenzyme with a wide range of cellular functions. There are four distinct forms of AP Intestinal IAP Placental PLAP Placental like ALP 1 and Tissue Non Specific TNAP . The Tissue Non Specific isoform of Alkaline Phosphatase was chosen for this work due to the fact that it is widely expressed in a number of tissues compared to the Intestinal Placental and Placental like isoforms which are tissue specific. Since the 1940s scientists have been studying the role of AP in hair growth. Increased interest in the role of AP in the hair follicle occurred when dermopathologists observed decreased or absent AP activity in early alopecia areata an autoimmune response causing hair loss in patches.

The levels of AP have been studied in the Long Evans hooded rat skin model. Slight levels of activity have been observed in early anagen. However a marked increase has been observed in AP activity in late anagen when rapid epithelial proliferation occurs. When the hair follicle is in telogen AP activity is not observed. It has further been reported that human hair follicles show an absence of AP in the dermal papilla of telogen follicles. AP activity has been observed in all stages of hair growth in C57 BL 6 mouse skin. However this data conflicts with the previous reports described above and there has been speculation that the observed differences might be due to strain specific differences.

Due to the conflicting reports on the presence of AP in the hair follicle only during growth stages an additional growth control was used. Matrix Metalloproteinase 2 EC 3.4.24.24 has been shown to play a key role in the remodeling and cell migration in the extracellular matrix. Growth stage dependent expression of MMP 2 mRNA has been studied in anterior dorsal skin of female Sprague Dawley rats. Matrix Metalloproteinase 2 mRNA was strongly expressed in anagen hair follicles and weakly expressed in telogen follicles. Using the two growth control antibodies simultaneously the growth stage of individual hair follicles can be determined with good confidence.

Most published reports using IHC to study the proteins in the hair follicle use sectioned skin biopsies. One manuscript was found to describe the use of unsectioned plucked hair follicles in IHC i.e. the study of DOPA negative melanocytes. See Horikawa T. et al. DOPA Negative Melanocytes in the Outer Root Sheath of Human Hair Follicles Express Premelanosomal Antigens But Not a Melanosomal Antigen or the Melanosome Associated Glycoproteins Tyrosinase TRP 1 and TRP 2. 1996 106 1 28 35. Since the proteins of interest examined in this work are not found in the Outer Root Sheath ORS the methods of the various embodiments necessarily differ from the method described by Horikowa et al. By digesting the ORS the internal structure of the hair follicle bulb can be examined without time consuming sectioning.

Whiskers of male and female Sprague Dawley rats Charles River Laboratories Wilmington Mass. USA were pulled manually with care to remove intact whisker bulbs and immediately snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 135 C. until analysis.

The mouse monoclonal antibodies used in this work were anti Actin Novus Biologicals Littleton Colo. USA anti Breast Cancer Antigen 1 BRCA 1 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti CD3 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti Glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor GDNF Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti Glutathion S Transferase GST Chemicon Temecula Calif. USA anti Keratin 10 Neo Markers Fremont Calif. USA anti Na KATPase 1 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA and anti Na KATPase 1 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA .

The rabbit polyclonal antibodies used in this work were anti Androgen Receptor AR Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti Brain Derived Neutrophic Factor BDNF Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti Cytochrome P450 1A1 CYP1A1 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti CD20 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti Estrogen Receptor ER Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti Glyceraldehyde Phosphate Dehydrogenase GAPDH Novus Biologicals Littleton Colo. USA anti Glucose Transporter 1 Glut 1 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA and anti NAD P H quinone oxidoreductase 1 NQO 1 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA .

The goat polyclonal antibodies used in this work were anti Aldehyde Dehydrogenase 1A2 ALDH1A2 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA anti Tissue Non Specific Alkaline Phosphatase TNAP Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA and anti Tumor Necrosis Factor TNF Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA .

The chicken polyclonal antibody used in this work was anti Matrix Metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 Abcam Cambridge Mass. USA .

The Cy5 labeled goat anti rabbit IgG and Cy5 labeled goat anti mouse IgG were purchased from Amersham Biosciences Pisataway N.J. USA . Cy5 labeled and Cy3 labeled rabbit anti goat IgG was purchased from Chemicon Temecula Calif. USA . Alexa Fluor 532 labeled anti Chicken IgY was made from rabbit anti Chicken IgY Abcam Cambridge Mass. USA labelled with the Alexa Fluor 532 Protein Labeling Kit Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. USA . Alkaline phosphatase conjugated anti rabbit IgG anti mouse IgG anti goat IgG and anti chicken IgY were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. USA .

Protein was extracted from the bulb region of 15 to 25 hairs from donor rats. The hairs were cut to separate the bulb and shaft regions. The bulb region was then incubated in buffer as described by Inoue et al. at 37 C. for 96 hr. See Inoue T. Kizawa K. Ito M. Characterization of Soluble Protein Extracts from Keratinized Tissues Identification of Ubiquitin Universally Distributed in Hair Nail and Stratum Corneum 2001 65 4 895 900. Following extraction the proteins were dialyzed against 0.2 M Tris HCl pH 8.0 containing Complete Protease Inhibitor Cocktail tablets Roche Indianapolis Ind. USA at room temperature for 4 hr 2 buffer changes and then at 4 C. overnight. Protein concentration was determined using the DC Protein Assay kit BioRad Hercules Calif. USA . Extracts were separated by SDS PAGE Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis using a 10 20 Tris HCl Ready Gel BioRad Hercules Calif. USA . Equal amounts of the hair protein extract were heated in an equal volume of 2 Sample Buffer 62.5 mM Tris HCl pH 6.8 containing 2 SDS 20 Glycerol and 0.01 Bromophenol Blue at the temperature and time indicated in Table 2 for biomarker candidates and controls. Kaleidoscope size markers BioRad Hercules Calif. USA were run concurrently in each gel.

Following electrophoresis the gel was incubated for 15 min in Transfer Buffer 25 mM KHPO 25 mM KHPO and 0.25 mM EDTA . The proteins were then transferred onto 0.45 m nitrocellulose membranes Schleicher and Schuell Keene N.H. USA in a BioRad Mini Protean Transfer Cell BioRad Hercules Calif. USA .

Following transfer the nitrocellulose membranes were incubated with Antibody Extender Solution Pierce Rockford Ill. USA at room temperature for 10 min. The nitrocellulose membranes were blocked in TTBS 50 mM Tris pH 8.0 containing 150 mM NaCl and 0.5 Tween containing 5 BSA overnight 4 C. Primary antibodies were diluted to a concentration of between 1 20 and 1 50 in TTBS containing 5 BSA see Table 2 for dilutions . The membranes were incubated with the primary antibody at 37 C. for 4 hr. The membranes were washed with TTBS 4 times 5 min per wash. Dye conjugated secondary antibodies were diluted in TTBS containing 5 BSA see Table 2 for dilutions . The membranes were incubated in secondary antibody at room temperature for 1 hr. Following removal from secondary antibody the membranes were washed in TTBS 4 times 5 min per wash and rinsed in diHO 3 times 2 min per rinse. Membranes were developed with NBT BCIP Roche Indianapolis Ind. USA at room temperature until sufficient color development occurred.

Hair samples were fixed briefly in fresh acetone removed and incubated in TBS 50 mM Tris pH 8.0 containing 150 mM NaCl at room temperature for 15 minutes. The hairs were mounted onto glass slides leaving the bulb and lower shaft of the follicle free and digested with 0.1 mg ml Proteinase K Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA in 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 containing 50 mM CaClat 37 C. for 1 hr. Following digestion the entire slide was washed with TTBS 4 times 5 min per wash. Individual hair follicle lower shaft and bulb were blocked at room temperature for 10 minutes with TTBS containing 5 BSA. The blocking solution was blotted off and each hair follicle lower shaft and bulb was covered with primary antibody 1 25 1 50 see Table 2 for dilutions . Slides were incubated at 4 C. overnight in a humidity chamber. Following incubation with the primary antibody slides were washed with TTBS 4 times 5 min per wash. Each lower shaft and hair follicle bulb was immersed in Cy5 labeled secondary antibody 1 400 . Slides were incubated at room temperature for 1 hr in darkness. Following secondary antibody incubation slides were washed 4 times 5 min per wash with TTBS. For triple labeling 10 l of an anti TNAP 1 25 and anti MMP 2 1 50 mixture was used to cover each hair follicle lower shaft and bulb. Slides were incubated in a dark humidity chamber at room temperature for 1 hr. Following incubation with the anti TNAP anti MMP 2 mixture the slides were washed with TTBS 4 times 5 min per wash. Hairs were covered with a mixture Cy3 labeled rabbit anti goat IgG 1 400 and Alexa 532 rabbit anti chicken IgY 1 400 in a dark humidity chamber at room temperature for 1 hr. Slides were washed with TTBS 4 times 5 min per wash and rinsed with diH0 3 times 2 min per wash. Images were analyzed on Affymetrix 428 scanner Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. USA using Affymetrix Jaguar 2.0 software Affymerix Santa Clara Calif. USA .

All targets chosen for study were due to their role in skin biology or OP pesticide or nerve agent response. Western Blots were performed to ensure that the specific protein of interest was located in the hair bulb. shows Western blotting confirmation of all targets. Of the potential targets from Table 1 all could be verified in the bulb region of the follicle except CD3 and Na K ATPase 1. In the figure shows the Western Blot of total rat follicle bulb protein separated by 10 20 SDS PAGE. The lanes are 1 BioRad Kaleidoscope Molecular Weight Ladder 2 BRCA 1 3 GAPDH 4 Keratin 10 5 MMP 2 6 TNAP 7 Actin 8 ALDH 1A2 9 AR 10 BDNF 11 CD 20 12 CYP 1A1 13 ER 14 GDNF 15 GLUT 1 16 GST 17 Na K ATPase 1 18 NQO I 19 Tubulin 20 Tubulin and 21 TNF .

CD 3 is the designation given to the multi subunit complex of proteins that associate with the T cell antigen receptor TCR . It has been reported that only 5 cells out of 100 hair follicles express TCR in the distal outer root sheath thus TCR is found extremely rarely in the hair follicle. The reported rarity of finding TCR in the hair follicle may explain why the Western blotting carried out in this work did not confirm CD 3 in the rat whisker hair follicle bulb.

The Na K ATPase 1 subunit was the other potential target that could not be confirmed by the Western Blotting in the experiments described herein. However the Western blotting confirmed the 1 subunit of the Na K ATPase among follicle proteins. The 1 and 1 subunits are found in a 1 1 ratio in the plasma membrane complex Na K ATPase. The lack of confirmation of the 1 subunit may be due to the epitope of the antibody used or the fact that 32 of the subunit protein mass is found in the lipid associated membrane region. Only a small portion of the subunit protein mass is found in the lipid associated region which could explain the confirmation of the subunit in the rat whisker follicle by Western blotting.

Proteinase K EC 3.4.21.14 is a non specific serine protease commonly used in IHC to digest tissue samples to retrieve epitopes and reduce background immunoreactivity. Termed Protease Induced Epitope Retrieval PIER this technique has been described for the retrieval of keratins in cancerous tissue. See Huang S. Minassian H. More J. D. Application of Immunofluorescent Staining on Paraffin Sections Improved by Trypsin Digestion 1976 35 4 383 390. In this technique enzymes such as trypsin proteinase K pronase ficin and or pepsin are used to non specifically digest proteins in a fixed sample in order to retrieve epitopes of interest. However care must be taken in order to ensure that epitopes are not destroyed by excessive enzyme digestion.

The PIER technique employed for this work was achieved by Proteinase K in order to digest the fibrous Outer Root Sheath ORS of the rat whisker follicle bulb. To optimize this technique for the investigation of the rat whisker bulb a series of PIER time course experiments were carried out. The efficiency of the Proteinase K digestion was measured using anti Keratin 10 and anti MMP 2. Keratin 10 a positive control protein is expressed in the epidermis and inner root sheath IRS of normal human and dog hair. However Keratin 10 is not expressed in the ORS. In order to control for the growth stage of the whisker the protein MMP 2 was probed. However unlike Keratin 10 it is expressed in the ORS and other layers within the hair bulb.

By using this growth stage indicator expressed in the ORS the growth stage of the hair follicle bulb can be controlled for between whiskers used in the PIER procedure optimization. When the ORS is still intact there should be no interactions of the Keratin 10 antibody with the specific protein. Only after the Proteinase K digests the ORS should any interactions of Keratin 10 with the specific antibody be observed. Thus the digestion timing can be optimized to expose the proteins found beneath the ORS.

As expected there was minimal Keratin 10 immunoreactivity but strong MMP 2 immunoreactivity before any proteinase K digestion . Following 30 and 60 minutes of digestion the ORS was digested as evidenced by the abundance of Keratin 10 antibody binding . As the ORS was digested MMP 2 was still clearly observed in the IRS. One of the dangers of PIER is the possibility of over digestion resulting in destruction of the epitope of interest. As shown in after 90 minutes of Proteinase K digestion some of the Keratin 10 epitope has been destroyed. This is evidenced by the fact that the whisker is in an active state however the areas of active growth are beginning to show diminished Keratin 10 immunoreactivity. Based on the data shown in a 60 minute digestion was determined optimal for these given PIER conditions the ORS was digested yet the epitopes containing the regions of interest were not damaged.

In order to further confirm the presence of potential targets in the hair bulb IHC using antibodies for the specific target proteins was performed. All hair protein targets with positive results in Western blotting experiments were further verified in the intact hair follicle bulb using modified whole mount IHC.

In order to ensure that observed immunoreactivity results were not due to non specific binding of the secondary antibody negative controls experiments were performed. The chicken goat and rabbit secondary antibodies used in the IHC all produce minimal background immunoreactivity. However using a mouse secondary antibody results in slightly higher background levels. This increased background observed when using a mouse secondary antibody is likely the result of the significant protein homology between the rat and mouse. Based on these results it was determined that polyclonal antibodies produced in chicken goat and rabbit are generally preferred.

An additional negative control antibody anti BRCA 1 was employed in these experiments. Since BRCA 1 proteins are not found in the hair follicle no fluorescence should be observed. The total fluorescence for a hair bulb stained for BRCA 1 is negligible. The hair bulb probed with anti BRCA 1 in this example appeared to have less background than the hair bulb probed with only the mouse secondary antibody. While both bulbs in this example were actively growing analysis of the MMP 2 and TNAP immunoreactivity patterns revealed they are not in the same growth stage. If the bulb of the hair probed with anti BRCA 1 was in the same growth stage as the mouse secondary antibody negative control the background levels likely would have been similar.

As noted above the whole mount immunohistochemistry methods of the various embodiments may be used to detect exposure to a variety of toxicants from a single intact hair. One example of a toxicant of interest is Hexahydro 1 3 5 trinitro 1 3 5 triazine more commonly known as RDX for Royal Demolition Explosive . RDX is a highly explosive nitroaromatic compound used in military munitions Bhushan et al. 2003 . RDX was widely used in World War II and comprises 91 of Composition C 4 plastic explosive. RDX is highly toxic to humans and animals resulting in central nervous system related convulsions and hyperactivity of the liver lung and kidney. Unfortunately unlike pesticides and other simple nitroaromatic compounds explosives such as 2 4 6 trinitrotoluene TNT RDX and octahydro 1 3 5 7 tetranitro 1 2 5 7 tetrazine HMX are less biodegradable than pesticides and other simple nitroaromatic compounds and persist in the soil and water of contaminated sites.

To observe protein expression changes in rats exposed to RDX male rats approximately six weeks old were exposed to either 3 mg kg low dose or 18 mg kg high dose of 99 pure RDX powder by gavage pill by mouth . Three animals from each dosage group were euthanized 24 and 48 hours following exposure. At the time of death whiskers were collected by pulling manually snap freezing in liquid nitrogen and storing at 80 C. until use.

Hair samples were briefly fixed in fresh acetone removed and incubated in TBS Tris pH 8.0 for 15 minutes at room temperature. Hairs were mounted onto glass slides leaving the bulb and lower shaft of the follicle free. The hairs were digested with Proteinase K Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. USA in 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 containing 50 mM CaCl2 for 1 hour at 37 C. Following digestion the entire slide was washed with TTBS 4 times 5 minutes per wash. Individual hair follicle lower shaft and bulb were incubated with blocking solution TTBS containing 5 BSA at room temperature for 10 minutes. Following the removal of the blocking solution each hair follicle bulb and lower shaft was then covered with primary antibody 1 25 1 50 . Slides were incubated at 4 C. overnight in a humidity chamber. Following incubation with the primary antibody slides were washed with TTBS 4 times. Then each lower shaft and hair follicle was immersed in Cy5 labeled secondary antibody 1 400 . Slides were incubated at room temperature for 1 hour in darkness. Following secondary antibody incubation slides were washed 4 times 5 minutes per wash with TTBS. For triple labeling 10 l of an anti TNAP 1 25 and anti MMP 2 1 50 mixture were used to cover each hair follicle. Slides were then incubated in a humidity chamber at room temperature for 1 hour in darkness. Following incubation with anti TNAP and anti MMP 2 the slides were then washed with TTBS 4 times. Hairs were incubated in a mixture of Cy3 labeled rabbit anti goat IgG 1 400 and Alexa Fluor 532 labeled rabbit anti chicken IgY 1 400 for 1 hour at room temperature in a dark humidity chamber. Slides were again washed with TTBS 4 times and rinsed with ddiH20 3 times. Images were analyzed on an Affymetrix 428 scanner Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. USA using Affymetrix Jaguar 2.0 software Affymetrix Santa Clara Calif. USA . Table 3 lists protein expression changes to six potential biomarkers as noted following such preparation and analysis.

Detection of chemical exposure through the preparation of intact plucked hair follicle bulbs has been described herein. The methods described herein can be used to monitor real time or near real time changes in the levels of specific follicular bulb biomarkers to determine exposure to toxicants. By utilizing the living responsive cells in the plucked hair follicle bulb in an immunohistochemical IHC analysis the various embodiments mitigate the risks of false positives associated with segmental hair analysis and avoid the more invasive collection required for serum and urinalysis. The various embodiments of the invention rely upon detection of various agent responsive proteins biomarkers in intact plucked hair follicle bulbs. Rather than measuring the toxicant or its metabolites changes in specific toxicant responsive follicle bulb proteins are monitored to determine toxicant exposure.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Many adaptations of the invention will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly this application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the invention. It is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

