---

title: Treatment of cancer and other diseases
abstract: The present invention relates to a novel compound (e.g., 24-ethyl-cholestane-3β,5α,6α-triol), its production, its use, and to methods of treating neoplasms and other tumors as well as other diseases including hypercholesterolemia, autoimmune diseases, viral diseases (e.g., hepatitis B, hepatitis C, or HIV), and diabetes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08293726&OS=08293726&RS=08293726
owner: Vianova Labs, Inc.
number: 08293726
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061130
---
This application is the national stage of International Application No. PCT US2006 045665 filed Nov. 30 2006 which in turn claims benefit of U.S. Application No. 60 741 725 filed Dec. 2 2005.

The invention relates to the treatment of neoplasms or other tumors as well as other diseases including hypercholesterolemia autoimmune diseases a viral diseases e.g. hepatitis B hepatitis C or HIV and diabetes.

Throughout the world there are public and government concerns about the increasing prevalence cancer. Many treatments exist but severe side effects and limited survival rate are pushing the research community into new approaches for treatments.

Cancer is a disease marked by the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells. Cancer cells have overcome the barriers imposed on normal cells which have a finite lifespan to grow indefinitely. As the growth of cancer cells continue genetic alterations may persist until the cancerous cell has manifested itself to pursue a more aggressive growth phenotype. If left untreated metastasis the spread of cancer cells to distant areas of the body by way of the lymph system or bloodstream may ensue destroying healthy tissue.

According to a recent American Cancer Society study approximately 1 268 000 new cancer cases were expected to be diagnosed in the United States in the year 2001 alone. Lung cancer is the most common cancer related cause of death among men and women accounting for over 28 of all cancer related deaths. It is the second most commonly occurring cancer among men and women it has been estimated that there were more than 169 000 new cases of lung cancer in the U.S. in the year 2001 accounting for 13 of all new cancer diagnoses. While the rate of lung cancer cases is declining among men in the U.S. it continues to increase among women. According to the American Cancer Society an estimated 157 400 Americans were expected to die due to lung cancer in 2001.

Cells require a flexible permeable fluid active membrane. The cell membrane which defines the cell and boundaries of cell organelles is generally composed of lipid cholesterol phospholipids sphingolipids proteins and carbohydrates. Cholesterol plays an important role in the flexibility the fluidity and the permeability of the membrane and the maintenance of these properties across a range of temperatures.

Exogenic uptake is mediated by specific receptors on the membrane itself cholesterol is adsorbed from body fluids in contact with the cell. This uptake occurs through endocytosis of lipoprotein particles that contain cholesterol. The isomerization process of the phosphatidylcholine CC double bond cis trans allow phospholipids with low density lipoprotein to contain specific receptors for cholesterol adsorption. Most animal cells acquire cholesterol by receptor mediated endocytosis of low density lipoproteins that contain cholesterol to form endosomes which migrate to lysosomes for degradation and release of cholesterol into the cell.

By contrast endogenous synthesis requires substantial energy. The synthesis of sterols cholestane vitamin D and cholesterol starts with squalene. Typically cholesterol synthesis takes place in the cytoplasm of liver and intestinal cells through hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA reductase HMG CoA reductase .

During the last three decades cancer treatment was mainly focused on using cytotoxic products attacking both tumor and normal cells. There is therefore a need to finding additional targeted therapies to treat cancer with fewer side effects as compared to conventional therapies.

In formula I each of R R and Ris independently selected from OH SH and NH the stereochemistry at positions 3 5 and 6 is either 3 5 6 or 3 5 6 each of R R R R R R and Ris independently selected from H OH SH and NH. In one embodiment each of R R and Ris OH. An exemplary compound of formula I has the structure 

The compound can be part of a composition also including a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and be suitable for oral intravenous topical subcutaneous buccal intramuscular inhalation intrathecal intraarticular intratumoral or rectal administration. When formulated for oral administration the compound can be present for example in an amount between 0.005 mg and 500 mg more desirably between 1 mg and 100 mg e.g. 1 5 10 20 25 30 50 75 or 100 mg .

The composition can further another agent such as an antiproliferative agent an cholesterol reducing agent an antidiabetic agent an antiinflammatory agent or an antiviral agent. Exemplary agents are provided herein.

The invention also features a process for preparing 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol comprising the step of oxidizing sitosterol. Using this process for example 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol can be prepared from sitosterol and 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol can be prepared from sitosterol. There are many methods by which the sitosterol can be oxidized to prepare 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol. In one such method sitosterol is oxidized by reaction with periodate in the presence of osmium tetroxide.

If desirable the compounds and compositions of the invention can be components of kits. Typically a kit also includes instructions for administering the compound or composition for treating a disease e.g. a neoplasm or other tumor .

The compounds compositions and kits of the invention can be employed in methods of treating diseases e.g. any of the diseases provided herein . In particular they can be employed in methods of treating cancer or other neoplasms. These compounds can also be used to treat hypercholesterolemia autoimmune diseases diabetes and viral infections among others. In a related aspect the compounds and compositions of the invention can be used for the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of any of the foregoing diseases.

The invention also features a method for treating a neoplasm comprising administering to a patient a compound or combination of compounds that inhibits HMG CoA reductase and inhibits uptake of cholesterol into a cell.

Neoplasms that can be treated according to the invention include cancers such as leukemias e.g. acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia acute myeloblastic leukemia acute promyelocytic leukemia acute myelomonocytic leukemia acute monocytic leukemia acute erythroleukemia chronic leukemia chronic myelocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia lung cancer e.g. squamous cell carcinoma adenocarinoma or large cell carcinoma colorectal cancer ovarian cancer e.g. ovarian adenocarcinoma prostate cancer polycythemia vera lymphoma Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s disease Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia heavy chain disease and solid tumors such as sarcomas and carcinomas e.g. fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma chordoma angiosarcoma endotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphangioendotheliosarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma pancreatic cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas cystadenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma seminoma embryonal carcinoma Wilm s tumor cervical cancer uterine cancer testicular cancer lung carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma bladder carcinoma epithelial carcinoma glioma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyngioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oligodendroglioma schwannoma meningioma melanoma neuroblastoma and retinoblastoma.

Autoimmune diseases that can be treated according to the invention include allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis autoimmune hemolytic anemia acanthosis nigricans allergic contact dermatitis Addison s disease atopic dermatitis alopecia greata alopecia universalis amyloidosis anaphylactoid purpura anaphylactoid reaction aplastic anemia angioedema hereditary angioedema idiopathic ankylosing spondylitis arteritis cranial arteritis giant cell arteritis Takayasu s arteritis temporal asthma a telangiectasia autoimmune oophoritis autoimmune orchitis autoimmune polyendocrine failure Behcet s disease Berger s disease Buerger s disease bullous pemphigus candidiasis chronic mucocutaneous Caplan s syndrome post myocardial infarction syndrome post pericardiotomy syndrome carditis celiac sprue Chagas s disease Chediak Higashi syndrome Churg Strauss disease Cogan s syndrome cold agglutinin disease CREST syndrome Crohn s disease cryoglobulinemia cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis dermatitis herpetifomis dermatomyositis diabetes mellitus Diamond Blackfan syndrome DiGeorge syndrome discoid lupus erythematosus eosinophilic fascitis episcleritis drythema elevatum diutinum erythema marginatum erythema multiforme erythema nodosum familial Mediterranean fever Felty s syndrome fibrosis pulmonary glomerulonephritis anaphylactoid glomerulonephritis autoimmune glomerulonephritis post streptococcal glomerulonephritis post transplantation glomerulopathy membranous Goodpasture s syndrome graft vs. host disease granulocytopenia immune mediated granuloma annulare granulomatosis allergic granulomatous myositis Grave s disease Hashimoto s thyroiditis hemolytic disease of the newborn hemochromatosis idiopathic Henoch Schoenlein purpura hepatitis chronic active and chronic progressive histiocytosis X hypereosinophilic syndrome idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura Job s syndrome juvenile dermatomyositis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile chronic arthritis Kawasaki s disease keratitis keratoconjunctivitis sicca Landry Guillain Barre Strohl syndrome leprosy lepromatous Loeffler s syndrome Lyell s syndrome Lyme disease lymphomatoid granulomatosis mastocytosis systemic mixed connective tissue disease mononeuritis multiplex Muckle Wells syndrome mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome multicentric reticulohistiocytosis multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis mycosis fungoides necrotizing vasculitis systemic nephrotic syndrome overlap syndrome panniculitis paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria pemphigoid pemphigus pemphigus erythematosus pemphigus foliaceus pemphigus vulgaris pigeon breeder s disease pneumonitis hypersensitivity polyarteritis nodosa polymyalgia rheumatica polymyositis polyneuritis idiopathic Portuguese familial polyneuropathies pre eclampsia eclampsia primary biliary cirrhosis progressive systemic sclerosis scleroderma psoriasis psoriatic arthritis pulmonary alveolar proteinosis pulmonary fibrosis Raynaud s phenomenon syndrome Reidel s thyroiditis Reiter s syndrome relapsing polychrondritis rheumatic fever rheumatoid arthritis sarcoidosis scleritis sclerosing cholangitis serum sickness Sezary syndrome Sjogren s syndrome Stevens Johnson syndrome Still s disease subacute sclerosing panencephalitis sympathetic ophthalmia systemic lupus erythematosus transplant rejection ulcerative colitis undifferentiated connective tissue disease urticaria chronic urticaria cold uveitis vitiligo Weber Christian disease Wegener s granulomatosis and Wiskott Aldrich syndrome.

By prodrug is meant any compound of the invention further modified in that one or more hydroxyl sulfhydryl or amino group of the compound is covalently attached to another molecule via a bond which is cleaved under in vivo conditions to form a free hydroxyl free amino or free sulfhydryl group respectively. Thus prodrug is intended to include any covalently bonded carrier that releases an active compound of the invention in vivo following administration to a subject. Prodrugs of the invention can be used for example with the objective s of improved chemical stability improved patient acceptance and compliance improved bioavailability prolonged duration of action improved organ selectivity improved formulation e.g. increased hydrosolubility and or decreased side effects e.g. toxicity . The prodrug can be readily prepared from the inventive compounds using methods known in the art such as those described by Burger s Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Chemistry Fifth Ed. Vol. 1 pp. 172 178 949 982 1995 . Examples of prodrugs that can be used include without limitation esters thioesters carbamates and amides among others.

By substantially pure is meant at least 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 98 99 or greater purity of a compound. Additionally substantially pure may refer to a compound of formula I where the compound is present in a composition in a ratio of at least 1.2 1.5 1.8 2 2.5 3 5 10 or greater relative to related compounds with which it naturally occurs without regard for other components of the composition. The naturally occurring compounds may include cholestane or cholestane derivatives for example isomers e.g. stereoisomers of a compound of formula I .

By antiproliferative agent is meant any antiproliferative agent including those antiproliferative agents listed in Table 1 any of which can be used in combination with a formula I compound to threat the medical conditions recited herein. Antiproliferative agents also include organo platine derivatives naphtoquinone and benzoquinone derivatives chrysophanic acid and anthroquinone derivatives thereof.

By an antihypercholesterolemia agent is meant any drug that the lowers cholesterol level of a patient. An antihypercholesterolemia agent may function by reducing the synthesis of cholesterol in the patient. Antihypercholesterolemia agents include atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin simvastatin colesevelam cholestyramine colestipol nicotinic acid gemfibrozil probucol and clofibrate

By an antiviral agent is meant any compound that destroys a virus or that reduces a virus s ability to replicate or disseminate in vivo. Antiviral agents can be used therapeutically in combination with a formula I compound. Examples of antiviral agents include interferon ribavirin 1 D ribofuranosyl 1H 1 2 4 thiazole 3 carboxamide and its derivatives and the synthetic nucleotide analog lamivudine cis 1 2 Hydroxymethyl 5 1 3 oxathiolanyl cytosine and its analogs. Other examples of antiviral agents include idoxuridine vidarabine trifluridine acyclovir famciclovir penciclovir valacyclovir ganciclovir foscarnet amantadine rimantadine cidofovir zidovudine didanosine zalcitabine stavudine nevirapine delavirdine saquinavir ritonavir indinavir nelfinavir adefovir dipivoxil suramin polycytidylic acid 2 3 dideoxy cytidine or ubenimex. One skilled in the art would know how to assay the antiviral activity of an agent using an antiviral assay e.g. the methods disclosed in e.g. Monkarsh et al. 247 434 440 1997 Grace et al. 21 1103 1115 2001 Bailon et al. 12 195 202 2001 . Desirably an antiviral agent results in a reduction in viral replication or dissemination of for example at least 10 20 30 or 50 . In more desirable embodiments an antiviral agent reduces viral replication or dissemination for example by at least 70 80 90 95 or even 99 .

By antidiabetic agent is meant any compound that may be used to decrease at least one symptom of diabetes. Antidiabetic agents can be used in combination with formula I compounds for the treatment of diabetes. Exemplary antidiabetic agents include sulfonylureas non sulfonylurea secretagogues insulin insulin analogs glucagon like peptides exendin 4 polypeptides beta 3 adrenoceptor agonists PPAR agonists dipeptidyl peptidase Iv inhibitors biguanides alpha glucosidase inhibitors immunomodulators statins and statin containing combinations angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors adenosine A1 receptor agonists adenosine A2 receptor agonists aldosterone antagonists alpha 1 adrenoceptor antagonists alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonists alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonists angiotensin receptor antagonists antioxidants ATPase inhibitors atrial peptide agonists beta adrenoceptor antagonists calcium channel agonists calcium channel antagonists diuretics dopamine D1 receptor agonists endopeptidase inhibitors endothelin receptor antagonists guanylate cyclase stimulants phosphodiesterase V inhibitors protein kinase inhibitors Cdc2 kinase inhibitors renin inhibitors thromboxane synthase inhibitors vasopeptidase inhibitors vasopressin I antagonists vasopressin 2 antagonists angiogenesis inhibitors advanced glycation end product inhibitors bile acid binding agents bile acid transport inhibitors bone formation stimulants apolipoprotein A1 agonists DNA topoisomerase inhibitors cholesterol absorption inhibitors cholesterol antagonists cholesteryl ester transfer protein antagonists cytokine synthesis inhibitors DNA polymerase inhibitors dopamine D2 receptor agonists endothelin receptor antagonists growth hormone antagonists insulin sensitizers lipase inhibitors lipid peroxidation inhibitors lipoprotein A antagonists microsomal transport protein inhibitors microsomal triglyceride transfer protein inhibitors nitric oxide synthase inhibitors oxidizing agents phospholipase A2 inhibitors radical formation agonists platelet aggregation antagonists prostaglandin synthase stimulants reverse cholesterol transport activators rho kinase inhibitors selective estrogen receptor modulators squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthase inhibitors thromboxane A2 antagonists amylin agonists cannabinoid receptor antagonists cholecystokinin A agonists corticotropin releasing factor agonists dopamine uptake inhibitors G protein coupled receptor modulators glutamate antagonists glucagon like peptide 1 agonists insulin sensitizers lipase inhibitors melanin concentrating hormone receptor antagonists nerve growth factor agonists neuropeptide agonists neuropeptide Y antagonists SNRIs protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors and serotonin 2C receptor agonists.

By antiinflammatory agent is meant any agent that reduces an inflammatory response. Antiinflammatory agents can be used in combination with formula I compounds for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and other inflammatory disorders. Exemplary agents include NSAIDs COX 2 inhibitors e.g. rofecoxib celecoxib valdecoxib and lumiracoxib biologics e.g. inflixamab adelimumab etanercept CDP 870 rituximab and atlizumab small molecule immunomodulators DMARDs e.g. methotrexate leflunomide minocycline auranofin gold sodium thiomalate aurothioglucose and azathioprine and corticosteroids.

By corticosteroid is meant any naturally occurring or synthetic compound characterized by a hydrogenated cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene ring system and having immunosuppressive and or antiinflammatory activity. Corticosteroids can be used in combination with formula I compounds for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and other inflammatory disorders. Naturally occurring corticosteroids are generally produced by the adrenal cortex Synthetic corticosteroids may be halogenated.

By non steroidal anti inflammatory drug or NSAID is meant any non steroidal agent that decreases proinflammatory cytokine production or secretion binds an immunophilin or causes a down regulation of the proinflammatory reaction. NSAIDs can be used in combination with formula I compounds for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and other inflammatory disorders. NSAIDs include calcineurin inhibitors such as cyclosporine tacrolimus ascomycin pimecrolimus as well as other agents peptides peptide fragments chemically modified peptides or peptide mimetics that inhibit the phosphatase activity of calcineurin. NSAIDs also include rapamycin sirolimus and everolimus which bind to an FK506 binding protein FKBP 12 and block antigen induced proliferation of white blood cells and cytokine secretion.

By small molecule immunomodulator is meant a non steroidal non NsIDI compound that decreases proinflammatory cytokine production or secretion causes a down regulation of the proinflammatory reaction or otherwise modulates the immune system in an immunophilin independent manner. Small molecule immunomodulators can be used in combination with formula I compounds for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and other inflammatory disorders. Exemplary small molecule immunomodulators are p38 MAP kinase inhibitors such as VX 702 Vertex Pharmaceuticals SCIO 469 Scios doramapimod Boehringer Ingelheim RO 30201195 Roche and SCIO 323 Scios TACE inhibitors such as DPC 333 Bristol Myers Squibb ICE inhibitors such as pranalcasan Vertex Pharmaceuticals and IMPDH inhibitors such as mycophenolate Roche and merimepodib Vertex Pharmaceuticals .

The terms cancer or neoplasm or neoplastic cells encompass neoplasms cancers or neoplastic cells located at the original site of proliferation primary tumor or cancer and their invasion of other tissues or organs beyond the primary site metastasis .

By inhibits the growth of a neoplasm is meant measurably slows stops or reverses the growth rate of the neoplasm or neoplastic cells in vitro or in vivo. Desirably a slowing of the growth rate is by at least 20 30 50 or even 70 over a period of treatment of six month is achieved as determined using a suitable assay for determination of cell growth rates e.g. a cell growth assay described herein . Typically a reversal of growth rate is accomplished by initiating or accelerating necrotic or apoptotic mechanisms of cell death in the neoplastic cells resulting in a shrinkage of the neoplasm.

By an effective amount is meant the amount of a compound or a combination of compounds required to treat or prevent a disease in a clinically relevant manner. An effective amount of a compound varies depending upon the disease being treated the manner of administration and the age body weight and general health of the patient Ultimately the prescribers will decide the appropriate amount and dosage regimen according to good medical practice.

The term administration or administering refers to a method of giving a composition of the invention to a patient by a route such as inhalation ocular administration nasal instillation parenteral ministration dermal administration transdermal administration buccal administration rectal administration sublingual administration perilingual administration nasal administration topical administration and oral administration. Parenteral administration includes intrathecal intraarticular intratumoral intravenous intraperitoneal subcutaneous and intramuscular administration. The optimal method of administration of a drug or drug combination to treat a particular disease can vary depending on various factors e.g. the oral bioavailability of the drug s the anatomical location of the disease tissue and the severity of disease.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following Detailed Description the drawings and the claims.

The invention features therapeutic uses of a compounds of formula I e.g. 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol 

The invention provides compositions that include a compound of formula I or a prodrug e.g a prodrug described herein of the compound.

A compound within formula I 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol formula II shown below may be synthesized using the following protocol.

The starting material is betasitosterol mp156 C. and other sterols. The betasitosterol is diluted 15 fold in absolute ethanol w v at 0 C. and allowed to separate into a liquid and solid phase. The liquid phase is discarded the remaining solid phase is dissolved in the same volume of ethanol at 75 C.

Liquid and solid phases are again formed and the solid residue is removed by filtration at 75 C. and discarded. The liquid phase is cooled to room temperature until the appearance of a solid residue.

This solid residue is heated to generate a liquid phase 160 C. . The material is very slowly and slightly cooled until a solid mass forms. The liquid phase is separated from the solid phase which is discarded cooled to room temperature and added to pyridine at a ratio to 1 15 w v 0.5 grams of osmium tetroxide and 2 times w v HOplus 0.1 grams KIOare also added. The solution is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours and then heated under pyridine reflux for 3 hours. The solution is then cooled to 0 C. extracted with ether and washed successively with a 5 HCl aqueous solution water an aqueous NaCOsolution and water. The organic phase is then dried over MgSOat low pressure.

The obtained solid is then dissolved in ethanol and heated until completely dissolved. Water is very slowly added until the appearance of a slight white precipitant which is then filtered at the temperature of its formation. The solution is cooled dissolved in acetone and re crystallized in acetone water media filtered and dried under MgSOat low pressure.

Compounds hydroxylated at positions other than 3 5 and 6 can be prepared by enzymatic oxidation of sitosterol or phytosterols for example 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol as shown below in Scheme 1.

Enzymatic hydroxylations can be achieved for example by enzymatic oxidation using the P450 enzyme CYP3A4 Research Diagnostics Inc. product number RDI CYP3A4 . Either the commercially available enzyme can be used or the sitosterol or 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol can be incubated in liver microsomes or fermented in a microbial culture. See for example Ambrus et al. 60 621 1995 Aringer L. 257 13720 1982 Mahato et al. 196 629 1981 Aringer et al. 17 263 1976 and Aringer et al. 14 563 1973 .

The reaction of an olefin with osmium tetroxide described above is the most reliable method for cis dihydroxylation of a double bond particularly for preparation of cis diols. Cis dihydroxylation of olefins may also be achieved using permanganate or silver iodoacetate according to Woodward s procedure. A variety of synthetic conditions and oxidizing agents are known to be capable of cis hydroxylation of an olefin and may be used in the synthesis of the compounds of the invention. See for example VanRheenen et al. 6 342 1988 Vol. 58 p. 43 1978 .

The synthesis of compounds of the invention may include selective protection and deprotection of alcohols amines and or sulfhydryls functional groups. For example commonly used protecting groups for amines include carbamates such as tert butyl benzyl 2 2 2 trichloroethyl 2 trimethylsilylethyl 9 fluorenylmethyl allyl and m nitrophenyl. Other commonly used protecting groups for amines include amides such as formamides acetamides trifluoroacetamides sulfonamides trifluoromethanesulfonyl amides trimethylsilylethanesulfonamides and tert butylsulfonyl amides. Examples of commonly used protecting groups for alcohols include ethers such as methyl methoxymethyl methoxyethoxymethyl methylthiomethyl benzyloxymethyl tetrahydropyranyl ethoxyethyl benzyl 2 napthylmethyl O nitrobenzyl P nitrobenzyl P methoxybenzyl 9 phenylxanthyl trityl including methoxy trityls and silyl ethers. An acetal can be used to protect the 5 hydroxy and 6 hydroxy positions of an intermediate or compound of the invention Examples of commonly used protecting groups for sulfhydryls include many of the same protecting groups used for hydroxyls. In addition sulfhydryls can be protected in a reduced form e.g. as disulfides or an oxidized form e.g. as sulfonic acids sulfonic esters or sulfonic amides . Protecting groups can be chosen such that selective conditions e.g. acidic conditions basic conditions catalysis by a nucleophile catalysis by a lewis acid or hydrogenation are required to remove each exclusive of other protecting groups in a molecule. The conditions required for the addition of protecting groups to amine alcohol and sulfhydryl functionalities and the conditions required for their removal are provided in detail in T. W. Green and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 2ed. 1991 John Wiley Sons and P. J. Kocienski Protecting Groups 1994 Georg Thieme Verlag each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

An unprotected hydroxyl in a compound of the invention can be activated using standard techniques e.g. conversion to a tosylate brosylate mesylate triflate or other reactive leaving group see for example J. March Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure John Wiley Sons Inc. pp. 352 354 1992 . The conversion of the activated alcohol to a sulfhydryl group can be achieved by either addition of sulfide e.g. NASH NaS addition of disulfide e.g. NaS followed by reduction of the disulfide to a sulfhydryl group or transesterification of the activated alcohol with thioacetate followed by hydrolysis to the sulfhydryl with sodium acetate. The conversion of the activated alcohol to an amino group can be achieved by either addition of an amine or addition of azide followed by reduction to the amino group.

The compositions including a compound of formula I are formulated such that an effective amount of compound reaches the target region e.g. a neoplasm . The compound may be contained in any appropriate amount in any suitable carrier substance and is generally present in an amount of 1 95 by weight of the total weight of the composition. The composition may be provided in a dosage form that is suitable for oral parenteral e.g. intrathecally intraarticularly intratumorally intravenously intramuscularly rectal cutaneous nasal vaginal inhalant skin patch or ocular administration route.

Thus the composition may be in the form of e.g. tablets capsules pills powders granulates suspensions emulsions solutions gels including hydrogels pastes ointments creams plasters drenches osmotic delivery devices suppositories enemas injectables implants sprays or aerosols. The pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated according to conventional pharmaceutical practice see e.g. Remington 20th edition 2000 ed. A R Gennaro Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia and eds. J. Swarbrick and J. C. Boylan 1988 1999 Marcel Dekker New York .

For compositions that include combinations of compounds each compound of the combination may be formulated in any variety of ways that are known in the art. For example the first and second agents may be formulated together or separately. Desirably the first and second agents are formulated together for the simultaneous or near simultaneous administration of the agents. Such co formulated compositions can include the compound of formula I and for example an antiproliferative agent formulated together in the same pill capsule liquid etc.

The individually or separately formulated agents can be packaged together as in a kit. Non limiting examples include kits that contain e.g. two pills a pill and a powder a suppository and a liquid in a vial two topical creams among others. The kit can include optional components that aid in the administration of the unit dose to patients such as vials for reconstituting powder forms syringes for injection customized IV delivery systems inhalers among others. Additionally the unit dose kit can contain instructions for preparation and administration of the compositions. The kit may be manufactured as a single use unit dose for one patient multiple uses for a particular patient at a constant dose or in which the individual compounds may vary in potency as therapy progresses or the kit may contain multiple doses suitable for administration to multiple patients bulk packaging . The kit components may be assembled in cartons blister packs bottles tubes and the like.

Dosages of a compound of the invention may range from 0.005 mg kg to 2000 mg kg body weight per day mg kg day . For example a dose of 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.75 1.0 1.25 1.5 1.75 2.0 2.5 3 4 5 8 10 25 50 100 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 or 1750 mg kg day may be provided to the patient. Typically a patient suffering from a neoplasm is given 1 mg kg day initially. Once a 50 remission of the neoplasm is achieved the dosage may be reduced to 0.5 mg kg day. Further six months following the 50 remission the dose may be further decreased to 0.25 mg kg day. This treatment may be continued indefinitely or may be discontinued if it appears the neoplasm has been successfully treated. If a patient does not achieve a 50 remission or is at an advanced stage of disease the initial dose may be doubled to 2 mg kg day until 50 remission is achieved. Dosages are typically given orally. In one embodiment capsules each contain 10 mg of the compound. To achieve a 1 mg kg day dosing a 60 kg individual may take 6 capsules each containing 10 mg of the compound each day where one capsule is taken at time intervals spaced throughout the day.

The dosage of each compound or agent of the claimed compositions may additionally depend on other factors including the administration method the disease e.g. a neoplasm or other tumor hypercholesterolemia a viral infection an autoimmune disease to be treated the severity of the disease whether the disease is to be treated or prevented site of the diseased tissue e.g. a tumor and the race gender age weight and health of the patient to be treated. Ultimately dosing will be determined by a physician or other prescriber of treatment based on these factors. Dosages may be altered e.g. lowered where a compound of the invention is administered in combination with a second therapeutic. For example in the case of treating a patient with a neoplasm or other tumor a lower dose of a compound of the invention may be provided when given in conjunction with a chemotherapeutic agent e.g. an antiproliferative described herein .

Compounds of formula I and compositions including compounds of formula I are administered to a patient for the treatment of a neoplasm such as cancer. Other diseases that may be treated by the methods of the invention include hypercholesterolemia a viral infection such as hepatitis e.g. hepatitis A hepatitis B hepatitis C hepatitis D or hepatitis E or HIV an autoimmune disorder e.g. psoriasis or other diseases described herein and diabetes in particular type II diabetes.

Any composition or formulation including a compound of formula I and any mode of delivery may be used to provide treat the patient including oral intrathecal intraarticular intratumoral parenteral e.g. intravenously intramuscularly rectal cutaneous nasal vaginal inhalant skin patch or ocular administration. Therapeutic compositions may be administered to patients who exhibit at least one symptom of a disease to prevent the development of disease or to maintain a reduction of disease achieved by administration of a compound of the invention or another therapy.

Compounds of formula I or compositions comprising a compound of formula I and another therapeutic or therapeutics may be administered together. For example treatment of a neoplasm an autoimmune disorder or a viral infection may include administration of a compound of formula I together with an antiproliferative agent an antiinflammatory agent or an antiviral agent respectively. The combination administered may include one or more compounds in a subtherapeutically effective amount as determined separately for each compound.

In one example a compound of formula I with an additional therapeutic agent are administered to a patient. After symptoms of the disease have decreased administration of the additional agent is discontinued. The administration of a compound of formula I is then used to maintain the improved state of the patient following successful treatment with the combination of therapies. Such an approach may be particularly advantageous in cases where the additional agent has undesired side effects.

A formula I compound may be administered to treat a patient who has or has an increased propensity to develop a cancer or other neoplasm. Administration of the compound may be performed alone or in combination with existing therapies for neoplasms such as chemotherapy radiation therapy surgery or a personalized vaccine.

Chemotherapy employs chemical agents to treat neoplasms. Exemplary chemotherapeutic e.g. antiproliferative agents are shown in Table 1. As with radiation therapy chemotherapy typically targets rapidly dividing cells which include neoplastic cells.

Radiation therapy uses isotopes e.g. cesium Cs cobalt Co iodine I phosphorus P gold Au iridium Ir yttrium Y or palladium Pd to treat cancer. The radioactivity selectively kills rapidly dividing cells that include neoplastic cells. Methods of administration include brachytherapy such as seed implants where a radioactive substance in implanted in the body at or near the location of the neoplasm radioactivity from external sources such as external beam radiation therapy.

A common approach used to treat cancer is surgery. Once a tumor has been identified a surgeon can physically remove the tumor or a portion thereof from the patient.

Personalized vaccines employ antibodies directed toward a tumor found in the individual cancer patient. Such vaccines may be prepared as described in Hockertz 214 151 161 2005 and Morse et al. 2005 2 108 113 2005 and references cited therein. To prepare such a vaccine a sample containing either all or part of the tumor is removed from the patient using surgical techniques and cells or proteins are isolated from the tumor. Isolated proteins are preferably expressed preferentially in tumor cells as compared to normal cells. These cells or proteins in conjunction with an adjuvant that increases immune reactivity are injected into the patient. This induces an immune response to the injected cells or proteins a response which is targeted to the tumor composed of these cells or targeted to tumor cells that contain these proteins.

A formula I compound may also be administered to a patient suffering from hypercholesterolemia. The compound can block synthesis of cholesterol through HMG CoA reductase inhibition thereby reducing cholesterol levels thus decreasing the risk of diseases including arteriosclerosis heart disease and heart attacks. Formula I compounds may be combined with other antihypercholesterolemia agents.

Administration of a formula I compound has been shown to be effective in treating a patient having a viral infection such as HIV hepatitis B and hepatitis C. As the mechanism of action appears to be inhibition of reverse transcription a formula I compound the invention may be useful for treating many retroviral infections. Formula I compounds may be combined with other antivirals.

A formula I compound may be administered to a patient suffering from an autoimmune disorder such as psoriasis rheumatoid arthritis or any other such disease listed herein. Administration of a compound of the invention may be further include administration of an antiinflammatory agent such as those described herein.

A formula I compound may be administered to a patient suffering from diabetes. This administration may further include administration of an antidiabetic compound such as those described herein.

I believe that formula I compounds both inhibit the activity of HMG CoA reducatase and competitively bind receptors involved in exogenous cholesterol adsorption. Inhibition of HMG CoA reductase occurs in both normal cells and neoplastic cells however neoplastic cells are additionally rendered unable to adsorb exogenous cholesterol following administration of a formula I compound. This selectivity for neoplastic cells occurs for two reasons. First tumors are poorly vascularized which leads to a reduced supply of available exogenous cholesterol. Second the reduced vascularization additionally leads to hypoxia thereby increasing the concentration of anaerobic metabolic products including lactic acid pyruvic acid and carbon dioxide. Further poor vascularization decreases the rate of carbon dioxide removal from the tumor tissue. Increased levels of carbon dioxide in turn leads to increased levels of carbonic acid the formation of which is catalyzed by carbonic anhydrase. These factors reduce the pH of the environment surrounding the cells from a pH of 7.3 7.4 found in normal cells to pH 6.4 6.8.

The lower pH environment in neoplastic cells causes the administered formula I compound e.g. 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol to migrate towards intercellular interstitial acidic fluid and also increases the affinity of 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol for the cholesterol receptors. This increased affinity in combination with the reduced cholesterol concentration present in the fluid surrounding tumor cells leads to specific irreversible binding of the compound to the receptor. In the case of 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol binding is mediated by the three highly hydrophilic hydroxyl groups interacting with carbonyl groups of the receptor. The positions 3 5 6 hydroxides further provoke distortion of the membrane layers and the ethyl group at position 24 plays the role of a check valve fixing the hydrophobic tail between the two lipidic layers.

In addition to binding the receptors directly 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol alters the three dimensional structure of remaining unbound cholesterol receptors through distortion of the lipid bilayer. This alteration is sufficient to prevent adsorption of cholesterol molecules. The distortion of the lipid bilayer has other effects as well. The permeability and the fluidity of the bilayer membrane is also reduced thus decreasing passive mediated and active diffusion across the membrane. This alteration can further decrease nutrition level of tumor cells.

Sterol feedback control mediated by sterol regulatory element binding proteins SREBPs exerts the primary regulation on HMG CoA reductase activity at the transcriptional level. Secondary regulation and non sterol isoprenoid mediated fine tuning of reductase activity occurs at the levels of reductase translation and degradation. Reductase activity in tumors is elevated and resistant to sterol feedback regulation to aberrant SREBPs activity. Tumor reductase remains sensitive to 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol post transcriptional down regulation.

Treating a Neoplasm by Inhibition of HMG coA Reductase and Specific Inhibition of Cholesterol Uptake into Neoplastic Cells.

The invention also provides a method of treating a neoplasm by administering to a patient a compound or combination of compounds that inhibits HMG CoA reductase and prevents uptake of cholesterol into neoplastic cells. Compounds that inhibit HMG CoA reductase are known in the art and include atorvastatin cerivastatin fluvastatin lovastatin pravastatin and simvastatin. An exemplary compound that inhibits cholesterol uptake is 7 ketocholesterol.

Investigations were carried out on immunocompromised laboratory mice with experimentally induced large B cell lymphoma using hematological immunological biochemical anatomical and cytological methods. Two groups of 15 mice were employed. In the first group 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol was administered orally daily at a dosage of 5 mg kg. The second group served as the control. The following parameters of therapeutic efficacy were compared dynamics of LDH activity in the blood plasma content of total protein and general clinical blood test results. As a reference the results in mice having experimentally induced large B cell lymphoma and healthy mice are shown in Table 2

The dynamics of therapeutic measures with the use of 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol showed significant changes in chosen parameters Table 3 . The total content of protein in the blood serum and the hemoglobin concentration are increased. At the same time a decrease in LDH activity in the blood plasma and in the number of lymphocytes was observed . LDH activity in blood plasma in diseased mice treated with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol decreased 42.3 by the sixteenth day of treatment and in some animals LDH reached the level of healthy animals.

By day 16 of the study significant differences in body weight of animals between the groups were observed in mice treated with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol there was a tendency to a gain in mass .

An autopsy investigation revealed no differences between animals with lymphoma treated with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol and healthy mice. Liver kidney and spleen tissues showed no differences . In contrast in three animals receiving no medication displayed macroscopic morphological changes .

Immunocompromised mice were used for this experiment. Mice were inbred in a sterile environment and fed ad libitum. Four groups of 40 mice weighing approximately 20 g each range 17 25 g were used for each tumor type. The human tumor cell lines used were the following large B cell lymphoma squamous cell carcinoma of the lung ductal carcinoma breast and adenocarcinoma of the lung. A suspension of tumor cells was injected in the peritoneum of immunocompromised mice. Following this mice were examined and weighed daily. After 6 8 days we observed the development of abdominal carcinomatosis and ascitis. At day 18 we observed the development of an abundant ascitis which increased the weight of the mice by approximately 20 g. At that time mice were divided into four groups of 10. One group of 10 mice was used as control and did not receive any medication. The other three groups were treated respectively with 4 2 and 0.8 mg kg day of 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol administered orally for 10 days. Assessment of tumor cell concentration in the ascitis and abdominal metastases were measured on day 18 and every 2 days thereafter.

In all mice prior to treatment we observed an increase in LDH ESR 100 and a decrease in the hematocrit. Control untreated mice all died between day 21 and day 25 in all tumor types. Dead mice were examined and showed abdominal carcinoinatosis associated with lymph nodes and liver metastases.

Furthermore we observed in most of the treated mice 1 a rapid response to therapy ascitic regression within 1 2 days 2 a total clearance of tumor cells associated with an important tumor lysis 3 a normalization of hematological abnormalities and 4 an improvement in the general condition. Additionally we observed a three month survival without recurrence in mice that exhibited a complete response.

A 45 year old male patient presented with a metastatic renal cell carcinoma stage IV including an 8 cm tumor in the left kidney associated with multiple bilateral lung metastases 1.5 2 cm size . Pathology revealed a sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma grade 4 4 . A left nephrectomy was performed followed by interferon therapy for 6 weeks. Two months later a chest CT scan reveals persistence of one metastatic deposit 1 cm in size in both lungs. At this point the patient is administered 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol 80 mg day . Six weeks later a chest CT scan reveals a disappearance of the left lung metastasis. Eight months later another chest CT scan revealed one 1 mm nodule in the right lower lobe. One year after commencing therapy the chest CT scan appeared normal.

A 75 year old male patient presented with hormone resistant metastatic prostate cancer. He had previously been treated with three courses of chemotherapy Navelbine Taxotere but his PSA was still increasing. Administration of 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol was commenced 70 mg day .

A 46 YO female patient with a past medical history of anemia and mild chronic renal failure due to retroperitoneal fibrosis presented with a stage IV poorly differentiated lobular carcinoma of the right breast and liver spleen and bone metastases. After many hormonal treatments with tamoxifen zoladex and arimidex she had a liver progression. Treatment with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol was commenced 60 mg day . Three days after treatment we observed a decrease in LDH level from 450 to 204. Five months after treatment commenced liver enzymes including LDH returned to normal and her markers decreased as shown in Table 6 

A 49 year old female patient presented with uterine cancer stage IIB. She previously received cisplatin based chemotherapy and radiotherapy. A pelvic MRI showed a recurrent 3.2 cm pelvic mass retroperitoneal lymph nodes. A cervical biopsy confirms the recurrence.

Administration with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol was commenced 60 mg day . Within three months the tumor had disappeared on clinical exam and abdomino pelvic CT scan.

A 67 year old female patient with presented with a left squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. She commenced therapy with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol 50 mg day and experienced a drastic and rapid improvement in her general condition. Seven months later the patient received radiotherapy to the left lung. Nine months after commencing treatment the patient has considerable improvement and significant regression of the left lung opacity with a persistence of a small stellate image around the left superior bronchus. Fourteen months after therapy commenced the patient fibroscopy is normal and the dose of 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol is reduced to 30 mg day. A fibroscopy later that year shows a compression on the left superior lobular bronchus and the dose of 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol is increased to 50 mg day. Nearly five years after commencement of therapy there is recurrence of the left lung tumor. The patient undergoes a left pneumonectomy and drug therapy is stopped but the tumor recurs and the patient dies.

A 26 year old male patient was diagnosed with a lung large cell adenocarcinoma metastatic to liver. He received chemotherapy with no success. The patient was administered 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol 70 mg day . He also had frequent hemoptysis and elevated LDH GGT and bilirubin. The course of the patient s biologic parameters during treatment are depicted in Table 7. In addition to these data GGT also fell to 31.

A 36 year old female patient presented with breast cancer stage IV with lung and bone metastases. She previously underwent a left radical mastectomy for a stage 2 colloidal mucinous adenocarcinoma Hormone receptors and c erb B were negative. She received adjuvant chemotherapy FAC followed by radiotherapy. Later a sternal bone metastasis appeared and was resected. The pathology revealed an adenocarcinoma with positive hormone receptors. She also developed lung metastases up to 4 cm size. She received chemotherapy with taxotere navelbine and pamidronate followed by tamoxifen. This treatment gave an almost complete response in the lungs. Tamoxifen was replaced by Femara. The patient received radiotherapy on the spine T4 and T1 2 and Zometa is administered along with Femara. However there is progression of bone metastases on bone scan and a chest CT scan reveals stable lung metastases.

Therapy with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol is commenced 60 mg day when the CA 15 3 marker was at 227 U. Zometa and Femara were continued and Decapeptyl was added to the treatment.

A 68 year old diabetic and insulin dependent male patient with a past history of lymphoma presented with a 3 cm tumor in the head of pancreas and a suspicion of hepatic metastasis. An open biopsy of the pancreas revealed a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Therapy with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol was commenced 50 mg day . The course of CA 19 9 is shown in Table 9.

Parenchymatous organs liver and kidneys received from mice with experimental lymphoma on the 15th day of observation and from mice treated with 24 ethyl cholestane 3 5 6 triol were taken for the histological analysis. Micropreparations were stained with hematoxilin eosin and examined by microscopy and .

All publications patent applications including U.S. Patent Application No. 60 741 725 filed Dec. 2 2005 and patents cited in this specification are incorporated herein by reference as if each individual publication or patent were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

