---

title: Cleaning fluid and methods
abstract: Cleaning fluids that include n-propyl bromide and an additive that includes a non-hazardous stabilizer component, a pH-balancing agent, an odor-controlling agent, or a combination thereof. Also included are a method for cleaning textile absorbers and removing extraneous substances therefrom using this and related cleaning fluids, such as by cleaning textile absorbers in a cleaning fluid that includes n-propyl bromide to remove a portion of the extraneous substances from the textile absorber, preferably wherein the cleaning fluid is substantially free of hazardous materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08100987&OS=08100987&RS=08100987
owner: 
number: 08100987
owner_city: Thomasville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060915
---
This application is a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT US2005 008454 filed on Mar. 15 2005 and a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 802 060 filed Mar. 16 2004 now abandoned the disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by express reference thereto in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention is directed to a cleaning fluid a method and an apparatus for cleaning fabrics and in particular cleaning fabrics with n propyl bromide based cleaning fluids to remove extraneous substances therefrom.

The desorption or removal of extraneous substances from fabrics is a prevalent industrial process. As used herein the term extraneous substance refers to any substance that becomes attached to or is absorbed by a fabric during the use of the fabric. Extraneous substances can include dirt industrial lubricants such as oils grease coolants water glycol and solvents as well as particulates. In the dry cleaning industry extraneous substances can include body oils and liquids as well as soil stains. As a result the current art contains a variety of different methods by which these substances are either removed from a fabric so that the fabric can be reused.

The steps that are used to separate extraneous substances from fabrics so that the fabrics can be cleaned or recycled for reuse must be chosen so that the desired results maximum cleaning and minimum waste generation are achieved. Optimization of cleaning inevitably results in a process that is specific to a particular waste stream that is the steps of that process will be dictated by the fabric and the composition of absorbed extraneous substance.

The minimization of waste generation on the other hand is dictated by those steps that will result in the cleanest materials. Further the goal of cleanest fabrics is often associated with the generation of harmful wastes to the environment.

In response to the need for a cleaning process that is simple effective and allows the cleaning and recycling of fabrics for reuse the present inventor developed a process described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 230 353 and 6 536 061. Although this process met existing needs it did not address the growing concern regarding typical dry cleaning fluids such as perchloroethylene. Because various local state and federal agencies consider these dry cleaning fluids to be hazardous wastes the use of them in a cleaning step necessitates their treatment and or disposal. Not only is hazardous waste disposal costly but it imposes significant requirements for careful handling in order to protect the environment. Perchloroethylene is also considered to be a health hazard to those that may become over exposed to its fumes if not properly handled and ventilated.

Furthermore common dry cleaning fluids oftentimes require the use of single to multiple industrial distillers to accommodate their high distillation points. These types of distillers consume significant energy resources and require careful monitoring.

Although cleaning methods thought to be environmentally friendly alternatives to dry cleaning exist these methods bring with them additional complications and disadvantages. For example the use of wet cleaning implicates the environmental regulation of water. Another cleaning method uses liquid carbon dioxide as an alternative to perchloroethylene. However this method requires the use of specially designed machines capable of handling the high pressure required to sustain liquid carbon dioxide.

Therefore there remains a need for a method and apparatus for removing extraneous substances from fabrics that is simple safe effective environmentally sound and energy conserving.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

According to its major aspects and briefly stated an embodiment of the present invention includes a method and system for removing extraneous substances from fabrics so that the fabrics can be cleaned or recycled for reuse. In the case of the fabrics recycle means that the fabrics are ready for reuse following application of the present process. Because some of the extraneous substances removed such as oil are also capable of being recovered and recycled in the case of these substances recycle may require further steps.

The present invention has industrial applicability because it enables the cleaning of various materials used for industrial processes so that these materials can be reused. For example such materials as shop cloths and oil absorbers can be effectively cleaned for reuse without the need to employ environmentally harmful cleaning agents. However this invention is in no way limited to this industrial applicability. For example the present invention may also be applied to the cleaning of clothes. The present process can be an alternative to common dry cleaning methods.

The main component of the system is a cleaning component. Fabrics bearing extraneous substances are cleaned through the use of a particular cleaning fluid. The specific cleaning steps are not critical to the process as long as the cleaning fluid used is n propyl bromide. Additionally the system can include an excess extraneous substance removal component that precedes the cleaning component so that less energy is spent cleaning the fabrics in the cleaning component. For the cleaning of clothing or normal garment cleaning this additional step is not usually required.

If the system includes the optional excess substance removal component excess extraneous substances such as oil and metal chips can be removed from the fabrics by gravity draining by mechanical squeezing by centrifuging or by the combination of these. For example these extraneous substances can be drained by placing oil absorbing materials into drums and allowing the substances to drain from the fabrics to the bottoms of the drums. Alternatively the extraneous substances can be drained by gravity into a sump. Additionally extraneous substances can be removed by manually wringing or squeezing the fabrics. The removed extraneous substances can then be pumped to a settling tank where they can be removed or recovered by various recovery techniques known in the art.

In the cleaning component of the present system the fabrics are cleaned by a cleaning technique which employs the cleaning fluid n propyl bromide. Although the cleaning technique is not critical a preferred technique is dry cleaning. For example the fabrics can be dry cleaned using an industrial dry cleaning machine. Additionally the dry cleaning machine can be a closed loop machine that is connected to a distiller a dry cleaning fluid tank for storing the dry cleaning fluid and a waste container. The fluid tank for storing the dry cleaning fluid is preferably closed and is preferably maintained at ambient temperature to minimize or avoid the need for refrigeration or heating equipment associated therewith. Through the use of a closed loop dry cleaning machine the cleaning fluid may be distilled and reused for multiple cycles. However it is also contemplated by the present invention that various cleaning apparatuses and methods can be used other than dry cleaning machines. If a closed loop dry cleaning machine is used the effluent from dry cleaning the fabrics is distilled to remove as much extraneous substance from the cleaning fluid as possible and to assure that the dry cleaning fluid when reused to dry clean the fabrics is as clean as possible. Although the use of one distiller is sufficient for the process of the present invention it is also contemplated that two distillers be used so that the cleaning fluid is distilled twice not only to ensure that the cleaning fluid is as clean as possible when it is reused but to ensure there is always sufficient cleaning fluid available for reuse in new cleaning batches. Preferably when two distillers are included these are arranged in sequence or as a two stage distillation process. The extraneous substance collected in the distiller apparatus is thereafter removed and handled appropriately depending on the type of extraneous substance.

In another embodiment the present invention can include an apparatus for cleaning materials using the cleaning fluid n propyl bromide. The apparatus can include a main rotating drum for receiving materials needing to be cleaned as well as cleaning fluid. The cleaning fluid is provided by a main holding tank that is in fluid communication with the drum. Below the drum can be included a multi level filter for separating any suspended particles from the cleaning fluid and resulting effluent from the dry cleaning cycle. The filter is housed within a container that collects the used cleaning fluid. The container is in fluid communication with a dry cleaning fluid reclamation system that includes a distiller connected to a water separator. The water separator is in fluid communication with the main holding tank so that the reclaimed cleaning fluid can be reused for additional dry cleaning cycles. Optionally a conduit joining the multi filter container and the distiller can include a lint and dye removal filter. Additionally the drum can include a vapor filtering system which facilitates drying of the cleaned materials.

A feature of the present invention is the use of a particular cleaning fluid that is an environmentally sound improvement over common cleaning products such as chlorinated solvents. The use of n propyl bromide is an advantageous alternative for chlorinated solvents such as perchloroethylene. This compound is extremely effective at separating oils and greases from oil absorbing materials such as polypropylene. Furthermore n propyl bromide leaves these materials with a fresher scent and a softer feel than the chlorinated solvents. N propyl bromide appears to be just as effective at removing stains and body oils for fabric and more effective at removing the types of oils found in industrial processes. More importantly n propyl bromide is not considered by federal and state agencies to be a hazardous substance. Accordingly users of this compound do not require all of the permits typically mandated by local state and federal agencies. This result greatly reduces compliance costs. Although n propyl bromide cost more to purchase per pound chlorinated solvents these additional costs are more than recouped by the decrease in energy costs required to incorporate n propyl bromide into the cleaning component of the present process. For example forty percent less energy is used when n propyl bromide is the cleaning fluid as when perchloroethylene is used. Since N propyl bromide is not considered a hazardous waste and this eliminates costly disposal fees. Moreover the properties of n propyl bromide are such that a shorter drying time is required for fabrics. Accordingly throughput of the fabrics is dramatically increased.

Another feature of the present invention is the optional component including the removal of excess extraneous substance. A considerable amount of extraneous substances can be removed from fabrics simply by allowing them to drain. Not only does excess extraneous substance drain readily from the fabrics but also particles and metal chips can be removed in this way. By minimizing the amount of residual lubricants and particles in the fabrics in this optional component of the present process more extraneous substance is recovered and the cleaning component is more effective in cleaning the fabrics for recycle.

The invention also encompasses a cleaning fluid that includes n propyl bromide and a pH balancing agent present in an amount sufficient to minimize the corrosiveness of the cleaning fluid. In a preferred embodiment this cleaning fluid is substantially free of hazardous materials. In another preferred embodiment the pH balancing agent includes a base or a buffer to minimize or reduce the acidity of the other components in the cleaning fluid. In a more preferred embodiment the pH balancing agent can include soda ash potassium carbonate or another potash containing material or any combination thereof. In another embodiment the ratio of pH balancing agent to n propyl bromide is from about 1 1 to about 1 20. In yet another embodiment the cleaning fluid further includes an odor controlling agent present in an amount sufficient to minimize or mask an undesired odor in the textile absorber or the cleaning fluid or both. In a preferred embodiment the odor controlling agent includes a sulphate. In a more preferred embodiment the sulphate includes N soya N ethyl morpholinium ethosulphate.

The invention also encompasses methods for removing extraneous substances from at least one textile absorber by cleaning each textile absorber in any of the cleaning fluids described herein to remove a portion of the extraneous substances from each textile absorber and separating an amount of cleaning fluid and the portion of extraneous substances from each cleaned textile absorber. In a preferred embodiment the cleaning fluid includes n propyl bromide that is substantially free of a hazardous stabilizer component. In one embodiment a non hazardous stabilizer component is further included in the cleaning fluid. In one embodiment the cleaning fluid is entirely free of any hazardous stabilizers.

In another aspect the invention further encompasses a method for removing extraneous substances from at least one textile absorber by dry cleaning each textile absorber in reused cleaning fluid including n propyl bromide which is at least substantially free of any hazardous stabilizer component to remove a first portion of extraneous substances from each textile absorber separating a first cleaning fluid portion and the first portion of extraneous substances from each dry cleaned textile absorber and distilling the first cleaning fluid portion to remove an amount of the first portion of extraneous substances therefrom. In this embodiment the distilled cleaning fluid contains less than about 15 extraneous substances preferably less than about 5 and more preferably less than about 1 of extraneous substances.

In other embodiments the method further includes initially physically removing excess extraneous substances from each textile absorber either by gravity or by centrifuging before the dry cleaning. In yet another embodiment the method further includes two sequential distillation steps. In various embodiments the cleaning fluid includes n propyl bromide free of hazardous stabilizers and optionally including one or more of a non hazardous stabilizer component odor controlling agent and a pH balancing agent.

In another embodiment the method includes circulating the cleaning fluid through a closed loop cleaning system so that a portion of the cleaning fluid contacts each textile absorber for dry cleaning in a dry cleaning zone wherein the closed loop cleaning system includes at least one component formed to include stainless steel nickel or copper on any surface that contacts the cleaning fluid. In a preferred embodiment the cleaning fluid is stored at ambient temperature.

The invention also encompasses dry cleaning machines for cleaning fabrics or other textile absorbers with an n propyl bromide type cleaning fluid that includes a housing a rotating drum enclosed in said housing a holding tank dimensioned to receive a quantity of dry cleaning fluid that is in fluid communication with said rotating drum a filter system in fluid communication with said rotating drum said filter system including a plurality of filters that are vertically arranged and that having decreasingly smaller filter pores from the highest filter to the lowest filter a vapor filtering system in fluid communication with said rotating drum said vapor filtering system including a fan a vapor filter a cooling coil and a steam heating coil wherein said fan said vapor filter said cooling coil and said steam heating coil are interconnected a dry cleaning fluid reclamation system that is in fluid communication with said rotating drum said dry cleaning fluid reclamation system including a distiller having a heating element that is in fluid communication with a chilling unit a water separator that is in fluid communication with said cooling coil said chilling unit and said holding tank and a controller for automating a dry cleaning machine said controller being operably connected to said rotating drum said holding tank said filter system said vapor filtering system said dry cleaning fluid reclamation system and said water separator.

Referring now to there are illustrated schematic diagrams and a flow chart of a method and apparatus for separating extraneous substances from fabrics according to the present invention. It is contemplated by the present invention that any type of fabric be it woven non woven natural or synthetic can be cleaned using the following method and apparatus. Furthermore it is also contemplated that any type of extraneous substance that typically attaches to or becomes absorbed by fabrics can be removed or desorbed by the following method and apparatus.

A goal of the present invention is cleaning and recycling in particular the present system cleans fabrics for reuse and allows for recovery and recycling of extraneous substances depending on what these substances are. The more effective the present system is the more extraneous substance it recovers i.e. for recycling and the cleaner the system gets the fabrics. Furthermore no hazardous waste is generated from the practice of the present invention. As discussed the main component of the present invention is the cleaning component. However an optional component to the present process is a removal component in which excess extraneous substance is removed from the fabrics. This optional component is directed to the separation of and recovery of extraneous substances from the fabrics. In the cleaning component the fabrics are cleaned using means and method for cleaning the fabrics so that these fabrics can be reused and the maximum amount of cleaning fluid can be recovered and also reused. Waste products can be significantly reduced if not altogether eliminated by using a particular kind of dry cleaning fluid.

The removal of excess extraneous substance is an optional component of the present invention and is not necessary to the practice of the invention. If the present system is employed to clean clothes this optional step is not required. However this component may be helpful in the case that industrial type fabrics are being cleaned. The desorption of extraneous substances such as oil and other industrial lubricants from absorbent type fabrics is a prevalent industrial process. Absorbent fabrics used in industrial settings include synthetic and natural woven and non woven fabrics which may come in the form of pads sheets shop cloths and tubular socks and which are customarily used in machine shops and metal fabricating plants to absorb spilled or leaking lubricants. Additionally the industrial uniforms used in these plants become soiled with similar extraneous substances. For convenience these fabrics will be referred to herein as textile absorbers. As used herein textile absorbers refer to fabrics and other manufactured products made from natural or manufactured fibers and filaments as well as yarns which have the ability to take up another material. Common textile absorbers include polypropylene polyester and cotton.

Accordingly by way of example illustrates this optional removal step. As shown textile absorbers are sometimes collected in barrels for a period of time prior to beginning the present process. While standing in barrels extraneous substances such as oil lubricants and solvents will drain down through a stack of textile absorbers pooling in the bottom of barrels . Textile absorbers at the top of the stack will be relatively free of excess extraneous substance those at the bottom will contain excess extraneous substance perhaps being soaked in it. The longer the barrels stand undisturbed the more extraneous substance will drain to the bottom.

Textile absorbers that are located near the top of the barrels can go directly into the cleaning component of the present process. Textile absorbers located near the bottom of the barrels can be placed on an elevated coarse grid over a collection basin to drain additional extraneous substance from them. The longer the textile absorbers are allowed to drain the less extraneous substance will have to be removed from the textile absorbers in the cleaning component of the present invention. Barrels of containers holding absorbers can include could plugs that can be removed to let the extraneous substances drain out. Alternatively textile absorbers located near the bottom of the barrels can be manually wrung or squeezed mechanically so as to remove excess extraneous substance before the textile absorbers enter the cleaning component of the present process.

Although the use of the elevated grid and collection basin is an optional feature of the present invention if used preferably a fine mesh grid is located below the elevated coarse grid . Extraneous substance drains through the coarse and fine mesh grids to the lower portion of the basin . Particles dirt metal chips and cuttings collect on fine mesh grid and can be removed in a variety of ways such as vacuuming. If the textile absorbers have been stored in barrels extraneous substance pooled in the bottom of the barrels can be poured directly into collection basin .

In order to further remove excess extraneous substances from the textile absorbers before entering the cleaning component of the present invention the textile absorbers can be centrifuged at a high speed in a centrifuge with a vertical axis of rotation. Preferably the centrifuge operates at about 900 to 1200 revolutions per minute RPM in approximately seven minutes the excess extraneous substances are removed. The textile absorbers have less than about 2 and preferably less than about 0.5 extraneous substances remaining.

From collection basin and from centrifuge the extraneous substances such as oil can then be directly shipped to a processing facility such as a refinery. Alternatively the extraneous substances can first be transferred to a recovery system. For example if the extraneous substance is made up mostly of oil the oil can be pumped through filters using pumps respectively to a settling tank . Filters remove additional particulate although some will collect on the fine mesh grid of collection basin and more will settle to the bottom of the basin .

In the settling tank the extraneous substances are allowed to stand so that fine particulate settles to the bottom as sludge while the fluid substances rise to the top. Water that has mixed with the extraneous substances tends to separate below these substances but above the heavier sludge. Settling tank is equipped with a pipe located within the upper region of the tank and in fluid communication with its interior. When the oil reaches a certain level it enters pipe and flows by gravity to a first barrel . Periodically the extraneous substances collected are pumped using pump through a bag filter to storage tank . Preferably filter is sized to capture solids having a particle size greater than or equal to approximately 200 microns.

Extraneous substances from lower elevations of settling tank drain to an evaporator . Heat from a heat source is applied to evaporator to remove water from these extraneous substances. Then the extraneous substances are skimmed from evaporator and drained to a second barrel . Periodically extraneous substances that are collected are pumped by pump to holding tank via bag filter .

The extraneous substances recovered from the textile absorbers and separated from both particulate by bag filter and from water by evaporator can thereafter be shipped to a refinery for further processing. Thereafter the partially cleaned textile absorbers can be introduced into the cleaning component of the present process for the removal of any remaining extraneous substances.

In the cleaning component of the present process clothing fabrics and textile absorbers alike can be cleaned through the use of n propyl bromide. As discussed the textile absorbers are optionally subjected to the removal of excess extraneous substances by gravity draining by gravity draining in combination with centrifuging by wringing or squeezing prior to being cleaned using n propyl bromide as the cleaning fluid. Alternatively the clothing fabrics and textile absorbers can be solely treated by the cleaning component. A commercially available form of n propyl bromide exists under the name TECHTRIDE which is sold for use in vapor degreasing. However this form of n propyl bromide contains various hazardous materials such as hazardous stabilizers that manifest in the form of hazardous still bottoms hazardous air pollutants or other hazardous residuals during the cleaning process and which require removal disposal and or other specialized treatment or licensing to even operate the equipment or the facility in which the equipment is operated. Hazardous stabilizers that are commonly used to stabilize n propyl bromide include one or more chemicals selected from the general groups of ethers phenols nitroalkanes epoxides benzotriazoles alcohols ketones acetals amines saturated hydrocarbons alkenes alkynes and esters. More specifically hazardous stabilizers that are known to be used with various conventional commercial n propyl bromide formulations to stabilize n propyl bromide include one or more of 1 3 dioxolane 1 2 epoxybutane 1 2 butylene oxide nitromethane t butanol tert butyl alcohol trimethoxymethane and methylal which although advantageous in degreasing processes are not necessary or helpful for the present process and are preferably intentionally excluded from the cleaning fluid. Some of these hazardous materials are hazardous only in sufficient amounts however in sufficiently small quantities these are not necessary hazardous and can be included in the invention.

Preferably the cleaning fluid is substantially pure n propyl bromide or consists essentially of n propyl bromide. As used herein substantially pure refers to a cleaning fluid that can contain about 100 of that cleaning fluid or that can also include other substances. Thus in one embodiment the cleaning fluid is substantially free and preferably entirely free of hazardous materials such as the hazardous stabilizers described above.

As used herein substantially free is typically understood to be less than about 3 weight percent preferably less than about 2 weight percent and more preferably less than about 1 weight percent of the undesired component. In a preferred embodiment the term substantially free refers to less than about 0.5 weight percent preferably less than about 0.15 weight percent and more preferably less than about 0.05 or 0.01 weight percent. As used herein completely free entirely free or free is understood to mean an absence of i.e. less than an analytically detectable amount of the hazardous component s .

The cleaning fluid may optionally include certain stabilizers in the case that the particular cleaning method and apparatus dictates it but such stabilizers are preferably non hazardous and include either stabilizers not discussed herein as being hazardous or that type of stabilizer but in an amount insufficient to pose an environmental hazard. In a preferred embodiment the cleaning fluid consists essentially of n propyl bromide and a non hazardous stabilizer component of one or more non hazardous stabilizers. In another preferred embodiment the cleaning fluid is substantially free of hazardous stabilizers whether or not a non hazardous stabilizer component is included.

In the application of fabrics not contaminated with oils the addition of one or more detergents or soaps is recommended to suspend particles so that they do not deposit back on the fabric. Also the addition of sizing or softening agents to give the fabric a softer and better feel can be employed. Perfuming agents or deodorizers could also be employed to improve the stain removal and odor of the fabrics. The cleaning fluid can have an undesirable odor due in part to oils and other extraneous substances that are removed from the textile absorbers and also due to in part to the n propyl bromide itself. To address any undesirable odors an odor controlling agent is added to the cleaning fluid preferably in an amount and of a type as needed to the cleaning fluid while disposed in the holding tanks. Thus the cleaning fluid can optionally but preferably also include an odor controlling agent that includes a perfuming agent deodorizer or any combination thereof. The odor controlling agent is preferably present in an amount sufficient to minimize or avoid or to mask undesirable odors. The odor controlling agent preferably includes one or more sulfates. In a preferred embodiment the odor controlling agent is N soya N ethyl morpholinium ethosulphate which is commercially available under the trade name FORESTALL . Any other suitable odor controlling agent can be included alone or in combination with N soya N ethyl morpholinium ethosulphate. Preferably small amounts of odor controlling agent in ratios of about 1 5 to 1 50 more preferably about 1 8 to 1 20 of odor controlling agent to n propyl bromide by weight. An exemplary ratio of odor controlling agent to n PB is about 1 12. In another embodiment about 0.5 ounces to 8 ounces of an odor controlling agent can be added at a time to the cleaning fluid. Including too high an amount of odor controlling agent may tend to decrease the cleaning power of the cleaning fluid so those of ordinary skill in the art will select suitable amounts to provide odor control without significantly reducing cleaning ability.

Various cleaning methods and apparatuses can be employed in this cleaning component and no particular cleaning technique is critical to the present invention. However by way of example a preferred cleaning technique is dry cleaning. In the case that dry cleaning is employed a preferred apparatus for dry cleaning is shown in . As illustrated fabrics containing extraneous substances can be cleaned in an industrial dry cleaning machine that has been modified for the present purposes. The dry cleaning machine can be controlled by a computer controller operating various components of the dry cleaning machine including temperature pressure the opening and closing of valves and the activation of pumps so that the operation can take place efficiently.

In particular the dry cleaning machine can include a rotating drum supported in a housing and that can be accessed by a door . The drum is capable of containing the various textiles that need to be washed. A source of dry cleaning fluid can be contained by a holding tank that is in fluid communication with the drum through line . Dry cleaning fluid can be introduced into drum by holding tank through the use of pump . Holding tank can further include for viewing the quality and quantity of the dry cleaning fluid.

Below the drum can be included a filter system having a plurality of filters . As shown the filters are arranged vertically and can include increasingly smaller pores from the highest filter to the lower most filter so as to more effective filter suspended solids within the used dry cleaning fluid. The filter system can further include a filter container for housing the filter system and for containing the filtered and used dry cleaning fluid. Between the drum and the filter system can be included a partition which can be opened and closed periodically depending on what stage in the dry cleaning process requires the draining and filtering of dry cleaning fluid. As further shown the filter container is in fluid communication with line and pump . Through the use of line dry cleaning solvent can either be returned to drum or sent to a dry cleaning fluid reclamation system which will be discussed further below. Additionally a lint and dye removal filter can be included along line for the purpose of further purifying the dry cleaning fluid during the dry cleaning process.

The rotating drum can also be in fluid communication with a vapor filtering system . This system can include a fan a vapor filter a cooling coil and a steam heating coil . These features can be interconnected with the drum through lines and . Further the cooling coil can be used to separate and condense the dry cleaning fluid from any other gas such as steam that is being circulated in the vapor filtering system . Accordingly the cooling coil can also be connected to a water separator through line . Although a number of different materials can be used for the cooling coil and the steam coil the coils can include nickel nickel plated or stainless steel coils as well as other metals not susceptible to chemical degradation resulting from the cleaning process.

The dry cleaning machine can also include a dry cleaning fluid reclamation system for purifying used dry cleaning fluid for reuse. As shown the reclamation system can include a single distiller that can include a temperature controlled heating element . The distiller can also include an access door that is employed when the distillers is in need of repair or cleaning. Further the distiller can include a window so that operators are aware of when repair and cleaning is necessary. The distiller can be in fluid communication with a chilling unit wherein the distilled dry cleaning fluid is condensed. Because other fluids such as water may be condensed along with the dry cleaning fluid the chilling unit can also be in fluid communication with the water separator through line . The condensed and separated dry cleaning fluid can be returned to the holding tank from the water separator through line .

In the first stage of the cleaning component fabrics including extraneous substances are placed inside the drum to undergo the washing cycle. Optionally a pillow designed to retain an amount of conditioning agents resulting in softer and better smelling fabrics can be added along with the fabrics needing to be washed. Depending on the weight of the fabrics needing to be cleaned an amount of dry cleaning fluid is pumped into the drum through line . This dry cleaning fluid can include pure n propyl bromide as well as reclaimed or distilled n propyl bromide. Although various amounts of cleaning fluid can be used for about 10 pounds of dry fabric needing to be cleaned about 10 to about 15 gallons of dry cleaning fluid can be used during the washing cycle. Accordingly about a 1 1 to about 1 1.5 ratio of pounds of dry fabric to gallons of dry cleaning fluid can be employed for the washing cycle. Once the dry cleaning fluid has been pumped from the holding tank into the drum line is closed and remains closed for the duration of the cleaning process. Various sized holding tanks can be employed. However for industrial purposes the use of a holding tank that can contain from about 160 gallons to about 240 gallons of dry cleaning fluid is helpful.

Where the cleaning fluid is substantially pure n propyl bromide or consists essentially of n propyl bromide it is preferable that the pH of the cleaning fluid is maintained in equilibrium with minimal fluctuation. The pH can be regularly monitored as frequently as needed to help maintain the pH. For example the pH of the cleaning fluid can be monitored at least once a week more preferably at least every other day and even more preferably at least daily in unstable situations as can be readily determined by those of ordinary skill in the art with the present discussion as guidance. Such monitoring may be warranted because the cleaning fluid can have a tendency to become acidic. This may be especially common for example when water from the water separator is also acidic relative to the cleaning fluid. As a result of this increased acidity the cleaning fluid may become acidic and less stable which tends to result in increased corrosiveness of the n propyl bromide and cleaning fluid that can damage and corrode valves piping seals and other parts in the dry cleaning equipment particularly certain types of metal and plastic parts.

To minimize or prevent pH fluctuations in the cleaning fluid particularly an increase in acidity a pH stabilizing agent is optionally but preferably added to the cleaning fluid. The pH stabilizing agent is typically a base or a buffer preferably a base. Any suitable base or buffer may be used to increase the pH i.e. decrease the acidity of the cleaning fluid. In a preferred embodiment the pH stabilizing agent is preferably sodium carbonate NaCO also known as soda ash potassium carbonate KCO or other potash containing material or a combination thereof. The pH stabilizing agent is preferably provided in any suitable form that will readily permit combination with the remainder of the cleaning fluid for example in liquid form. Where the pH stabilizing agent is a solid it can be combined to the cleaning fluid as a liquid by use of a liquid carrier such as in solution suspension or emulsion form. The pH stabilizing agent can also be provided in a readily dispersible solid form directly to the cleaning fluid for example as microspheres granules pellets or other particulate forms to facilitate dispersion.

The basic properties of the base or buffer e.g. potash or soda ash act to help neutralize acid and inhibit or prevent further acid formation in the cleaning fluid to minimize or prevent corrosive effects on certain metal or plastic components of the dry cleaning equipment. Preferably the pH stabilizing agent is added as needed to minimize or prevent degradation or corrosion of non resistant metal and rubber parts in the cleaning equipment. Typically the pH stabilizing agent is added in an amount sufficient to minimize or prevent an increase in acidity e.g. to prevent a decrease in pH of about 0.5 or more. Preferably the ratio of pH stabilizing agent to n propyl bromide is from about 1 1 to about 1 20 and more preferably in a ratio of about 1 2 to 1 10. In a more preferred embodiment the ratio is about 1 5. Including too high an amount of pH stabilizing agent may tend to decrease the cleaning power of the cleaning fluid so those of ordinary skill in the art may tend to select suitable amounts of pH stabilizing agent to modify the pH sufficiently to minimize or prevent corrosion or degradation problems with the cleaning equipment without including amounts so substantial as to significantly reducing cleaning ability. In any embodiment where the cleaning agent itself has a relatively high pH i.e. is more basic the pH stabilizing agent that is added to the cleaning fluid may be an acid or a buffer.

The pH stabilizing agent can be added when necessary. For example periodic testing of the cleaning fluid pH can be conducted after or even during cleaning cycles or a periodic dose can be provided. For example pH testing and or application of an additional sufficient amount of pH stabilizing agent can be added daily or after every one to eight cleaning cycles e.g. loads of textile absorbers . The timing and dose can be readily determined by those of ordinary skill in the art.

During the washing cycle which can preferably last from about 8 to about 10 minutes the fabrics become tumbled and washed. Simultaneously the partition between the drum and the filtering system can be opened so that the dry cleaning fluid is filtered by the filtering system during the wash cycle and then pumped back into the drum through line . At the end of the wash cycle the partition is closed and the drying cycle begins whereby the fabrics are rotated at varying speeds to remove any excess dry cleaning fluid. For example the rotating drum can be rotated successively at about 100 rotations per minute RPM at about 250 to about 300 RMP and at about 500 to about 550 RPM for about 5 to about 10 minutes so that the fabrics become completely dry. To facilitate the drying of the fabrics the vapor filtering system can be employed during the drying cycle. Upon engagement of the fan air starts circulating along a closed circuit passing successively through the drum the vapor filter the cooling coil and the steam heating coil . The steam heating coil can heat the air circulating through the loop to a temperature sufficient to evaporate and remove any remaining dry cleaning fluid from the fabrics. This temperature can vary depending on the amount of fabrics being cleaned and on whether the closed system is operated under any pressure. However the temperature can range from about 700 F. to about 160 F. in a typical drying cycle. The dry cleaning fluid extracted from the fabrics during this stage is condensed from the circulating air in the cooling coil and passes through line to the water separator .

Simultaneously with the drying cycle or after the drying cycle the used dry cleaning fluid that is collected in the filter container is pumped to the distiller so that the fluid can be reclaimed for reuse in other washing cycles. Once in the distiller the used dry cleaning fluid is heated by the heating element . Again the temperature within the distiller can vary based on differences in purity of solvent and in pressure of the system. However if the distiller is operated under about 3 to about 4 pounds of pressure the distilling temperature can be from about 70 F. to about 160 F. The resulting dry cleaning fluid vapors then pass to the chilling unit where the vapors are condensed and drain into the water separator . Because the dry cleaning fluid vapors and condensation may include water including a water separator is beneficial to obtaining a higher percentage of purified dry cleaning fluid. Once separated within the water separator the reclaimed dry cleaning fluid drains into the holding tank for further use. The distilled dry cleaning fluid preferably contains less than approximately 15 extraneous substances. Most preferably the distilled dry cleaning fluid contains less than approximately 5 extraneous substances.

Depending on the types of fabrics being cleaning variations can be made in the apparatus for preferred conditions. For example when dry cleaning the textile absorbers using n propyl bromide the distiller must be able to achieve a temperature between about 70 F. and about 150 F. to affect the phase separation. The distillation point of n propyl bromide varies depending on the amount the particular extraneous substance with which it is combined. It is understood that the temperature at which separation occurs will vary as a function of both the dry cleaning fluid used and the type of lubricant removed and therefore an artisan with ordinary skill would alter the temperature of the distiller accordingly.

As discussed the use of n propyl bromide is a particular feature of the present invention. This cleaning fluid is an environmentally sound and advantageous alternative to commonly used chlorinated solvents such as perchloroethylene. N propyl bromide is extremely effective at separating oils and greases from oil absorbing materials such as polypropylene. Furthermore n propyl bromide leaves these materials with a fresher scent and softer feel than the chlorinated solvents. N propyl bromide appears to be just as effective at removing common stains or stains on the fabric from body oils and more effective removing the types of oils found in industrial processes. More importantly n propyl bromide is not considered by federal and state agencies to be a hazardous substance and should be safer to operate by employees. Accordingly users of this compound do not need permits from federal and state agencies. This result greatly reduces compliance costs and permitting fees. Further the used filters and still bottoms from the present invention are not considered to be hazardous waste and can be more easily disposed.

Although n propyl bromide costs more to purchase by the pound than a majority if not all of chlorinated solvents and can cost as much as three times that of chlorinated solvents these additional costs are more than recouped by the decrease in energy costs required to incorporated n propyl bromide into the cleaning component of the present process. On average forty percent less energy is used when n propyl bromide is the cleaning fluid as when perchloroethylene is used. Additionally the use of n propyl bromide eliminates hazardous waste disposal costs. Moreover the properties of n propyl bromide are such that a shortened drying time is required for the oil absorbing materials. For example the distillation point of n propyl bromide when used in the dry cleaning process is between about 70 F. and about 160 F. whereas the distillation point of perchloroethylene is approximately 265 F. Accordingly the time needed to recycle the textile absorbers and other fabrics is dramatically reduced and throughput of the textile absorbers and other fabrics increased. Not only does the low distillation point of n propyl bromide save on energy costs but also it obviates the need for the use of industrial powered distillers. This lower distillation point also results in a safer working environment considering the process removes the need to operate equipment at extremely high temperatures or pressures. All of these advantages are even more beneficial where the cleaning fluid is substantially pure n propyl bromide or consists essentially n propyl bromide substantially free of hazardous stabilizers.

The equipment can be adapted to include a pressure adjustment device which can be for example a dial button s or electronic adjustment device to permit modification of the pressure in the cleaning device. For example each step up or down in pressure could result in about 10 to 25 percent change in pressure. It is also possible to arrange for each increment of pressure to adjust the pressure by about 1 10 to pound. Too much pressure or too quickly a change in pressure can undesirably cause foaming or boiling of the cleaning fluid. Without being bound by theory it is believed that the pressure depends in part on one or more of the amount of solvent being used the amount of textile absorbers being cleaned and the amount of extraneous materials present therein. Therefore the pressure adjustment device can be adapted to limit the rate of change in pressure within the distilling portion of the apparatus. Preferably the pressure adjustment device includes a display to illustrate the pressure and more preferably also the temperature in the cleaning device particularly during operation to facilitate adjustment of the pressure.

Another advantage of n propyl bromide over perchloroethylene is that n propyl bromide is much less dense than perchloroethylene. Preferably the cleaning fluid of the present invention is substantially free more preferably entirely free of perchloroethylene. N propyl bromide weighs about 11 pounds per gallon whereas perchloroethylene weighs about 13.5 pounds per gallon which is roughly 20 greater. Accordingly there is less stress on the dry cleaning machine when the same amount of n propyl bromide is used as when perchloroethylene is used. However because n propyl bromide is closer to the density of water the separation of n propyl bromide from water becomes more difficult. A variety of water separators can be employed. For example the present invention can include a water separator having a settling reservoir that is in fluid communication with internal collection pipes that are oriented so as to divert the water layer that will form typically the top layer from the cleaning fluid layer that will form or the bottom layer. However these pipes must be spaced farther apart than pipes used in perchloroethylene dry cleaning machine. Further sudden changes in temperature can cause the n propyl bromide to fizz and bubble. Therefore the water separator should be larger than typical water separators found in standard dry cleaning machines.

Still another advantageous property of n propyl bromide is that it evaporates at a lower temperature than perchloroethylene. This is particularly the situation where the cleaning fluid is substantially pure n propyl bromide or consists essentially of n propyl bromide substantially free of hazardous stabilizers. Consequently fabrics require a shorter drying time between about 5 minutes to about 10 minutes as opposed to 30 minutes to 60 minutes with perchloroethylene. However because of the chemical properties of n propyl bromide certain precautions can be taken to improve the durability of the dry cleaning machine . For example the sealants on the access doors described can be treated with a surfactant that repels the n propyl bromide and prevents it from dissolving the sealant material. Alternatively the door sealants can be made of plastic which is resistant to the n propyl bromide. Additionally the piping coils tanks and any other parts of the cleaning equipment can preferably be made of stainless steel copper or nickel which are less susceptible to corrosion by n propyl bromide. Stainless steel is preferred. Other n PB resistant materials may be used in place of these if desired.

Holding tank can be modified from that of conventional dry cleaning machines. The tank of conventional machines has partitions to define compartments for separating the n propyl bromide into batches. In the present tank the partitions can be removed or modified so that the compartments communicate with each other and if needed the tank is enlarged so that more n propyl bromide is available for each load of fabrics.

Other modifications include replacement of pumps with larger capacity pumps and replacement of smaller electrical solenoid addition valves with pneumatic stainless steel ball valves. In to these changes the dry cleaner s internal lint filter is also removed. An example of an industrial dry cleaner capable of use with the present invention is the Columbia ILSA 80 lb. Dry Cleaning Machine manufactured in Italy US HQ New York or the Union U 2000 L Series in the 80 pound capacity size manufactured by Union Drycleaning Products of East Point Ga.

At the end of the dry cleaning process cleaned fabrics and textile absorbers are folded and packaged in clean plastic bags for return to the owner. Extraneous substances collected by either the filters or the distiller can thereafter be forwarded for further processing and possible reuse if appropriate for the type of extraneous substance. Preferably the cleaning equipment can be adapted and configured so that a single distiller or pair of distillers not shown can be operatively associated with a plurality of dry cleaning circuits e.g. one distiller device linked through piping to multiple rotary drums holding tanks or the like. Waste from various sources such as extracted from the distilling apparatus and the extraneous materials removed from the textile absorbers can be sent to treatment facilities for processing and disposal or recycling.

The term consisting essentially of as used herein in some embodiments is intended to minimize or exclude hazardous air pollutants HAPs or other hazardous stabilizers that are found in conventional commercial forms of n propyl bromide such as TECHTRIDE . Although the term dry cleaning typically refers to cleaning in the absence of water as used herein it is intended to mean that the cleaning fluid is substantially free of added water i.e. that not present in any components in the cleaning fluid e.g. as a pH stabilizing agent preferably free of water.

The term about as used herein should generally be understood to refer to both numbers in a range of numerals. Moreover all numerical ranges herein should be understood to include each whole integer within the range. Further unless otherwise noted where applicable all quantity percentage amounts are weight percent as opposed to volume percent.

While illustrative embodiments of the invention are disclosed herein it will be appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art. Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments that come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

