---

title: Adaptive material actuators for Coanda effect circulation control slots
abstract: A system and method of use are provided for introducing tangential control fluid flows along the surface of an aerodynamic member. The fluid flows are directed toward a coanda surface disposed at the trailing edge of the aerodynamic member. At least two injection slots are provided on opposite sides of the aerodynamic member to produce opposing forces. Control of the flow of fluid from each slot determines the net effect of these opposing forces. Smart material actuators are used to control the flow of fluid from each slot by varying the size of each slot.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07861977&OS=07861977&RS=07861977
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07861977
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060313
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention is directed to a system for introducing tangential control fluid flows along the surface of an aerodynamic member.

The fluid flow or flow field around lifting surfaces such as aircraft wings and helicopter rotor blades determines the pressure distribution over these surfaces and therefore determines the resulting aerodynamic forces and moments acting upon such surfaces. Modification and control of those forces is achieved through modification and control of the flow field.

In fixed wing applications the common method for controlling the flow field involves the use of a movable trailing edge surface i.e. a wing flap . Moving the trailing edge surface or flap downward increases both the camber and the angle of attack of the fixed wing increasing the negative pressure distribution along the upper surface of the fixed wing. This increase in negative pressure increases lift.

The traditional use of mechanical flaps however requires the use of a hydraulic actuator or actuators increasing both weight and mechanical complexity. In addition these mechanical systems have a relatively long response time inhibiting rapid movement of the trailing edge surface. These limitations prohibit the use of movable trailing edge surfaces in applications where the wing moves and is not fixed i.e. in helicopter rotor blades . In the case of helicopter rotor blades the rate of rotation of the rotor blade is several rotations per second or more and mechanically actuated movable trailing edges cannot respond rapidly enough.

The limitations associated with movable trailing edges in both fixed and rotating wing applications led to the development of alternate methods for controlling the fluid flow around aerodynamic members. One such development involves the blowing of air tangentially along a surface of the wing from one or more slots disposed along that surface. This tangential discharge of gas energizes the fluid flow in the vicinity of the surface of the wing i.e the boundary layer to inhibit flow separation and the associated adverse stalling effects. In addition the lift generated by the wing is increased. An increase in lift is realized from the Coanda effect.

The use of the Coanda effect increases the circulation about an aerodynamic control surface above the level that would otherwise be attainable. This is accomplished by using an airfoil shape with a rounded trailing edge. Fluid injected tangent to the surface in the downstream direction through slots on one side of the airfoil near the trailing edge tends to flow around that edge the circulation about and therefore the lift produced by the airfoil is increased dramatically. This effect was first observed by Henri Coanda in 1910.

Employing the Coanda effect on control surfaces attached to a vehicle has a number of potential benefits including reduced overall drag and improved maneuverability. These benefits are due to the lift coefficients that are achievable with the Coanda effect. Whereas standard control surfaces using angle of attack to achieve lift may yield maximum sectional lift coefficients in the range of 0.8 1.0 control surfaces employing the Coanda effect may achieve lift coefficients in the range of 2.0 3.0 or greater.

For example the trailing edge of the wing is formed as a smoothly curved surface and the air discharged from the slots follows the smoothly curved surface until the balance between the pressure variation normal to the surface of the wing and the centrifugal force exerted on the discharge of air is lost. The end result is a modification of the pressure distribution along the surface of the wing that is equivalent to the changes created by a mechanical flap. Therefore the discharge of air along the surface of a wing is an alternative to a movable trailing edge.

Mechanical flaps and the resulting changes in lift are controlled by extending and retracting the flap. When air flow is used control is achieved by varying the flow rate of the air or the direction in which the air is being discharged which is known as vectoring. Typically both variable flow rates and vectoring are used as control mechanisms. Therefore systems and methods were developed to provide the necessary control over flow rate and vectoring in particular under real time flight conditions or in rotor blade applications.

A typical system used to control the air flow included a chamber filled with pressurized air. The pressurized air was discharged through a slot disposed adjacent or near the trailing edge of the wing such that the discharged air would travel tangent to the surface of the wing and around the smooth trailing edge. The flow of air out of the slots could be controlled for example using a screw mechanism to adjust the size of the slot opening. Another controlling factor of air flow is the pressure of the compressed air inside the chamber. Therefore the flow rate of the compressed air out of the slot opening increases with increasing pressure in the chamber and decreases with decreasing pressure in the chamber.

The systems used to modify the air flow rate still had a relatively slow response time especially as the size of the system increased. For example modification of the flow about a wing requires a change in the size of the slot opening. When the slot opening is increased the pressure inside the chamber needs to be increased which requires a substantial amount of time. Conversely reducing the slot size requires a reduction of the pressure inside the chamber. Pressure reduction is accomplished by bleeding pressure from the chamber which again takes a significant amount of time to accomplish. Another complicating factor involves the inaccuracies involved in measuring pressure within the chamber.

Other attempts to control the air flow have used camming systems to alter the size of the slot opening mechanically. Such systems however are too bulky for many applications and do not significantly improve the response time of the system. Additional limitations of systems used to control the flow of air around the wing surface include the inability to control the airflow independently at different points along the slot or along the length of the wing. Therefore the air flow out of the slot cannot be varied as a function of position along the wing.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 791 601 and 6 142 425 are directed to an apparatus and methods for aerodynamic blowing control using smart material actuators. A source of compressed air is provided that communicates with one or more slots or other outlets at a selected location on an aerodynamic member so that air can be blown from the slots or outlets. The characteristics of the blowing including activation and deactivation the magnitude and the direction of the blown jet are controlled by a valve or nozzle mechanism adapted to interrupt or otherwise affect the compressed air stream provided to the slot. The valve or nozzle in turn is activated and controlled through the use of a smart material actuator such as for example a piezoelectric bender. In general the valve or nozzle is formed by aligning corresponding slots or holes in two concentric cylinders or spheres. Therefore maintaining proper alignment between the corresponding holes is important for providing the desired or calibrated control of the air flow over the aerodynamic member. In addition the concentric members create a possible source of energy dissipating friction that could result in system failure. The method by which fluid is injected uses two concentric cylinders or spheres rotated relative to one another by smart materials.

For full control a control surface needs to be able to produce forces in opposite directions. To produce these opposite forces using the Coanda effect the control surface would have ejection slots on both sides of the control surface and would control the amount of air being ejected through the slots on each side. Prior solutions use separate plumbing and valving for each side or even each slot. This adds complexity to the design and places restrictive lower limits on the size of control surfaces.

Therefore the need exists for a system to control the flow rate and vectoring of fluids ejected along an aerodynamic member with a response time that is suitable for use with rotating aerodynamic members and that reduces or eliminates friction between moving surfaces. Suitable systems will provide for the variation of flow with both time and location along the length of the aerodynamic member. In addition full control will be accomplished by producing opposite forces using the Coanda effect.

Exemplary methods and systems in accordance with the present invention employ the Coanda effect for control of the flow field around an aerodynamic member such as a fixed wing or a rotating wing. An airfoil or aerodynamic member having a rounded trailing edge is used. Suitable aerodynamic members include fixed wings propeller blades helicopter rotors and ducts. As the ambient fluid through which the airfoil is moving flows past the airfoil a control fluid is introduced tangent to the surface of the airfoil in a generally downstream direction through one or more slots disposed on the airfoil near the trailing edge. The control fluid flows around the trailing edge producing a resulting force in the direction of the side from which the fluid was introduced. The resulting force is proportional to the momentum of the injected fluid over a wide range of speeds and flow rates.

In one embodiment to control the flow rate of the control fluid injection slots are provided on opposite sides of the airfoil surface and the control fluid is introduced simultaneously through the slots on either side. In particular the injection slots are located near the trailing edge coanda surface on either side of the aerodynamic member e.g. on the top and bottom surfaces of a fixed wing. The required plumbing is minimized by plumbing the aerodynamic member only once.

Therefore the injection slots located on either side of the aerodynamic member are in communication with a single common pressurized chamber or injection fluid filled plenum.

The flow of control fluid is switched or varied between the injection slots located on either side of the aerodynamic member. Preferably switching between the injection slots is accomplished locally at the aerodynamic member. The control fluid flow rate is constant and the amount of control fluid being ejected out of each slot is controlled by adjusting the size of the slots locally. The sizes of the injection slots are adjusted using smart or adaptive material actuators for example piezo electric materials or shape memory alloys.

In one embodiment a chamber or channel is provided along the trailing edge of the aerodynamic member and a moveable member is disposed generally centrally in the channel to define the injection slots between the moveable member and the sides or edges of the channel. The moveable member is in communication with the smart material actuator. The smart material actuator is capable of moving the moveable member within the channel. Alternatively other types of actuators can be used to move the moveable member. This movement changes the size of the injection slots. Alternatively a stationary member is provided disposed in the channel and the edges or lips of the channel are moved relative to the stationary member to change the size of the slots. In addition valves internal to the lifting surface or disposed within the channel are provided in communication with the slots which are formed between the stationary member and fixed edges or lips of the channel. These valves are used to direct the flow between slots located on opposite sides of the aerodynamic member.

The control fluid is introduced into the channel under pressure and exits through the injection slots defined between the moveable member and the edges or sides of the channel. By injecting control fluid through a first slot in excess of the control fluid flow through a second slot disposed on an opposite side of the aerodynamic member a net force towards the side of the aerodynamic member containing the first slot is created. Systems in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention reduce system weight and volume and increase response speed over conventional systems that use valves and separately plumbed sides.

Exemplary systems and methods for controlling the flow field around an aerodynamic member in accordance with the present invention utilize a single plenum or chamber to hold a control fluid used to control the flow field reducing the overall weight and volume of the system. In addition the fluid injection pumps that are used to deliver and pressurize the control fluids are operated at a constant output reducing the noise associated with the system. Embodiments of the flow field control system of the present invention that utilize smart material actuators eliminate the need for conventional control valves and provide for a control system that has a quick response time. In general systems and methods in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention are capable of controlling gas or fluid flows of all densities and compressibilities at relatively high rates.

Referring initially to an exemplary embodiment of a system for controlling the flow field around an aerodynamic member in accordance with the present invention is illustrated. Systems in accordance with the present invention can be used to control the flow field around a variety of aerodynamic members . Suitable aerodynamic members include but are not limited to the wings and control surfaces of fixed wing aircraft rotating wings the fuselage sections of the aircraft the control surfaces of submarines and other watercraft the control and body surfaces of rockets and missiles propeller blades and helicopter rotor blades.

Systems and methods in accordance with the present invention can also be applied for blowing control in industrial applications such as spray painting and gas burner injection. As illustrated the system is applied to the wing of a fixed wing aircraft however this embodiment is shown for illustrative purposes only and the present invention is not limited to fixed wing aircraft applications.

At least one chamber channel or plenum is provided in the aerodynamic member . The system can include a plurality of chambers. The common chamber is disposed in the aerodynamic member and is capable of containing a pressurized control fluid. The common chamber is used to supply the injection fluid to all locations or ports within the system.

The injection fluid is chosen to be compatible with the aerodynamic member and the ambient conditions in which the aerodynamic member moves i.e. air or water. Suitable injection fluids include but are not limited to air water liquid mists inert gases a reactant gas a heated or cooled gas a carrier gas for other gases liquids solid particles and combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the injection fluid is air which is readily available and easy to distribute. The injection fluid is pressurized using a compressor or pump not shown and is delivered to the chamber through one or more pipes or conduits . Alternatively the injection fluid is provided from a pressurized container such as a tank or lecture bottle that is attached to the delivery pipe . The injection fluid is pressurized to a pressure suitable to provide the desired flow of injection fluid.

The pressurized compressed injection fluid is delivered to the chamber and held until ejected through one or more slots that are in communication with the chamber and disposed generally near a trailing edge of the aerodynamic member . The trailing edge is generally defined as the edge of the aerodynamic member opposite from the direction in which the aerodynamic member is moving. The injection fluid is ejected from the chamber through the slots generally in the direction indicated by arrow A. At the trailing edge the injection fluid follows the coanda surface located at the trailing edge until centrifugal force causes separation of the injection fluid stream from the surface of the aerodynamic member . The movement of the injection fluid along the coanda surface shifts the stagnation points along the aerodynamic member and modifies the air flow patterns about the aerodynamic member to control its aerodynamic characteristics.

Referring to the aerodynamic member includes a first side surface and a second side surface that is generally disposed opposite the first side surface. In an embodiment when the aerodynamic member is oriented as for example a fixed wing or rotor blade the first surface corresponds to a top surface and the second surface corresponds to a bottom surface. The control fluid is introduced tangentially to the first and second surfaces through the apertures or slots that extend along the entire length or span of the first and second surfaces see .

In one embodiment a single slot extends along the length of the first surface and the second surface . Alternatively a plurality of discrete slots ports or nozzles are disposed along the first and second surfaces each slot in communication with the chamber . In general the length of the slot varies in accordance with the demands of a specific application.

In addition the shape or cross section of each slot can vary. The slot is an elongated slot however other suitable shapes for the slot include but are not limited to a plurality of small holes or a series of short slots. Each slot can be a simple orifice or opening or can contain an injection nozzle check valve or other suitable plumbing fittings.

The system includes a first injection slot in communication with the chamber and disposed on the first side of the aerodynamic member adjacent the trailing edge . In addition the system includes a second injection slot in communication with the common chamber and disposed on the second side of the aerodynamic member adjacent the trailing edge . The first side may be the top side of the aerodynamic member and the second side may be the bottom side of the aerodynamic member . Injection fluid discharged from a first injection slot travels along the coanda surface at the trailing edge in a direction as indicated by arrow B. Injection fluid discharged from the second injection slot travels along the coanda surface at the trailing edge in a direction as indicated by arrow C.

The system also includes a control mechanism to distribute the flow of the pressurized control fluid from the chamber through the first and second injection slots. By controlling the flow of control fluid between the first and second injection slots the net resultant force on the aerodynamic member is controlled.

In one embodiment as illustrated in the chamber includes an opening adjacent the trailing edge of the aerodynamic member and a moveable member is disposed in that opening. The moveable member is cylindrical in shape and has a generally circular cross section however the moveable member can be formed in any shape suitable to form the coanda surface at the trailing edge of the aerodynamic member .

The first injection slot is formed between the moveable member and a first edge or lip of the chamber opening. In addition a second injection slot is formed between the moveable member and a second edge or lip of the chamber opening. Variation of the size and shape of the each one of the injection slots is accomplished by moving the moveable member in the opening with respect to the first and second edges of the chamber opening. This includes moving the moveable member into and out of the chamber and moving the moveable member up and down in the direction indicated by arrow D.

In one embodiment the system includes at least one actuator in contact with the moveable member . As illustrated in the system can include a plurality of actuators in communication with the moveable member . Any actuator capable of moving the moveable member in the direction of the first edge or second edge movement direction D to adjust the size of the first injection slot and the second injection slot can be used. Suitable actuators include mechanical actuators.

The actuator can be a smart material actuator such as a piezo electric actuator or a shape memory alloy actuator. As used herein a smart material refers to any substance or material in a solid state that can be used to generate a straining of the substance by means other than mechanical loading. Smart materials include but are not limited to piezo electric materials elecrostrictive materials magnetostrictive materials and shape memory alloys. Shape memory alloys are materials that strain when a microstructural phase change and consequent shape deformation is produced through a temperature change. These materials generally exhibit a large deformation but have large time constants. Magnetostrictive materials are materials that strain or deform when a magnetic field is applied. Electrostrictive materials deform under the influence of an electric field and piezo electric materials deform when a control voltage is applied.

These smart materials are used in smart material actuators which refers to any device that utilizes a smart material or a combination of smart materials to achieve a controlled change in the dimensions or shape of the actuator under the effect of a non mechanical input for example electric fields control voltages magnetic fields and temperature fields .

Any suitable arrangement for a smart material actuator can be used as the actuator in communication with the moveable member . As illustrated the actuator includes a control arm portion fixedly connected at one end to the moveable member extending through the chamber and anchored to a smart or adaptive material base .

The adaptive material base includes a supply voltage contact a source to earth ground contact and an actuation voltage contact . A sufficient voltage is applied to the adaptive material base and upon delivery of an actuation voltage the adaptive material deforms causing a change of shape in the adaptive material that is translated through the control arm to the moveable member to affect the desired change in the size of the first and second injection slots.

A control system is provided in communication with the actuator to control the actuation and movement of the moveable member to achieve the desired net force on the aerodynamic member or net change in the flow field. An applied voltage can be calibrated and associated against the movement or deflection of the moveable member . Then the desired movement is read from a look up table along with the associated applied voltage.

As illustrated in control of the actuator can be operated as a feedback type loop. As illustrated the desired force on the aerodynamic member is inputted and communicated to a force to position converter . The force to position converter determines the position of the actuator exemplifying actuators and necessary to achieve the desired force. This position is communicated to a module that compares the desired position with the current position of the actuator as communicated by a position sensor . The module communicates any necessary changes in the current position of the actuator to a controller which determines the necessary voltage to achieve that change and instructs a voltage generator to create that actuation voltage and deliver the voltage to the actuator .

Smart material actuators respond rapidly to the application or removal of actuation or control voltages. Therefore the injection fluid can be modulated rapidly which allows control systems in accordance with the present invention to be used for many different types of flow field applications including rotating wings and helicopter rotor blade applications.

In another embodiment the size of the first and second injection slots are varied by moving the sides or lips of the chamber. As illustrated in the chamber includes an opening adjacent the trailing edge and a stationary member is disposed in the opening. The stationary member is secured to an anchor structure extending through the chamber . Suitable arrangements and shapes of the stationary member are the same as for the moveable member including shaping the stationary member to provide a smooth coanda surface at the trailing edge . The first injection slot is formed between the stationary member and the first edge of the chamber opening. In addition the second injection slot is formed between the stationary member and the second edge of the chamber opening. Movement of the first and second edges with respect to the stationary member changes the shape and size of the first and second injection slots.

A first actuator is provided in communication with the first edge to move the first edge with respect to the stationary member for example in the direction of arrow F to adjust the size of the first injection slot . A second actuator is provided in communication with the second edge to move the second edge with respect to the stationary member for example in the direction of arrow E to adjust the size of the second injection slot . Suitable materials and control mechanisms for the first and second actuators are the same as for the actuator used in the moveable member embodiment.

Referring to in another embodiment internal valves are used instead of actuators to control the flow of injection fluid between the first and second injection slots. As illustrated the stationary member is provided in the opening of the chamber to create the first and second injection slots.

A three way control valve is used to control the flow of injection fluid from the chamber to the first and second injection slots. Alternatively a first control valve is used to control the flow of fluid to the first injection slot and a second control valve is used to control the flow of fluid to the second injection slot. Suitable methods for controlling the three way control valve and the first and second two way control valves are known and available in the art. In general the flow of injection fluid is controlled to achieve the desired net force on the aerodynamic member.

As illustrated the system is illustrated using two injection slots on either side of the aerodynamic member that run substantially the length of the surface of the aerodynamic member. However other embodiments and arrangements of slots are possible having variations in the number location shape orientation and size of the slots.

In accordance with an exemplary method for controlling the flow field around an aerodynamic member a control fluid flow is introduced simultaneously from at least two injection slots disposed on substantially opposite sides of the aerodynamic member adjacent or near the trailing edge. The rate at which the control fluid is introduced from each injection slot is controlled to produce a desired resultant force on the aerodynamic member. In general the control fluid is introduced tangential to the surface of the aerodynamic member to flow toward the trailing edge and around the coanda surface located at the trailing edge. The control fluid flow is introduced from the common chamber that is in communication with each one of the injections slots. The chamber contains the control fluid under pressure.

In order to control the rate of introduction of the control fluid through the injection slots the size of each injection slot is adjusted. In one embodiment the size of each injection is adjusted using a smart material actuator such as a piezo electric actuator to adjust the size of each injection slot. For example the smart material actuator is used to move the moveable member disposed in the opening of the control fluid filled chamber. The moveable member is moved between opposing edges of the opening to adjust the size of the injection slots.

Although illustrated for applications such as fixed wings for use in aircraft applications systems and methods in accordance with the present invention can be used in any application that requires a highly accurate low cost and reliable method of controlling the flow of control fluid from injection slots. These applications include fine steering corrections or adjustments for a submarine spray painting and generating a gas flame with improved burning efficiency.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

