---

title: Methods and apparatus for interfacing external systems with vehicle electronic systems
abstract: One embodiment is directed to providing access between external systems and embedded vehicle electronic systems. That is, an interface module may receive information from a system external to the vehicle, determine an embedded system of the vehicle to which to provide the information, and provide the information to the embedded system. Similarly, the interface module may receive information a embedded electronic systems of a vehicle, determine a system external the vehicle to which to provide the information, and provide the information to the external system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07809673&OS=07809673&RS=07809673
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07809673
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061121
---
The present invention relates to providing access between external systems and vehicle electronic systems.

The Global Information Grid GIG is a system to provide processing storage management and transport of information to support military and defense operations. The GIG supports the new network centric warfare doctrine of the military which is to facilitate the sharing of information among geographically dispersed forces.

The ultimate goal of the GIG is to link all operating locations including bases posts camps stations facilities mobile platforms and deployed sites. This is expected to increase information sharing collaboration and shared situational awareness which allows for a greater degree of synchronization and mission effectiveness.

One embodiment of the invention is directed to a method of providing access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle via an interface module comprising acts of receiving at the interface module information from a system external to the vehicle determining at the interface module at least one of the plurality embedded systems to which to provide the information and providing the information from the interface module to the at least one of the plurality of embedded systems.

Another embodiment is directed to an interface module for providing access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle comprising at least one external interface configured to receive information from a system external to the vehicle and at least one component to determine at least one of the plurality embedded systems to which to provide the information and provide the information from the interface module to the at least one of the plurality of embedded systems.

A further embodiment is directed to a method of providing access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle via an interface module comprising acts of receiving at the interface module information from at least one of the plurality of embedded systems determining at the interface module at least one system external to the vehicle to which to provide the information and providing the information from the interface module to the at least one system external to the vehicle.

Another embodiment is directed to a method of providing access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle via an interface module having an internal network and a plurality of components that communicate via the internal network wherein the components include at least one mission workflow component and at least one embedded system interface component. The method comprises acts of receiving at the interface module information from a system external to the vehicle determining at the at least one mission workflow component at least one of the plurality embedded systems to which to provide the information and providing the information from the interface module to the at least one of the plurality of embedded systems via the at least one embedded system interface component.

A further embodiment is directed to an interface module for providing access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle comprising an internal network configured to receive information from a system external to the vehicle and a plurality of components that communicate via the internal network the plurality of components comprising at least one mission workflow component configured to determine at least one of the plurality of embedded systems to which to provide the information and at least one embedded system interface component configured to provide the information from the interface module to the at least one of the plurality of embedded systems.

Another embodiment is directed to a method of providing access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle via an interface module having an internal network and a plurality of components that communicate via the internal network wherein the components include at least one mission workflow component and at least one embedded system interface component. The method comprises acts of receiving via the at least one embedded system interface component information from at least one of the plurality of embedded systems determining at the at least one mission workflow component at least one system external to the vehicle to which to provide the information and providing the information from the interface module to the at least one system external to the vehicle.

A further embodiment is directed to a method of providing access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle via an interface module having an internal network and a plurality of components that communicate via the internal network wherein each of the plurality of components is of a defined type wherein each type of component has a predefined interface wherein each component implements the predefined interface for its respective type. The method comprises acts of receiving at the interface module information from a system external to the vehicle determining at the interface module at least one of the plurality embedded systems to which to provide the information and providing the information from the interface module to the at least one of the plurality of embedded systems.

Another embodiment is directed to an interface module that provides access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle comprising an internal network that receives information from a system external to the vehicle and a plurality of components that communicate via the internal network and are configured to determine at least one of the plurality embedded systems to which to provide the information and provided the information from the interface module to the at least one of the plurality of embedded systems wherein each of the plurality of components is of a defined type wherein each type of component has a predefined interface wherein each component implements the predefined interface for its respective type.

A further embodiment is directed to a method of providing access to a plurality of embedded systems in a vehicle via an interface module having an internal network and a plurality of components that communicate via the internal network wherein each of the plurality of components is of a defined type wherein each type of component has a predefined interface wherein each component implements the predefined interface for its respective type and wherein the method comprises acts of receiving at the interface module information from at least one of the plurality of embedded systems determining at the interface module at least one system external to the vehicle to which to provide the information and providing the information from the interface module to the at least one system external to the vehicle.

Military and other vehicles typically have embedded electronic systems that are used for navigation communication instrumentation management and control of onboard systems e.g. engine control and weapons delivery and other functions. These systems may include for example the avionics of aircraft as well the electronic systems of terrestrial and marine vehicles.

Applicants have appreciated that the embedded electronic systems of a vehicle are typically tightly integrated with each other. That is such systems are typically designed to work together and frequently use specialized interfaces and or protocols to accomplish this. Tight integration of the embedded systems of a vehicle helps ensure that the different on board systems work together and helps to increase the safety and reliability of these systems which is particularly important in military applications. However such tight integration limits the ability of these systems to receive information from and provide information to off board external systems.

That is for example during a mission the embedded systems of a helicopter may have only the information loaded prior to the mission and any information obtained via the on board sensors. Thus the pilot is limited to the information brought with him on the mission information received from onboard sensors and any information that can be communicated to him by voice over the radio. The embedded systems of the helicopter may not be capable of receiving or processing updated satellite images of a target or updated intelligence information on the location of enemies or targets.

Applicants have appreciated that it may be useful in many situations to provide embedded electronic systems with the capability to operate with external networks so that updated information from external sources may be provided to the on board systems and so that the on board systems may provide information to external destinations. For example it may be useful to provide these systems with the capability to receive information from and provide information to the GIG.

Applicants have further appreciated that it is undesirable to make significant modifications to the existing embedded systems to enable them to communicate with external systems. As mentioned above the on board systems of a vehicle are tightly integrated by design to assist in assuring safety and reliability. Making significant modifications to these components may jeopardize their reliability and or may require lengthy security or safety re certifications. Further modifying a vehicle s existing electronic systems to incorporate network centric capabilities i.e. the capabilities to communicate with external networks may require making the same modifications to multiple components thereby requiring a duplication of effort.

Thus some embodiments of the invention are directed to an interface module that acts as an interface between a vehicles on board electronic systems and external i.e. off board networks and systems. Some embodiments may address the above described drawbacks of embedded electronic systems. However the invention is not limited in this respect as not every embodiment addresses every drawback described above and some embodiments may not address any of these drawbacks. Further it should be appreciated that the term vehicle as used herein includes any mobile carrier manned or unmanned such as airborne vehicles e.g. airplanes and helicopters terrestrial vehicles e.g. trucks tanks vans cars marine vehicles and or any combination thereof. The invention is not limited to use in military vehicles as some embodiments are equally suited for use in civilian vehicles.

In one embodiment shown in a vehicle includes embedded electronic systems and an interface module . The embedded electronic systems may include for example on board displays sensors and mission computer . Displays may include for example monitors gauges or other display devices that display information to a human e.g. the vehicle operator or a passenger . Sensors may include for example sensors used to monitor the mechanical systems of the vehicle sensors that provide data for computing speed altitude position or other vehicle status information sensors used to monitor external environmental conditions or any other suitable type of sensor. Mission computer may be a computer that assists in navigation mission planning and other control functions. These devices may communicate with each other for example via legacy network and may communicate with external systems via interface module .

The external systems may include for example real time intelligence feeds which provide intelligence information an unmanned aerial vehicle datalink which provides imagery and or other information obtained from UAVs and allows for command and control of UAVs and satellite imagery datalink which provides imagery obtained from satellite cameras. Interface module may receive data from external systems and provide this information to embedded electronic systems . Interface module may also provide information from embedded electronic systems to external systems that are consumers of this information. For example if one of sensors is an infrared sensor interface module may provide infrared imagery obtained via this sensor to an external consumer of this information such as for example other vehicles in the same geographic area or a command and control center which may use this information to make strategic decisions.

In the example of external systems serve as sources of information for embedded systems . However the invention is not limited in this respect as external systems may include systems that receive data from embedded electronic systems . Indeed some external systems may both provide information to and receive information from the embedded electronic systems. Further in the example of three external systems are shown i.e. systems and . These systems are shown merely as examples of the types of systems that may communicate with the systems on board vehicle and of the types of data that may be provided. However the invention is not limited in this respect as interface module may interface with any number or type of external systems. Similarly in the example of three types of embedded electronic systems are shown in vehicle i.e. displays sensors and mission computer . It should be understood that these are merely examples of the types of on board electronic systems for which interface module serves as an interface and that interface module may serve as an interface for any number of type of embedded electronic systems as the invention is not limited in this respect.

As discussed above interface module may provide information from external systems to embedded electronic systems . This may be done in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. One example of an interface module that may be used in some embodiments of the invention is shown in .

In interface module includes an internal network and components . Information may be received from an external system or network via one or more of communication device s and placed on internal network . Communication devices may include for example legacy i.e. pre existing communication devices of the vehicle and or additional communication devices added to the vehicle to enable communication with external systems. Communication devices may include for example radios and or other wireless communication devices.

Each of components acts as a peer on internal network . That is each component may listen for information placed on internal network determine based on the content of the information if the information is intended for it and if so process the information.

The components on internal network may enable operation of the embedded electronic systems with external systems by re formatting information so that it is in a format which is suitable for use by an embedded electronic system or an external system that is an intended recipient of data by managing incoming and outgoing data and the hardware resources used to send and receive such data and by providing additional functionality that enables the embedded electronic systems to make use of new types of information provided from external systems.

For example components and may be used in the reformatting of data. That is legacy interface processing element may serve as an interface to the embedded electronic systems of the vehicle. As discussed above embedded components frequently employ specialized protocols and interfaces. Legacy interface processing element may be capable of accessing the interface used by an embedded system and sending information to the system according to the protocol that it uses.

Thus for example legacy interface processing element determines if information on internal network is intended for one of the embedded electronic systems of the vehicle and if so retrieves the information converts it to a form that the destination electronic system can understand and sends the information to the system. Legacy interface processing element may also retrieve information from the embedded electronic systems and provide this information to external systems via one or more of communication devices . Legacy interface processing element interfaces with embedded systems using legacy hardware interfaces . These hardware interfaces allow interface module to connect to the legacy communication networks and buses used by the embedded electronic systems.

Mission Display Processing Element may provide the capability to communicate information between the interface module and the operator via operator control s and or display s . That is for example some information that is desired to be communicated between the interface module and the operator may not be able to be readily processed or processed at all by the embedded electronic systems of the vehicle. For example the interface module may provide a new capability for presenting UAV image data to the operator while the existing embedded electronic systems are not capable of presenting this information to the operator. Thus Mission Display Processing Element may present this information to the operator and receive control input from the operator. In some embodiments Mission Display Processing Element may communicate with an additional operator control and display unit that is added to enable display of the new type of information. In other embodiments Mission Display Processing Element may communicate with an existing operator control and display unit. This may be done in any suitable way such as for example through unused or spare display pages display overlay or control keys or in any other suitable way.

Real Time Image Compression Element may receive image data provided from one or more of the embedded electronic systems and compresses the image data so that it is in a format suitable for transmission to an external system. Net Centric Mediation Services Element provides data translation functionality. For example element may translate data from one format to another or may perform conversions such as for example translating standard units to metric units.

Data Fusion Processing Element may combine individual pieces of data that are associated with the same logical object. For example the interface module may receive multiple data reports regarding the same target from multiple sensors e.g. radar infrared sensors electronic support measures sensors or any other suitable sensors . Data Fusion Processing Element may determine that the reports received from these sensors are for the same target and may combine the information into a single report that includes a composite set of attributes for the target. This may reduce the number of reports that an operator of the vehicle or other systems need to process and the composite report may facilitate a better understanding of the target than separately reviewing the individual reports.

Components and for example may provide management capabilities. That is Core Mission Processing Element with Simulation may support simulated operation for use in system testing and operator training. This component may provide simulations of existing embedded systems of the vehicle or new systems to be added to the vehicle and may simulate information from flow from such systems. Additionally this element may provide simulations of external systems to mimic information flow from those systems.

Communication Manager Processing Element manages any of communication devices added to communicate with external systems. Thus for example if an additional radio is added to communicate with external systems communication manager processing element may control the operation of the radio such as for example powering it on and off tuning it and other management functions.

File Server Element may provide a storage capability within the interface module. For example this element may provide persistent storage of data on magnetic disk solid state memory or other non volatile memory or may provide temporary storage to maintain information during operations or missions.

Components and may provide additional functionality for the embedded electronic systems of the vehicle. For example digital map processing element that receives location information of points of interest e.g. enemy positions targets friendlies current position of vehicle and generates a digital map that marks the location of these points of interest. The digital map may then be sent to one or more of the embedded electronic systems for display to a vehicle operator or passenger. Collaboration and replanning processing element may provide an online meeting or whiteboard functionality to allow multiple geographically disparate vehicles to electronically conference. Thus for example collaboration and replanning processing element may process the net meeting whiteboard data and may send information to an embedded display or monitor of the vehicle.

Components are merely examples provided to illustrate the types of functionality that may be provided to embedded electronic systems via interface module . It should be appreciated that additional components may be added to provide additional types of functionality and the invention is not limited with respect to the number of components in interface module or the types of functionality that these components provide.

Interface module and its components may be implemented in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. For example components may be implemented in hardware or software or any combination thereof. In some embodiments each of components may be implemented as a separate application program executing on a single processor or may be implemented as separate threads of a single application program executing on a single processor. However the invention is not limited in this respect as when implemented in software these components need not all execute on the same processor as any suitable number of processors may be used including for example one processor for each component . Alternatively in some embodiments each component of the interface module may implemented on a separate computer having its own processing and memory resources.

Further any suitable physical package may be used for interface module . For example in some embodiments the interface module may be housed in a roll on roll off RO RO rack that may be rolled on to a vehicle and connected to the existing embedded systems of the vehicle. In some embodiments the software components of interface module may execute on one or more processors of the existing embedded electronic systems. For example in some embodiments these components may execute on the flight computer of an aircraft. Using the existing processors of the embedded electronic systems may be particularly beneficial when there are space or weight limitations imposed by the vehicle.

As discussed above interface module shown in allows existing embedded electronic systems to operate with external systems without significantly modifying the existing embedded electronic systems. Further Applicants have appreciated that in some situations it may be desirable to add new embedded electronic systems to a vehicle and to allow these new electronic systems to interoperate with the existing embedded electronic system. Thus in some embodiments interface module may be used to interface existing embedded electronic systems with newly added electronic systems without making significant modifications the existing embedded electronic systems. This may be done in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect.

For example it may be desired to add to an aircraft an infrared camera system for use for example in detecting objects at night that are not visible to the pilot. It may be desirable to provide information about any detected objects to the aircraft s existing flight computer e.g. so that the flight computer can compute a flight path that avoids these objects . Thus for example interface module may interface with the infrared camera system and receive image data from the infrared camera e.g. via interface processing element process the image data for example to locate any potential obstacles format that information into a format suitable for use by the flight computer and send the information to the flight computer so that the flight computer may re compute the aircraft s flight path.

In addition in some situations it may be desirable to add additional functionality to existing embedded electronic systems of a vehicle without significantly modifying these systems. Thus in some embodiments such capabilities may be implemented in interface module without requiring further modification to the embedded electronic systems. For example if it is desired to add to interface module the capability to communicate with a new external system one or more additional components may be added to interface module and or existing components may be modified to process data received from the new external system and send the data to one or more of the existing embedded electronic systems. Thus modifications to interface module may be made to enable the embedded electronic systems to communicate with additional external systems without having to significantly modify the embedded electronic systems.

Applicants have appreciated that in some situations information received from an external system may be sensitive. Thus it may be desirable in some situations to allow only the components of interface module and the embedded systems of the vehicle that are intended to receive this information to have access to this information. However as discussed above in some embodiments internal network of interface module is a peer to peer network in which each of components is a peer. Thus information placed on internal network may be accessible by any of components . However when sensitive information is placed on the internal network it is desirable to prevent unauthorized components of interface module from having the ability to access this information. Thus in some embodiments of the invention components that are not intended recipients of sensitive information are blocked from receiving this information. This may be done in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect.

For example in one embodiment each component may operate as an application program on a system that runs a certified operating system. The operating systems of each system may be synchronized and certain time slots may be designated for sensitive communications. Thus for example the first 10 milliseconds of every second may be used for classified communications. If a component is not authorized to receive sensitive information the operating system for that component may disable network communications for the period of time designated for sensitive communications. Thus the operating system prevents components that are not authorized to receive sensitive information from accessing this data.

Applicants have further appreciated that it may be desirable to test interface module to verify the capabilities of the interface module . This may be done for example prior to installing the interface module in a vehicle and or when adding new components to the interface module after it has been installed in a vehicle. Thus in some embodiments interface module may be capable of interfacing with a simulation environment that simulates external systems. The simulation environment may simulate external systems by sending information to interface module similar to the information that the external systems would send.

The simulation environment may interface with the interface module in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. For example in some embodiments the simulation environment may communicate with interface module by sending information to or receiving information from one or more of communication devices . Alternatively in some embodiments the simulation environment may coupled with internal network of interface module .

As described in above interface module may provide the capability to interface existing embedded electronic systems with external systems e.g. the Global Information Grid to interface existing embedded electronic systems with newly added embedded electronic systems and to add new functionality to existing embedded electronic systems. However the peer to peer networking architecture used by interface module presents challenges in adapting to changes in the embedded electronic systems of a vehicle as well as changes in the external systems with which it is desired to allow the embedded systems to communicate.

For example in interface module each component on internal network supports peer interactions over the internal network. Thus if an additional component is added to the network e.g. to provide new functionality to the embedded systems to interface existing embedded systems with a new external system or to interface existing embedded systems with a new embedded system modifications to the other components on the network may in some situations be needed to support peer to peer interaction with the new component. Further the external networks with which it is desired for the interface module to interface may change over time e.g. modifications may be made to the external networks or new external networks with which it is desired to interface may come into existence . As the external networks change many components on the internal network may have to be modified to adapt to these changes.

In addition some external networks such as the GIG communicate according to a set of standards. This is advantageous as it permits newly developed systems to interoperate with these networks by designing these systems to operate according to the standards used by the external networks. However the use of these standards may require each component on the internal network of interface module to support interaction with these standards. Further such standards frequently change over time and as these standards evolve multiple or all of the components on the internal network may need to be modified to accommodate these changes.

Moreover external networks such as the GIG may become unavailable due to for example communication interruptions. These interruptions may be caused for example by interference on the communications channel hardware failure in communication devices or other causes. Because of the peer to peer architecture of the internal network of interface module each component may have to individually handle service interruptions.

Further when new functionality is added to interface module e.g. a new application to process information the system operation may have to be redesigned to accommodate a new component that performs the new functionality or one or more existing components may have to modified to perform the new functionality. Either of these approaches may require time consuming integration and testing.

Thus in some embodiments an interface module having a centralized architecture may be used. Such an interface module may address the limitations described above in connection with an interface module having a peer to peer architecture i.e. interface module . However the invention is not limited in this respect as in some embodiments the interface module may address only some of these limitations and in some embodiments the interface module may not address any of these limitations.

One example of an interface module having a centralized architecture is shown in . Interface module includes workflows services embedded systems interfaces subscription publication manager communication interfaces and discovery manager . These components may communicate with each other via information network . Workflows serve as central managers for information coming into and out of interface module .

Services are components that provide library functions. For example in some embodiments services provided in interface module may include a digital map processing service e.g. a service that provides the functionality of digital map processing element or a collaboration and replanning service e.g. a service that provides the functionality of collaboration and replanning element . It should be appreciated that these are merely two examples of the types of services that may be provided in interface module and that the invention is not limited to any number or type of services. In some embodiments interface module may provide a service container capability. That is the service container may provide extra computing resources to allow for new services to be added to the adapter. The services in the service container may interact with interface module in a manner similar to that of the embedded electronic systems of the vehicle except that these services may run in the same environment e.g. the same computing hardware application framework and or operating system as interface module .

Embedded system interfaces are interfaces that interface module with the embedded electronic systems of a vehicle. In some embodiments interface module may include an embedded system interface for each embedded electronics system or device or type of system or device in the vehicle in which interface module is employed. For example in some embodiments in which interface module is employed in an aircraft embedded system interfaces may include a 1553 interface to interface module with the existing Military Standard 1553 i.e. MIL STD 1553 bus used by the aircraft avionics. Such an interface allows interface module to receive information from and send information to the embedded electronic systems that communicate using the 1553 avionics bus.

Subscription Publication Manager manages subscriptions to information provided by external networks or systems and publication of information provided from the vehicle s embedded electronic systems to external networks or systems. Thus for example if one of the embedded electronic systems of the vehicle uses information from real time intelligence feeds provided by an external system subscription manager may establish a subscription with the external source of this data so that the external source provides the information on a continuous basis. Subscription Publication Manager may manage these subscriptions by for example selecting what information should be provided from the external data source ensuring that the subscriptions remain current renewing subscriptions if required and or performing any other subscription management functions.

Subscription Publication Manager may also manage subscriptions from external systems or networks to information provided by interface module . For example if the vehicle in which an interface module is employed is an aircraft that includes for example a camera for photographing the terrain over which it is flying it may desirable to provide the photographs taken by this camera to terrestrial locations e.g. a command and control center and or infantry or armored cavalry units in the area . Thus for example terrestrial systems may subscribe to interface module so that interface module provides the photographs to these systems on a continuous basis. Subscription Publication Manager may manage such subscriptions by for example ensuring that the appropriate data is sent to the appropriate subscriber.

Communication Interfaces are interfaces between interface module and communication devices used to communicate with external networks. For example in some embodiments a joint tactical radio system JTRS radio may be used to send information to and receive information from external networks and systems. Thus communications interfaces may include an interface that interfaces information network of interface module with the JTRS radio. It should be appreciated that this only example of a communication interface that may be used and that the invention is not limited to any number or type of communication interface.

Discovery Manager manages discovery of external systems that may be used as sources of data for interface module . It may also manage registration of interface module as a source of data to external systems. For example if interface module desires to receive intelligence data on enemy locations to provide to an embedded electronic system discovery manager may discover any external systems or networks that have this information available. Similarly if interface module provides imagery data generated by an embedded electronic system discover manager may register the availability of that data to external systems.

As discussed above workflows are managers of information coming into and out of interface module . That is a workflow defines what information is needed or desired which external networks or systems and or embedded systems produce that information which external networks and or embedded systems consume that information how to interface with external systems what processing of that information should be done before sending the information to its ultimate destination and or any other information flow specifications. In some embodiments a separate workflow may be defined for each type of information that the interface module receives. For example separate workflows may be defined for real time intelligence information map information infrared imagery and any other type of information that interface module receives. Thus a workflow may interface with the external systems that provide the type of data that it manages. However the invention is not limited in this respect as a separate workflow need not be defined for each type of information and in some embodiments a single workflow may define the flow of information for multiple types of information.

Workflows may manage information flow in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. For example in some embodiments in which interface module is employed in an aircraft one of the existing embedded electronic systems of the aircraft may be a route planner that uses information including current location of the aircraft destination of the aircraft intelligence information e.g. information on the locations of enemies and friendlies and geographic information e.g. information on the terrain of the location in which the aircraft is located and generates a route for the aircraft taking into account the geography and known threats in the area and potentially using the geography to avoid detection by these threats . Thus it may be desirable to provide the route planner with up to date map information and intelligence information so that the route planner has more recent information to use in generating a route.

Without information provided to it via interface module the only information that the route planner may have available is the map and intelligence information loaded prior to take off and any intelligence information obtained from on board sensors. The route planner would not have the ability to obtain updated map or intelligence information from for example other friendly aircraft or terrestrial vehicles in the area.

Thus in some embodiments the route planner may express a desire for map and intelligence information via an interface for the route planner e.g. one of embedded systems interfaces . One of workflows may be for example a workflow that manages intelligence information and another workflow of workflows may be for example a workflow that manages map information. The workflow that manages intelligence information may learn of the route planner s desire for intelligence information from embedded system interface . This workflow may then request that discovery manager perform a discovery of sources of intelligence information on for example the locations of hostiles and or friendlies in the area. Discovery manager may inform the workflow of any discovered external systems that are available to provide such information. The workflow may then connect to one or more of the external systems discovered by Discovery Manger e.g. via one or more of communication interfaces and request intelligence information from these systems. Alternatively in some embodiments the workflow may subscribe to these systems e.g. via Subscription Publication Manager so that these systems may provide information to interface module on a continuous basis without interface module having to repeatedly request the information. Once the requested intelligence information is received from the external system workflow may provide this information to the route planner via the interface for the route planner.

As discussed above the route planner may also express a desire for map data. A separate workflow may obtain map data from an external system for the route planner in a manner similar to that described above in connection with the intelligence information workflow. However in some embodiments the workflow may not need to obtain information for an embedded system from an external source as there may be a source of that data in the vehicle. For example in some embodiments one of services may be a map server that is capable of generating maps from a database of map data on the vehicle. Thus rather than connect to an external system for obtaining map data the map data workflow may request the desired maps from the map server utility and provide this information to the route planner via the interface for the route planner. In some situations when the map data workflow requests a map from the map server utility the map server utility may respond by indicating that it does not have the requested map. In such a situation the map data workflow may then obtain the desired map from an external system in a manner similar to that described above in connection with the intelligence information workflow.

In the example above the route planner was capable of expressing a desire for intelligence information and map data. However Applicants have appreciated that in some embodiments an embedded electronic system may not be capable of expressing a desire for or requesting information from an external system e.g. because the system was designed to operate using only data pre loaded into the system . In such situations in some embodiments the workflow may be aware that the embedded system is incapable of requesting data and rather than wait for a request from the embedded system for data may anticipate that the embedded system could use certain information and provide that information the embedded system without it having been requested to do so. Alternatively in some embodiments a human operator may request that interface module provide certain information to the embedded system e.g. via a human interface of the vehicle s embedded electronic systems via a human interface to interface module or in any other suitable way . Alternatively in some embodiments the embedded system may send requests to existing internal systems for data. Interface module may intercept these requests and provide updated data from for example external sources or other on board sources to the embedded system. Alternatively in some embodiments the embedded system itself may be modified so that is capable of obtaining data from external sources.

Applicants have appreciated that in some situations communication links may not be available e.g. due to interference on the channel hardware failure or other reasons and thus it may not be possible to obtain information from external systems or networks. Thus in some embodiments workflows may cache information received from external systems. If an external system is unavailable e.g. due to a service interruption the workflows may provide the cached information to embedded systems for example until more recent information from externals systems can be obtained.

Interface module and its components may be implemented in any suitable way as the invention is not limited in this respect. In some embodiments interface module may employ a service oriented architecture SOA to facilitate communication with external systems and to facilitate communication between the internal components of interface module . SOA is a set of standards that support machine to machine and interprocess interaction including message passing and discovery of available services. SOA is intended to provide loose coupling between systems. That is SOA provides a set of generic interfaces that every SOA system uses and the ability to deliver application specific messages via these interfaces. The content format and structure of the application specific messages are defined by extensible schema that may also be passed through the interface. Thus in some embodiments interface module may employ SOA interfaces to communicate with external systems.

In interface module because workflows interface with external systems if the interface that an external system uses changes in some embodiments only the workflows that interface with the external system may be modified. Thus in some embodiments it may not be necessary to modify other internal components of interface module . Although in some embodiments or situations it may be necessary to modify other internal components of interface module to accommodate changes in the interfaces used by external systems such modifications may not be as extensive as they would without use of an interface module such as interface module .

Further if it is desired to operate with an additional external system that provides a new type of data a new workflow may be added to interface with the additional system and handle the new type of data that the external system provides. It is not necessary to modify any of the other existing components of interface module to enable interoperation with the new external system.

Further because workflows route information among the internal components of interface module it is not required that the internal components be designed to work with each other. Further new services e.g. that provide additional functionality may be added to the system without requiring modifications to the other services or interfaces of the interface module. Rather workflows may be modified to take utilize any new services added to the system. In addition workflows may handle any service interruptions e.g. by providing cached information during service interruptions so that the other components need not each individually have the capability to handle such interruptions.

In some embodiments interface module may be implemented using a component framework. That is a number of types of components may be defined and an interface may be defined for each of the types of components. Each of the internal components of interface module may be implemented according to one of these defined interfaces.

One example of a component framework that may be used in some embodiments is shown in . In the example of a five types of components are defined utility components external interfaces platform policy components mission workflow components and legacy interface components .

Legacy interface components are components that interface with the embedded electronic systems of a vehicle. These components may monitor for events or messages from the embedded systems transform information from a external message into a format usable by an embedded system e.g. using a transformation utility manage I O devices and channels and track the state of the embedded systems. Thus for example embedded systems interface of interface module may be implemented as legacy interface components.

Mission Workflow components orchestrate the services used to satisfy the information desired for a particular mission or application. These components may be invoked on an mission or application related event or request and may handle flow logic and policy specific to a particular mission or application. These components may be capable of modifying aggregating correlating and routing messages. Thus for example workflows of interface module may be implemented as Mission Workflow components .

Platform Policy components are components that provide a system wide functionality that is not specific to a particular mission or application. These components may enforce system policies that are not specific to any particular mission or application. Such components may be invoked when specific message types are received or when an endpoint is accessed by an external agent e.g. for authentication purposes . For example a mission commander may have a policy that there should be radio silence between all vehicles participating in the system during certain stage of the mission. The interface module may include a platform policy component that checks when radio communication is permitted and enforces the policy of radio silence when radio communication is not permitted. Other examples of platform policy components are Subscription Publication Manager and Discovery Manager of interface module .

External Interfaces are components that manage information flow across standard interfaces between external systems and the internal information network of interface module . These components may be invoked when called by a client or when relevant information is receive via the information network and may service any calls by performing any required transformation and invoking other components of interface module to handle received information. These components also manage responses from the components that handle the received information and return any applicable service response to the client. Examples of External Interface components are Communication Interfaces of interface module .

Utility Components are components that provide library functions for use by the other components. For example utility components may provide caching functionality or may be capable for transforming information from one format to another. Services of interface module are examples of utility components.

Component Programming Interfaces are defined interfaces for each type of components. Thus for example there an interface may be defined for each of component types and . That is for example Mission Workflow components may implement the Mission Workflow Component Programming Interface and Platform Policy components may implement the Platform Policy Component Programming Interface. Providing a standard interface for each type of component class promotes consistency interchangeability and composability of components. For example the Component Programming Interface for a type of component may define a system for authentication and access control. The system for authentication and access control defined by the Component Programming Interface may be the system that is used by the external systems with which the interface module communicates. If the system for authentication and access control used by these external systems changes the interface module may accommodate this change by modifying the Component Programming Interface without having to change the underlying components themselves.

Platform Integration Target Framework Abstraction Layer may be for example a software layer that interfaces the Component Programming Interfaces implemented by the components of the interface module to the component application programming interface API of the Application Framework that interface module uses.

Application Framework is an application framework used by the interface module. Examples of commercially available application frameworks include the Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition J2EE and the OSGi application framework.

Java Runtime Environment is a program that executes Java bytecode programs. That is it serves as interpreter for programs e.g. components . It should be appreciated that the Java Runtime Environment is one example an interpreter that may be used. However the invention is not limited in this respect as any interpreter or compiler may be used in the execution of programs.

Computer Platform is the underlying hardware and operating system on which the higher layers execute. Any suitable processing hardware and operating system may be used as the invention is not limited in this respect.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers. It should be appreciated that any component or collection of components that perform the functions described above can be generically considered as one or more controllers that control the above discussed functions. The one or more controllers can be implemented in numerous ways such as with dedicated hardware or with general purpose hardware e.g. one or more processors that is programmed using microcode or software to perform the functions recited above.

In this respect it should be appreciated that one implementation of the embodiments of the present invention comprises at least one computer readable medium e.g. a computer memory a floppy disk a compact disk a tape etc. encoded with a computer program i.e. a plurality of instructions which when executed on a processor performs the above discussed functions of the embodiments of the present invention.

The computer readable medium can be transportable such that the program stored thereon can be loaded onto any computer environment resource to implement the aspects of the present invention discussed herein. In addition it should be appreciated that the reference to a computer program which when executed performs the above discussed functions is not limited to an application program running on a host computer. Rather the term computer program is used herein in a generic sense to reference any type of computer code e.g. software or microcode that can be employed to program a processor to implement the above discussed aspects of the present invention.

It should be appreciated that in accordance with several embodiments of the present invention wherein processes are implemented in a computer readable medium the computer implemented processes may during the course of their execution receive input manually e.g. from a user .

The phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising having containing involving and variations thereof is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and additional items.

Having described several embodiments of the invention in detail various modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art. Such modifications and improvements are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description is by way of example only and is not intended as limiting. The invention is limited only as defined by the following claims and the equivalents thereto.

