---

title: Method and apparatus for toolbox inventory
abstract: A method and apparatus is provided for electronically inventorying an electronically locked and unlocked toolbox before and after RFID (Radio Frequency IDentified) tagged tools are accessed by an authorized user. A record is generated and stored of tools added and/or removed along with the identity of the accessing user. At anytime it is desired, a record may be generated of tagged tools in the toolbox or, alternatively, a list of tagged tools missing from assigned positions in the toolbox.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07755482&OS=07755482&RS=07755482
owner: Electronic Inventory Solutions, Inc.
number: 07755482
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060829
---
The present invention relates generally to electronically inventorying RFID Radio Frequency Identifier tagged tools in a receptacle.

When tools are used in a manufacturing environment it is important that they be returned to a source receptacle after use. Employers typically perform a manual inventory of the source receptacle to minimize or eliminate the problem of employee theft of expensive tools. Companies can conduct random audits of employee s toolbox to prevent theft and monitor tool location. Another reason for such an inventory is to prevent the problems associated with leaving tools in the workplace environment where they could cause damage. One example of damage is where medical instruments are accidentally left by a doctor or staffs within a patient s body cavity after a medical operation is complete. In a similar manner any environment where machinery is repaired or serviced would also benefit from being able to quickly ascertain that all tools used in a given project have been returned to a given repository.

In the aerospace industry hand tools are used to manufacture modify and maintain aircraft. Inventory control over these hand tools is critical to prevent Foreign Object Damage FOD from being left in the aircraft. FOD is defined as any object not structurally part of the aircraft. The most common foreign objects found are nuts bolts safety wire and hand tools.

Typically technicians or mechanics supply their own tools and may have a list of the tools in a toolbox. The technician or mechanic has the personal responsibility of inventorying their own toolbox at the completion of each task and or at the end of a shift.

When the company supplies the tools needed one approach to inventory control is the use of nickel size metal tokens referred to as chits. These chits are stamped with the same serial number. The technician or mechanic signs out a number of chits having the same serial number. Alternately the chits may contain a picture of the employee and the employee s Employee Identification Number EIN . These company supplied tools are kept in toolboxes that can have foam mats with grooved or etched out areas where only the tool that belongs in a particular spot will fit in that spot. When a technician or mechanic needs a tool to perform a task he or she will remove the tool and place one of their chits in or on the now empty etched out area. At the completion of the task or end of shift whichever comes first the technician or mechanic will replace the tools he or she has checked out and retrieve their chits. Afterward the technician or mechanic inventories their chits to ensure they have returned all tools. At the beginning and end of each shift the shift supervisor manually inventories the entire toolbox to ensure all tools are accounted for and or checked out with a chit. There have been numerous incidences where a missing tool has escaped notice during this inventory process for as many as two to three or more inspection cycles.

In the airline industry when a tool has been established as missing the first course of action is to try to determine which aircraft was the last aircraft the tool had been used on. If this can be established a search will begin on that aircraft to try and locate the tool. If within some reasonable period of time the tool cannot be found usually two to three hours a Quality Deficiency Report QAR will be generated to document the lost tool. The search will continue with a quality assurance representative participating in the search. This effectively places the aircraft in Downed Status un flyable . If the tool is found the QAR will be signed off and will remain with the aircrafts permanent record. If the tool can not be located the quality assurance QA representative will make a determination as to whether to release the aircraft as safe for flight. The QA representative also has the option of having the aircraft x rayed in a further attempt to find the missing tool. This is a costly remedy and is generally used in instances where the area in which the tool was lost is considered to be a critical area such as the engine movable flight surfaces and the cockpit.

A patent to Mohr U.S. Pat. No. 6 989 749 assigned to the US Navy describes an attempt to provide inventory control of tools. As presented a toolbox would have one 13.56 MHz reader one antenna a 13.56 MHz RFID tag embedded wristband and a 13.56 MHz tag embedded in each tool. As described a single antenna attached to the reader promulgates the area around the toolbox with a 13.56 MHz signal which activates powers up the tags embedded in both the wristband and tools when removed from the toolbox. Activating the tags results in transmitting this data over a wireless interface to a host computer. By necessity a 13.56 MHz tag will be small in size which will in turn restricts the read range that can be accomplished with such a small tag. In point of fact given a tag size of 15 20 mm the read range typically will be no more than 2 to 4 cm. Given that limitation it would be impossible for the tag to be activated and accurately read without being within 4 cm of the antenna attached to the reader. It is understandable that this simple method would be desirable from a cost and ease of installation point of view. However most toolboxes are between 2 and 6 long. Thus as a practical matter the Mohr invention results in at least some tools being removed from a toolbox without their tags being read activated by the system reader. Further the Mohr system requires that all the toolboxes be kept in a given secure area to accomplish authorized user accountability.

A need thus exists for a method of improved tool accountability. Further there is a need for equipment that can accurately and quickly ascertain which tools are returned to a given receptacle such as a toolbox by a given individual. Also there is a need to have a way of quickly ascertaining what items are still missing from the given receptacle. Further there is a need to allow the temporary removal of a toolbox from the area in which it is normally stored to a remote worksite while a repair is in process.

In one aspect a method for a radio frequency identification RFID tagged tool inventory control includes but is not limited to reading a close proximity user RFID tag in association with a given toolbox as a first event comparing data obtained from said user RFID tag at said first event with users authorized to access said given toolbox preparing a first inventory list of all presently readable tools initially in said toolbox reading a close proximity user RFID tag in association with said given toolbox after closure of said given toolbox as a second event preparing a second inventory list of all presently readable tools remaining in said given toolbox and transmitting a record indicative of the difference between said first and second inventory lists to a database for storage along with an indication of the user that caused the change in toolbox inventory. In addition to the foregoing other method aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

In another aspect a computing system includes but is not limited to a secure user interface application and an operating system executing on the computing system including an application programming interface API to facilitate communication between the secure user interface application and a voice capable system wherein the API includes a data structure to pass logged data identified by a user in a user initiated monitored network interaction and an operational data structure to enable a user to store the logged data identified by the user using a drag and drop utility associated with the secure user interface application. In addition to the foregoing other computing system aspects are described in the claims drawing and text forming a part of the present application.

In another aspect a computer program product includes but is not limited to a signal bearing medium bearing at least one of one or more instructions for a signal bearing medium bearing one or more instructions for reading a close proximity user radio frequency identification RFID tag in association with a given toolbox as a first event one or more instructions for comparing data obtained from said user RFID tag at said first event with users authorized to access said given toolbox one or more instructions for preparing a first inventory list of all presently readable tools initially in said toolbox one or more instructions for reading a close proximity user RFID tag in association with said given toolbox after closure of said given toolbox as a second event one or more instructions for preparing a second inventory list of all presently readable tools remaining in said given toolbox and one or more instructions for transmitting a record indicative of the difference between said first and second inventory lists to a database for storage along with an indication of the user that caused the change in toolbox inventory.

In another aspect an electronically lockable toolbox is provided that includes a plurality of RFID radio frequency identification tagged tools stored in said electronically lockable toolbox each of said RFID tagged tools having an RFID tag operating as an identifier for each of said tools a first RFID reader mounted on said electronically lockable toolbox said first RFID reader adapted to read RFID tags for each of said tools to determine tools added as well as tools removed by an authorized user between an event signifying an unlocking and opening of the toolbox and an event signifying a complete closure and locking of said toolbox said first RFID reader reading and recording the RFID tag for each of said tools which said authorized user removed from and or added to said electronically lockable toolbox a close proximity second RFID reader mounted on said electronically lockable toolbox said close proximity second RFID reader being adapted to read a user supplied RFID device and an identification device having a radio frequency identification device imbedded therein said identification device configured to enable a toolbox user to identify said user as an individual authorized to remove one or more of the plurality of RFID tagged tools from and or add one or more of the plurality of RFID tagged tools to said electronically lockable toolbox.

In another aspect an apparatus for providing radio frequency identification RFID tagged tool inventory control includes a toolbox configured with a plurality of recesses wherein at least some of said recesses conforms to the shape of given RFID tagged tools an electronically controlled lock coupled to said toolbox said electronically controlled lock configured to activate while said toolbox is in a closed condition said electronically controlled lock further configured to secure tools in said toolbox and operable when deactivated to allow access to said given RFID tagged tools in said toolbox a first RFID reader coupled to said toolbox said first RFID reader configured to read each of the given RFID tagged tools in said toolbox a user identifier operable to generate a first event signal that an identified user wishes to access the contents of said toolbox and to generate a second event signal when said identified user wishes to close and secure access to the contents of said toolbox and logic means electrically connected to said electronically controlled lock said first RFID reader and said user identifier said logic means configured to a initiate a scan of a one or more tagged tools in said toolbox upon receipt of said first event signal b record the identity of the identified user initiating said first event signal c generate a first list of the one or more tagged tools detected in the toolbox d deactivate said lock means whereby the one or more tagged tools in the toolbox may be accessed e activate said lock whereby the one or more tagged tools in the toolbox may no longer be accessed upon receipt of said second event signal f initiate a second scan of the one or more tagged tools in said toolbox g record the identity of the user initiating said second event signal h generate a second list of the one or more tagged tools detected in the toolbox and i generate after comparing said first and second list a record of the one or more tagged tools removed and or added to said toolbox between said first and second event signals.

In another aspect a method for providing radio frequency identification RFID RFID tagged tool inventory control of a toolbox includes but is not limited to preparing a first inventory list of all presently readable tools initially in said toolbox before allowing identified user access to said toolbox preparing a second inventory list of all presently readable tools remaining in said toolbox upon completion of closing and locking of said toolbox and generating a record indicative of any differences between said first and second inventory lists for transmission to a database along with an indication of the user that accessed the toolbox.

In one or more various aspects related systems include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to affect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer. In addition to the foregoing other system aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

In one aspect a toolbox includes but is not limited to an electronically controlled lock a radio frequency identification RFID reader coupled to the electronically controlled lock the RFID reader configured to detect each of a plurality of tagged tools in said toolbox first event logic means connected to said electronically controlled lock and to said reader said first event logic means configured to prepare a first inventory list of each of a plurality of readable tools initially in said toolbox before deactivating said electronically controlled lock to allow access to said toolbox second event logic means coupled to said electronically controlled lock and to said RFID reader for preparing a second inventory list of each of the plurality of readable tools remaining in said toolbox subsequent to activating said electronically controlled lock and report means operable to access said first and second inventory lists and to generate a record indicative of any differences between said first and second inventory lists for transmission to a database along with an indication of the user that accessed the toolbox. In addition to the foregoing other communication device aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present application.

In addition to the foregoing various other method system and or computer program product aspects are set forth and described in the text e.g. claims and or detailed description and or drawings of the present application.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is NOT intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects features and advantages of the devices and or processes and or other subject described herein will become apparent in the text set forth herein.

In the following discussion numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known elements have been illustrated in schematic or block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail. Additionally for the most part details concerning network communications electro magnetic signaling techniques and the like have been omitted inasmuch as such details are not considered necessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention and are considered to be within the understanding of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

It is further noted that unless indicated otherwise all functions described herein may be performed or implemented in either hardware or software or some combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment however the functions are performed by a processor such as a computer microcontroller or an electronic data processor in accordance with code such as computer program code software and or integrated or other electronic circuits that are coded to perform such functions unless indicated otherwise.

In a toolbox is designated as while a second toolbox N is shown as . The toolbox although not specifically shown as such can contain all the RFID tag detection components and communication capability to be detailed in connection with box . Dashed line is indicative of where the toolboxes are normally stored when not in use. A block represents equipment used to communicate with the toolbox electronics and store and or output data relevant to the inventory process. While the communication between block and the toolboxes is shown as and is preferably wireless it may also be hardwired on an as needed basis. A supervisory user is indicated as interfacing with the block for providing inventory audit or control of a plurality of toolboxes through N.

Toolbox is shown as having a plurality of drawers and N designated as and respectively. Drawers can be a material composition that can be composite fiberglass and or carbon fiber as would be appropriate for an RF friendly environment. Alternatively tool grade steel or other metals can be used for the drawer. If the drawer is made of metal a shielding pad can be employed to reduce or eliminate signal scatter. The shield could be composed of several different material types such as copper or other RF absorbing materials. In one embodiment shielding can be an insulating shielding such as a rubber spray or the like.

Drawer is shown to include three tool conforming receptacles or cavities and . A RFID tagged tool is shown placed within cavity . A further RFID tagged tool is shown in position in cavity while the cavity is empty. Three antennas and are shown adjacent cavities and respectively. These antennas are positioned to be able to read the RFID tags of tagged tools when the tools are correctly inserted in the appropriate cavity. Preferably each cavity such as is formed to fit only a given tool. In one embodiment the cavity in which each tool is located can also be used to assist in the proximity of the embedded tool tag to an embedded antenna. For example a high density foam pad can be used to force the placement of the tool as it relates to a tag embedded in the tool with respect to the physical relation to an antenna. More particularly foam can be etched out of areas for a specific tool such that a tag can be embedded in a position closer to an antenna. If an antenna is at the bottom of a drawer a lower most position on tool can be embedded with a tag. The cavity for each tool can be formed such that the tool can be placed in the cavity only in a given orientation whereby the RFID tag can be accurately activated and read by the appropriate adjacent and or nearby antenna. The foam itself could also be configured to provide shielding by including wire mesh or other EMI shielding material as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art with the benefit of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment the antennas can be small antennas that range in size according to system requirements the size of the drawer and the limitations of the physical requirements of the tools and tool drawer. Antennas can be square round or an appropriate shape to accommodate placing an antenna under a tag embedded in a tool. The three antennas and are shown to be connected through a multiplexer and or a switch and a router to a tool tag reader . Multiplexer switch is optionally directly coupled to optional single antenna .

If multiplexer switch is configured as only a switch according to an embodiment each antenna can be routed by a wire coupled to the switch. Such a switch could then operate as a gate keeper for any signal coming from a reader coupled thereto such as reader . Such a switch could therefore selecting one antenna at a time or in groups according to system requirements.

If multiplexer switch is configured as a multiplexer signals from one or more readers can be configured to transmit continuously to each antenna.

In one embodiment a reader can be embedded into the large antenna or into an antenna array. Alternatively antennas can be inlayed into a plastic sheet or other substrate in series to strategically place the antenna run directly under each tool tag. By placing the antenna and tool tag in close proximity systems communicate distances via communications wires routed from each drawer to a communications module. Using communications wiring such as 26 g stranded wire provides a benefit by providing greater tolerance to bend radiuses than antenna wires in which coaxial wire must be used in applications where wire lengths exceed two to three feet. The remaining drawers and are also shown connected to reader through router . The reader may include a processor or other logic circuitry not shown performing inventory data gathering tasks or it may react to instructions from a separate processor such as processor shown connected to reader . A toolbox lock and an associated toolbox user close proximity RFID reader block are also shown connected to processor . A transceiver is also connected to processor block for providing wireless communication with database block . illustrates reader processor . RFID reader block and transceiver are disposed within toolbox in accordance with an embodiment. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that some components and or a subset of components necessary to operate the system such as transceiver RFID reader and processor can also be attachable to a toolbox to prevent lock from being tampered with if toolbox is in transit. Alternatively components can be maintained within toolbox to maintain a constant synchronization with other network components.

Although not shown the processor may be self powered such that it can operate when not within enclosure . Further the processor block may include data storage capability such that any events of tool removal and tool replacement may be recorded and stored when the toolbox electronics is located remote from or otherwise not in communication with central database block . A stick man representation of a toolbox user is designated as . User is shown with a RFID user tag in the form of a badge card wrist band or other device means of user identification.

Reference will now be made to in combination with . More particularly according to one an embodiment an information management system includes logic configured to control the readers and the toolbox and or a host database. The location of the information management system can be determined according to system requirements. In some embodiments components of the information management system can be located within the toolbox to allow for inventory tracking and access control when the toolbox is outside the range of the established communication network.

When a user such as approaches a toolbox such as he positions an RFID tag such as near the reader . This action causes logic within either reader or processor to pass from start block to the read user tag block . The logic compares the data read with a list of authorized users. A list of authorized users may be obtained from the central database if the toolbox is presently in communication with block . If the transceiver block is not able to communicate with block a list of authorized users stored within processor can be used. Typically the list of authorized users will be updated on some predetermined basis whereby users no longer authorized cannot remove tools from the toolbox. To accommodate communication between an RFID tag reader and a database holding a list of authorized users communication connections can exist between antennas switches multiplexers and a host database. The communication connections can be wireless through CAT 5 cabling and or other hard wired standards which will be appreciated by those of skill in the art and determined to be appropriate for the dictates of system requirements for an operating environment of the system.

If a determination is made in a decision block that the user is not presently authorized the logic is shown as returning to the start position. Alternatively such a determination may be used to sound an alarm or notify the supervisor block before returning to start block .

If on the other hand when it is determined that the user is authorized to access the toolbox the logic in block compiles a list of all the tools in the toolbox as an event by scanning all the tagged tools in the box and recording the data. The compiled list will typically also include the identity of the individual accessing the toolbox. The next block shown as block is to deactivate an electronically controlled lock of the toolbox as represented by block . The electronically controlled lock may be a latching type which is changed between open and closed conditions and back again each time it receives a signal. The lock may also be of the type that is in an open or unlocked condition only when a deactivating signal is applied. In some applications it may be desired that the lock be in a locked or closed position only when an activating signal is applied. Thus when the terms deactivate and activate are used with respect to the lock these terms are be used relative the open and closed conditions of the lock respectively and not relative the electrical signal being used to alter the condition of the lock. The logic waits in an idle mode until a user again presents a user tag to the toolbox reader such as block . During this idle mode time the user such as opens the toolbox and removes tools from the toolbox and or replaces tools previously removed. When the user has completed the removal and replacement of tools the user closes the toolbox such that it can be locked. In some toolbox designs it may be necessary to have electrical contacts that are used to signify to the logic circuitry that all movable portions such as drawers have been returned to a position whereby activation of toolbox lock will prevent unauthorized access to the toolbox. When the user believes that the toolbox is properly closed the users tag is again presented to the user tag reader such as . This causes the logic to proceed to block to read the user tag. If in next block decision block it is determined that a user different from the user initiating event is attempting to close the toolbox the logic proceeds to block and sounds an alarm and or notifies the supervisor .

If it is determined in block that the same user is requesting locking of the toolbox that initially requested access to the toolbox the logic proceeds to block to attempt to lock the toolbox. The logic will check to make sure that any appropriately required drawer or cover contacts are engaged thereby signifying that the lock can be activated and the toolbox placed in a secure condition. If a determination is made in decision block that the toolbox cannot be secured the user is notified in block and the logic returns to block and waits until the user again uses the tag to attempt to lock the toolbox. The notification of block can be merely a warning beep. Alternatively it may be desirable to supply the user with a printed or otherwise visual notice and or may additionally involve a notification to the supervisor that there may be a security breach.

When in block it is determined that the toolbox is in a condition to be locked the lock is activated in the next block of block . At this time a scan or sweep of all the tagged tools in the toolbox is again performed to generate a list of tools as an event . The logic continues to block wherein the lists of events and are compared and a record is generated of the user the tools added and or the tools removed along with any additional desired information such as date and time. Then in block this record is transmitted to the central database when possible. The record may also be stored in the toolbox processor and the centralized database. The task is then completed in the next block . The record generated can be standardized customized and or recorded as an ad hoc output as required for specific business requirements.

Although not shown in the scanning process can be initiated at any time either at the toolbox or by a supervisor from the central database to generate a report of tagged tools in their appropriate positions in the toolbox or alternatively a list of tools missing from the toolbox. Such a list would normally be generated at the end of a shift to ascertain if there is a need to find misplaced tools. The records previously generated will greatly facilitate ascertaining who last checked out any given missing tool. In one embodiment data synchronization occurs between on board memory and a host database when the toolbox enters or resides real time within an established communication network.

As will be apparent to those skilled in the art for some of the higher frequencies used in RFID tag detection the drawer material if sheet metal or other ferrite could affect the accuracy of reading tag data. This problem is typically caused by reflection of the radio frequency signal emitted by the reading antenna. Solutions to this problem are many and varied. A signal absorbing shield such as a copper mesh can be placed between the antennas and the metal of the drawer. As is known the further the antenna is from a radio frequency signal reflecting surface relative to the distance between the antenna and a RFID tag to be read the more reliable the reading of the tag. Accordingly insulation may be used to create a space between the antenna and drawer metal. An advantage of using a solid or foam insulation in this manner for spacing is that a cavity for tool placement can easily be made in this same insulation that conforms to each given tools shape. When using insulation in this manner the antenna may easily be secured in a position spaced from the drawer metal and in close proximity to a RFID tag of the tool appropriate for a given cavity. Drawers however may utilize materials that do not reflect radio frequency signals such as plastic to minimize the depth of the drawer required to accommodate a given set of tools. Although a preferred embodiment of the invention comprises using drawers to contain and position a majority of the tagged tools for the scanning process trays and other devices may be used in place of or in addition to drawers.

A preferred embodiment of this invention is shown to utilize a separate antenna for each tagged tool to be inventoried but it may be desirable to use an antenna that is positioned to read more than one tool in a drawer. In other words a single antenna in an appropriate environment such as a non metallic drawer may be used to read all of or at least a plurality of the tools in a given drawer.

In a similar manner illustrates using a router to combine the outputs from a plurality of drawer multiplexers the signals from the various antennas in a given toolbox may be supplied to reader in others ways known to those in the switching art.

Although the preferred embodiment of the invention incorporates a RFID reader for the user that is separate from that used to inventory the tools the two functions may also readily be incorporated into a single unit along with the processor and appropriate data and computer program storage means. Also for some applications it may be desirable to incorporate a user identification device other than a RFID reader. Such other ID devices may well be retina scanners fingerprint devices and so forth.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates an embodiment of a method an RFID tagged tool inventory control. Block provides for reading a close proximity user RFID tag in association with a given toolbox as a first event. Block provides for comparing data obtained from the user RFID tag at the first event with users authorized to access the toolbox. The comparing the data can be performed in a logic module incorporated into a processor or other computing device. The comparing data can include enabling an unlocking of the toolbox if the RFID tag is authorized according to the comparison. For certain operating environments the logic to compare and unlock the toolbox can be incorporated into on board system components to enable entry and inventory tracking when the toolbox is temporarily outside the range of the communication network. Upon re entering the established network data saved within the on board memory can be transferred to a host database under protocols defined based on the operating environment considerations.

Block provides for preparing a first inventory list of all presently readable tools initially in said toolbox. The first inventory list can be stored in cache and updated upon a scheduled event or the like or be updated upon detecting that a user is authorized to access the toolbox. Block provides for reading a close proximity user RFID tag in association with the toolbox after closure of said given toolbox as a second event. In one embodiment the reading after closure is performed immediately after closure. In other embodiments the second reading occurs when a signal to perform an inventory is received over a network connection. For example an inventory control could be configured to send a signal to perform inventories.

Block provides for preparing a second inventory list of all presently readable tools remaining in the toolbox. Block provides for transmitting a record indicative of the difference between said first and second inventory lists to a database for storage along with an indication of the user that caused the change in toolbox inventory. Each of the first and second inventory lists can be generated by addressing at least one antenna placed in proximity to at least one RFID tagged tool retrieving data from each tagged tool in proximity to said antenna and assembling retrieved data into an inventory list.

Block provides for generating a security alarm when the second event reading occurs before the toolbox is properly closed. The security alarm can be configured to cause the toolbox to lock or cause a message to be sent via a network connection to authorities. Block provides for recording the opening and access of tagged tools in the toolbox. In an embodiment the toolbox can be configured to permit access upon recording the opening of the toolbox if an authorized user is detected. In one embodiment a time and or date time stamp of a transaction such as recording of inventory change and associated identification device occurs each time a toolbox is opened or closed or a transaction occurs. Recording of a second inventory list can be stored on on board memory e.g. flash memory reader memory or alternative memory form . Alternatively either or both of the first and second inventory lists can be recorded into a host database if the toolbox is in range of the established communication network. In one embodiment data is recorded both on board and within the host database.

Block provides for generating an inventory alarm when data obtained from said first and second event user tag readings is other than identical. The inventory alarm can be configured as a security alarm that causes a message to be sent via the network connection to authorities or can cause other toolboxes networked to the toolbox to be electronically locked and or to cause an inventory list to be generated for each other toolbox networked thereto.

With reference to depicted is an exemplary computing system for implementing embodiments. includes a computer including a processor memory and one or more drives . The drives and their associated computer storage media provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Drives can include an operating system application programs logic module and database . Database can be configured to hold one or more inventory lists. Computer can optionally further include user input devices through which a user may enter commands and data. Input devices can include an electronic digitizer a microphone a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices can be connected to processor through a user input interface that is coupled to a system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . Computers such as computer may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface or the like.

Computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more computers such as a remote computer connected to network interface . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and can include many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . Networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. For example in the subject matter of the present application computer may be directly coupled to a toolbox or comprise the source machine from which data is being migrated and the remote computer may comprise the destination machine. Note however that source and destination machines need not be connected by a network or any other means but instead data may be migrated via any media capable of being written by the source platform and read by the destination platform or platforms such as RFID type means. When used in a LAN or WLAN networking environment computer can be connected to the LAN through a network interface or an adapter. When used in a WAN or LAN networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN or LAN such as the Internet. It will be appreciated that other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

According to one embodiment computer is connected in a networking environment such that the processor and or a logic module configured for implementing the logic of and or and can determine whether incoming data is a list of authorized users from an RFID reader. The incoming data can be from a toolbox with communication device or from another data source. The logic described in or a portion thereof can be code stored in memory . For example processor can determine whether an incoming transmission is from a toolbox or associated reader and determine that a next portion of logic is necessary and proceed with the logic of .

Those with skill in the computing arts will recognize that the disclosed embodiments have relevance to a wide variety of applications and architectures in addition to those described above. In addition the functionality of the subject matter of the present application can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. The hardware portion can be implemented using specialized logic the software portion can be stored in a memory or recording medium and executed by a suitable instruction execution system such as a microprocessor.

Although the subject matter of the application has been shown and described with reference to particular embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing and other changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter of the application including but not limited to additional less or modified elements and or additional less or modified blocks performed in the same or a different order.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. 

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to implement devices and or processes and or systems in the fashion s set forth herein and thereafter use engineering and or business practices to integrate such implemented devices and or processes and or systems into more comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes and or systems described herein can be integrated into comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that examples of such comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems might include as appropriate to context and application all or part of devices and or processes and or systems of a an air conveyance e.g. an airplane rocket hovercraft helicopter etc. b a ground conveyance e.g. a car truck locomotive tank armored personnel carrier etc. c a building e.g. a home warehouse office etc. d an appliance e.g. a refrigerator a washing machine a dryer etc. e a communications system e.g. a networked system a telephone system a Voice over IP system etc. f a business entity e.g. an Internet Service Provider ISP entity such as Comcast Cable Quest Southwestern Bell etc. or g a wired wireless services entity such as Sprint Cingular Nextel etc. etc.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations. without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

