---

title: Lubrication system with tolerance for reduced gravity
abstract: A lubrication system includes an auxiliary lubricant tank , a supply conduit  extending from a source of lubricant  to the auxiliary lubricant tank. A reduced-G bypass line  branches from the conduit and enters the auxiliary tank at a first elevation E. The system also includes an auxiliary tank discharge conduit , a portion of which resides within the tank. The resident portion has an opening  at least partially at a second elevation Ehigher than the first elevation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08215454&OS=08215454&RS=08215454
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08215454
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061122
---
This invention was made with Government Support under contract NAS3 01138 awarded by NASA. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application includes subject matter in common with concurrently filed application Ser. No. 11 603 393 entitled Lubrication System with Extended Emergency Operability both applications being assigned to or under obligation of assignment to United Technologies Corporation.

This invention relates to a lubrication system capable of operating satisfactorily for a limited time during reduced gravity reduced G conditions particularly negative G and zero G conditions.

Aircraft gas turbine engines include various components requiring lubrication. A main lubrication system normally provides lubricant to these components. It is desirable to also provide an emergency lubrication capability so that at least some components can be lubricated at least temporarily if the main lubrication system fails or operates abnormally. Irrespective of whether the main lubrication system is operating normally or not it may also be desirable to ensure that components are not starved of lubricant during reduced G conditions. Reduced G conditions are those in which G the acceleration due to gravity 9.8 meters sec. sec. is partially or entirely counteracted by aircraft maneuvers and or aircraft orientation.

A lubrication system includes an auxiliary lubricant tank and a supply conduit extending from a source of lubricant to the auxiliary lubricant tank the conduit having an outlet to the tank. The system also includes a reduced G bypass line branching from the conduit and entering the auxiliary tank at a first elevation. The system further includes an auxiliary tank discharge conduit a portion of which resides within the tank. The resident portion has an opening at least partially at a second elevation higher than the first elevation.

The foregoing and other features of the various embodiments of the lubrication system described herein will become more apparent from the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

Referring to a reduction gear train suitable for use in an aircraft gas turbine engine includes a sun gear driven by a sun gear input shaft a ring gear radially outboard of the sun gear and connected to a ring gear output shaft and a set of intermediate gears radially intermediate and meshing with the sun and ring gears. Each intermediate gear circumscribes a journal pin . A thin replenishable film of lubricant not shown occupies a small annular space between each intermediate gear and its journal pin to support the intermediate gear. This arrangement is referred to as a journal bearing. The journal pins are all supported by a carrier . The carrier interconnects the journal pins with each other and by doing so also interconnects the intermediate gears to each other. A lubricant recovery gutter circumscribes the ring gear.

In the gear train shown in the sun and ring gears are each rotatable about an axis . The carrier is nonrotatable even though the individual intermediate gears are each rotatable about their respective axes . Such a system is referred to as a star system. As seen best in the input and output shafts counterrotate. Lubricant flows through the gear system to support the intermediate gears on the journal pins and to lubricate and cool the gear teeth. The used lubricant expelled by the gear train enters the gutter by various paths which include lubricant slots .

Alternatively as seen in the sun gear and carrier are rotatable about the axis . The ring gear is nonrotatable. The carrier is connected to an output shaft. Such a system is referred to as a planetary system. The input and output shafts co rotate as indicated in . Finally all three components may be rotatable about axis so that dual output shafts connected to the carrier and the ring gear counterrotate with respect to each other.

Many of the engine components including the gears are able to tolerate lubricant starvation for brief intervals of time. However the journal pins are far less tolerant of lubricant starvation. Accordingly whether the gear system is configured as a star a planetary or with all three gears rotatable it is desirable to ensure that lubricant flows to the journal pins at least temporarily under all conditions. The temporary lubricant supply allows time for normal operation to resume or for the engine to be shut down before significant damage can occur.

An auxiliary tank supply conduit extends from the gutter to the auxiliary tank . The gutter serves as a source of lubricant for the tank. A main bypass line branches from the supply conduit at a junction and extends to the sump . An auxiliary tank discharge conduit extends from the auxiliary tank to the auxiliary pump. An auxiliary pump discharge line extends from the auxiliary pump to the pressure responsive valve. A main tank return line extends from the valve to the main lubricant tank . A lubricant delivery pathway extends from the main pump through the various lubricant reconditioning components and ultimately to the gears and other components . A lubricant return pathway extends from the components to the sump . A portion of the delivery pathway leads to the pressure responsive valve . A journal pin delivery line extends from the valve to the journal pins .

It should be appreciated that the above description and the schematic illustration and are highly simplified in comparison to an actual lubrication system. For example an actual system may have multiple lubricant conduits lines pathways pumps etc. corresponding to each of the components discussed above and illustrated.

The lubrication system is operable in both normal and abnormal states of operation. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that normal operation refers to the expected trouble free state of operation in which the lubrication system substantially meets its design specification. For example the normal state is a state of operation in which the system delivers lubricant at the rates temperatures pressures etc. determined by the designer so that the lubricated components including the gears and journal pins receive a quantity of lubricant enabling them to operate as intended. The skilled artisan will also appreciate that abnormal operation refers to a state of operation other than the normal state.

During normal operation rotation of the gears expels lubricant radially outwardly and with a high tangential velocity into the lubricant recovery gutter . The supply conduit which branches substantially tangentially off the gutter as seen in captures the expelled lubricant. A large portion of the lubricant flows through the main bypass line and returns to the sump . A smaller portion of the lubricant flows into the auxiliary tank to establish or replenish a reserve quantity of lubricant therein. The auxiliary pump pumps lubricant from the tank to the pressure responsive valve . Concurrently the scavenge pump extracts lubricant from the sump and delivers it to the main tank . The main pump pumps the lubricant from the tank to the reconditioning components . Most of the reconditioned lubricant then flows to the gears and other components . The remainder of the lubricant flows to the pressure responsive valve. The valve responding to normal pressure in the lubrication system directs this remaining lubricant to the journal pins and directs reserve lubricant received from the auxiliary pump to the main tank .

Referring now to immediately after the onset of abnormal operation e.g. due to a severe leak clog or malfunction of a system component the lubricant pressure drops such that an unsatisfactorily reduced quantity of lubricant flows through the lubricant delivery pathway . In response to the abnormally low pressure the pressure responsive valve shunts the reserve lubricant received from the auxiliary pump to the journal pins to ensure that the pins receive lubricant at least temporarily. The gear system at first continues to expel a large quantity of lubricant into the gutter. As with normal operation a large portion of the lubricant flows through the main bypass line and returns to the sump . A smaller portion of the lubricant flows to the auxiliary tank to at least partially replenish the lubricant being withdrawn by the auxiliary pump.

If the abnormally low lubricant pressure persists the system reaches the state shown in . The quantity of lubricant circulating through the system is small enough that little or no lubricant backs up from the auxiliary tank and enters the main bypass line . Instead nearly all of the limited quantity of lubricant flows to the auxiliary pump and eventually back to the journal pins . This state of operation persists until the tank is depleted and the flow rate from the gutter is insufficient to replenish it.

Although the above described system is satisfactory during normal G operation it may be desirable to extend such satisfactory operability to reduced G conditions irrespective of whether the lubricant pressure is normal or is abnormally low . Reduced G conditions include positive G conditions materially less than 9.8 meters sec. sec. particularly when such conditions result in an inability of the main lubricant system to satisfy the lubrication requirements of the gears journal pins and other components requiring lubrication. Reduced G conditions also include non positive G conditions i.e. zero G and negative G conditions. Reduced G conditions can arise from aircraft maneuvers and or aircraft orientation.

The system also includes an auxiliary tank discharge conduit . The discharge conduit has an arcuate profile with radially inner and outer boundaries . A portion of the conduit resides within the tank. The resident portion has an opening along the conduit inner boundary for allowing lubricant transfer between the tank and the conduit. The opening may take any convenient form. For example the opening may be a single opening such as a hole or a slot extending along the conduit. The illustrated opening is an array of perforations . The perforations may all have the same area however as explained below it may be desirable for the area of the individual perforations to decrease or at least not increase with decreasing elevation. The opening whatever form it takes is at least partially at a second elevation Ehigher than the first elevation E. For example in the illustrated perforated variant at least some of the perforations are higher than E.

As used herein elevation refers to distance or height above a reference height H no higher than the bottom of the tank when the system is in the orientation seen in i.e. an orientation representative of the engine or aircraft being on level ground or in straight and level flight.

During normal positive G operation G approximately equal to 9.8 m sec. sec. with normal lubricant pressure lubricant enters the auxiliary tank principally by way of the outlet although some lubricant may enter the tank by flowing through the bypass line and its outlet . During normal positive G operation with abnormally low lubricant pressure the valve if present may close so that lubricant still flowing through the conduit enters the tank by way of the bypass line . Either way the lubricant exits the tank through the auxiliary tank discharge conduit after first passing through the opening represented by perforations .

During reduced G operation particularly zero G or negative G the lubricant pressure may be low enough that a reduced quantity of lubricant including no lubricant flows through the supply conduit . The low lubricant pressure may result from a malfunction in the lubrication system or it may occur because the reduced G s have lifted lubricant away from the outlet of the main tank in a system that is otherwise fully functional. The flapper valve if present closes. Lubricant still circulating in the system is impelled through supply conduit as a result of the tangential velocity imparted to the lubricant by the rotation of the gears. That lubricant enters the tank by way of the bypass line and its outlet . For negative G operation the lubricant will migrate toward the top of the tank. However because the array of perforations is at least partially at an elevation Ehigher than outlet elevation E the lubricant can enter the discharge conduit by way of the perforations . Because the lubricant migrates toward the top of the tank during negative G operation there will be a tendency for the auxiliary pump to extract air from the bottom of the tank rather than lubricant from the top of the tank. This tendency can be partially counteracted if the perforations are of decreasing area with decreasing elevation. The lubricant is encouraged to enter the discharge conduit partly because of the negative G s and partly due to suction created by the auxiliary pump . Because the conduit is arcuate the lubricant will tend to accumulate along the radially outer boundary of the conduit so that it can be extracted by the pump . For zero G operation the system operates similarly except that the lubricant will tend to float and will not be able to enter the conduit as readily.

The system also includes an auxiliary tank discharge conduit . The discharge conduit may be a component physically distinct from the supply conduit and connected thereto by a fitting or other appropriate connection as shown. Alternatively the discharge conduit may be an integral extension or continuation of the supply conduit with the interface between the conduits being for example at the location where the continuous conduit penetrates into the auxiliary tank . The conduit extends continuously and without interruption through the tank.

The discharge conduit has an arcuate profile with radially inner and outer boundaries . A portion of the discharge conduit resides within the tank. The resident portion has an opening along the conduit inner boundary for allowing lubricant transfer between the tank and the conduit. The opening may take any convenient form. For example the opening may be a single opening such as a hole or a slot extending along the conduit. The illustrated opening is an array of perforations . The perforations may all have the same area. However as explained above it may be desirable for the area of the individual perforations to decrease or at least not increase with decreasing elevation in order to reduce the tendency for the pump to extract air rather than lubricant during negative G operation.

As used herein elevation refers to distance or height above a reference height H no higher than the bottom of the tank when the system is in the orientation seen in i.e. an orientation representative of the engine or aircraft being on level ground or in straight and level flight.

During normal positive G operation G approximately equal to 9.8 m sec. sec. with normal lubricant pressure lubricant delivered by supply conduit flows through the perforations to establish a reserve quantity of lubricant in the auxiliary tank . Excess lubricant flows through the discharge conduit to the auxiliary pump . During positive G operation with abnormally low lubricant pressure the quantity of lubricant circulating through the lubrication system is typically reduced relative to the normal quantity in the limit the reduced quantity may be zero . The reduced quantity flows into the discharge conduit and adds to residual lubricant in the tank and or flows through the discharge conduit to the auxiliary pump.

During reduced G operation particularly zero G or negative G the lubricant pressure may be low enough that a reduced quantity of lubricant including no lubricant flows through the supply conduit . The low lubricant pressure may result from a malfunction in the lubrication system or it may occur because the reduced G s have lifted lubricant away from the outlet of the main tank in a system that is otherwise fully functional. Lubricant still circulating in the system is impelled through supply conduit as a result of the tangential velocity imparted to the lubricant by the rotation of the gears. That lubricant flows from the supply conduit into the discharge conduit . For negative G operation any lubricant already in the tank migrates toward the top of the tank. The perforations admit this lubricant to the discharge conduit to augment any lubricant arriving from the supply conduit . The lubricant in the tank is encouraged to enter the discharge conduit partly because of the negative G s and partly due to suction created by the auxiliary pump . Because the conduit is arcuate the lubricant will tend to accumulate along the radially outer boundary of the conduit so that it can be extracted by the pump . For zero G operation the system operates similarly except that the lubricant will tend to float and will not be able to enter the conduit as readily.

Although this disclosure refers to specific embodiments of the lubrication system it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the subject matter set forth in the accompanying claims.

