---

title: Electrical connector configured as a fastening element
abstract: A carton-centric security system that uniquely combines a low-cost version of the rugged connector technology and a novel smart skin is provided. The carton-centric security system includes RF electronics for communication. The system can fully meet the homeland security need to autonomously seal, secure, and monitor the integrity of shipping cartons/parcels below the ISO intermodal shipping container level. The system can seal the contents of a shipping carton within a “smart skin/wrapper,” which physically surrounds the contents, monitors the physical integrity of the shipping carton and detects any intrusion into the carton. In case of an intrusion, the system provides notification of the intrusion of the carton or tampering with the carton security system, including alteration of the carton contents, theft or unauthorized removal of the entire carton.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07556532&OS=07556532&RS=07556532
owner: Physical Optics Corporation
number: 07556532
owner_city: Torrance
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061221
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 190 697 filed Jul. 27 2005 and claims priority therefrom.

The invention described herein was made with Government support under contract W911QY 04 C 0038 awarded by the U.S.A. Soldier Systems Center in which the Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to a connector configured as a fastening element. Some embodiments are in the form of a wearable smart electrical connector and associated connector system in the form of a modular network which for the first time integrates electronics into protective clothing in a body conformable and comfortable fashion. It has these unique features wearability compatible with existing and future military civilian vests uniforms a button like snap fastener that can be snapped and unsnapped blindly with one hand and resilience to harsh temperature humidity chemicals water and laundering. Another embodiment is employed in a carton centric system to indicate tampering with the carton during transit.

Electronic devices are being miniaturized for personal use but no comprehensive connector technology exists to integrate them into clothing in order to integrate electronics into clothing in a body conformable and comfortable fashion. The present invention comprises a wearable connector element and interconnects for it satisfying the need for body conformability comfort specific environmental stability to harsh weather and laundering and mission specificity as well as a real world architecture for military and non military garments.

There is a need for a secure system to ensure that the integrity of a shipping carton within an intermodal shipping container International Standards Organization has not been compromised during shipment. Current carton security systems do not meet homeland security needs and require bulky electronics and specialized shipping cartons with hard cases and traditional switch activated intrusion alarm systems.

The present invention comprises an entirely wearable electrical connector for power data connectivity. The principal element of the network is the wearable electrical connector which is integrated into a personal area network PAN with USB compatibility. In general the network layered architecture corresponds to four Open Systems Interconnect OSI layers physical layer 1 data link layer 2 intra PAN network layer 3 inter PAN and application layer 4 interface. Our effort focused on layer 1 connector and interconnects and intra PAN layer 2.

Progressively more mature wearable connector prototypes were developed. The first an O ring based prototype was subsequently replaced by a more mature second prototype which is based on a novel anisotropic pressure sensitive conductive elastomer. Both are snap style low profile 360 moving round blind operable plug and play reconfigurable wearable connectors with power data daisy lattice style connectivity. A third embodiment comprises a non conductive elastomeric environmental seal. A fourth embodiment utilizes a self actioning automatic shutter type environmental seal. A fifth embodiment reduces the dimensions of the connector to that of a conventional snap fastener commonly used on clothing and employs an iris like sealing mechanism.

The wearable connector network connectivity and a personal area GPS medical network on a military style vest have been demonstrated including the following features 

The present invention represents the first fully functional wearable connector with three major unique features wearability and compatibility with conformability to existing and future military civilian vests uniforms snap fastener button like style so that it can be snapped and unsnapped blindly with one hand mechanical stability and resilience not only in standard environments of temperature and humidity but also to aggressive chemicals water and laundering.

The present technology will also benefit many outside the military especially public safety personnel such as police fire EMT and other services that require special protective clothing integrated with multiple electronic devices. Other applications include special clothing for the disabled prisoners the mentally ill and children. Outdoor computer game commercial applications are also obvious candidates to benefit from the disclosed technology. These wearable connector technology can be both retrofitted into existing designs of protective clothing and added to new uniform vest designs.

The wearable connector of the invention is also disclosed herein in an embodiment suitable for use in ensuring the integrity of cartons in shipping containers. A connector of the present invention is used in conjunction with a conductive ink smart skin distributed throughout the carton surface and terminating at the connector which in effect closes the circuit formed by the paths of conductive ink. The connector is only about one centimeter in diameter in the preferred embodiment for this application. Nevertheless it is designed to contain two Wheatstone bridges a battery an alarm latch and an RFID device to communicate a binary alarm signal to the outside world i.e. shipping container RFID device .

The electrical connector chosen for modular network is the wearable connector see . This connector is the result of several design and test iterations. The robust wearable electrical connector is capable of delivering both electrical power and electrical signals to devices connected to the body conformable network.

This connector is the first truly blind electrical connector developed for the wearable environment. The wearable snap connector can be engaged reliably in total darkness using only one bare or gloved hand and in one simple movement. The wearable snap connector does not have to be meticulously aligned before mating. In fact it has full 360 freedom in one plane see .

Mating the male and female halves of the wearable connector is simple and intuitive. Everyone is familiar with clothing in which snaps join segments of fabric. The wearable connector is simpler than zippers which often require the use of two hands or visual alignment . The snaps can be mated with only one hand and without the need for visual alignment. The inventive snap connector is identical to a traditional garment snap in the operational sense. No special training or skills are needed by personnel wearing modular network garments in order to attach or detach electrical devices.

The wearable snap connector has a low profile symmetrical round design which can be easily integrated into existing garments see . The housing of the wearable snap connector can be riveted or sewn into garments much as traditional snaps are currently affixed.

These styles of attachment give the wearable snap connector excellent protection against the rigors of wear and laundering. The electrical contacts of the wearable snap connector are protected against the elements and dry and liquid contaminants such as perspiration dirt water oil solvents laundry detergent and the like such as by an O ring a torus shaped mechanical component manufactured from an elastomeric material seal. O rings seal by deforming to the geometry of the cavity called a gland to which they are fitted. The O ring is then compressed during the fastening process to form a tight environmental seal. In one embodiment of wearable snap connector the radial seal around the circumference of the electrical connectors is formed by machining the circular gland near the outer rim of the connector body see . The O rings are 2 oversized for a robust interference fit within the gland.

Considerations in the design of this environmental seal include size and shape of the gland the size and shape of the O ring inner diameter minimum cross section diameter maximum cross section diameter cross section tolerance minimum compression and maximum compression and the material from which it is to be manufactured. Various elastomers may be utilized to form the O ring based upon their physical durability resistance to solvents and other chemicals and their temperature range. Silicone rubber was selected for the experimental prototype.

The wearable snap connector terminates the wearable electrical cable which forms the backbone of the body conformable network. This termination connection was made by soldering. Other methods such as insulation displacement connection may be employed.

The wearable snap connector pin contacts are spring loaded and self wiping see . Being compression spring loaded the wearable snap connector contact pins compensate for vibration twisting and turning of the connector keeping a constant pressure between the metallic contact surfaces within the two halves of the snap connector. Mill Max Manufacturing Corporation in Oyster Bay N.Y. manufactures the spring loaded pins with a minimum life of 100 000 cycles that were utilized to fabricate the prototype snap fastener connectors. Additional specifications of these contact spring loaded pins are presented in .

The oxides that can form on the surface of metallic contacts are wiped away by the mating action of the two halves of the snap connector. This action extends the time between manual contact cleanings and may even eliminate the need for such operations in some environments.

The connectors may be radio frequency interference RFI and electromagnetic interference EMI shielded as may the wearable cabling backbone. Decoupling capacitors and optionally metal oxide varistors MOVs can reduce and or eliminate disruptive electrical noise and harmful electrical spikes at the connection points.

The network is capable of carrying various types of electrical signals in addition to power. The electrical signal specifications listed in Table 2 1 are representative of the type of electrical signals that the invention is capable of transporting. This list is not all inclusive.

From these we selected the Universal Serial Bus USB version 2.0 specification to be used for the prototypes for both its high data rate and its compatibility with wearable data cabling. USB 2.0 480 Mbps capability is essential for high bandwidth visual communication such s 2.5 G and 3G RF wireless cellular and to transmit even VGA video 740 480 24 bpp 30 fps . One USB connector can support up to 127 USB devices such as sensors digital cameras cell phones GPS and PDAs personal digital assistants . The need to connect to a PC is completely eliminated. For example a digital camera could transfer pictures directly to a printer a PDA or microdisplay and become in effect a miniature PC. The USB protocol supports intelligence to tell the host what type of USB device is being attached and what needs to be done to support it. USB among other features 

In the near future efforts in the 802.15a ultrawideband area will lead to a USB 2.0 compliant wireless interface. For now only 802.15.3a as been defined for USB.

An enhancement to the wearable connector includes OSI Layer 2 and potentially Layer 3 functionality. We call this enhancement the Smart Self Contained Network enabled Apparel integrated multi Protocol Snap connector enhancement.

Data Link layer functionality is supported by including electronic serial numbers at the wearable snap connector points. These points serve as node connection points at Layer 2. Electronic serial numbers will serve as Media Access Control MAC addresses identifying devices attached anywhere within the network. This can serve not only to notify the network of a device being connected and disconnected but can also maintain a dynamic inventory of all modules attached to a network enabled garment. Since both halves of the wearable connector will have such MAC addresses even non network aware modules such as batteries or analog sensors can be identified for inventory and automatic configuration purposes. This also allows for the assignment of a Layer 3 address such as an Internet Protocol IP address to a personal area network PAN on a network enabled garment even when no other electronic devices are attached to any network nodes. This can locate inventory and address each individual PAN within a local area network LAN or within a wide area network WAN .

In a second embodiment the O ring is replaced with a conductive elastomer based sealing mechanism which seals not only when mated but also when unmated.

The invention also comprises the integration of the wearable snap connector with narrow fabric electrical cable conduits and their embedded conductors see . We enhanced self sealing capability by connector redesign.

Reflow soldering connects the individual wires from the narrow fabric cable to the interconnect contact pads on the PCBs in the snap connector as shown in .

Although one can manufacture woven e textile cables the connector is designed to fully integrate with existing narrow fabric cables in various configurations accommodating the existing form factor and electrical specifications as shown in . The female connector configuration can be varied to increase the degrees of freedom in the interconnectivity of devices within the network.

One can easily apply the highway analogy to the multiple configurations possible for the female portion of the wearable connector cabling subsystem. Sometimes only a dead end road is necessary like the one way female cable. In this case the connector terminated narrow fabric can be used for garment to device connection or garment to garment connection. At other times a through road is desirable. We want our vehicles power and data packets to be able to keep on going but we also want to allow the flexibility to exit or enter the road before it ends somewhere in the middle. The two way connector satisfies this need. Still at other times we need to exit or enter a highway junction from many directions. The three way and four way interconnects allow us to do just that. Like a highway interchange they allow power and data to flow in multiple directions within the network yet also allow data and power to enter or exit at the nexus of this super junction. The narrow fabric interconnects to the garment essentially become data superhighways which can distribute data and power to all parts of the garment reliably and elegantly in a body conformable configuration.

Male wearable connectors can also be in a stand alone configuration. Instead of terminating a narrow fabric cable that leads elsewhere they may go nowhere. A chemical biological physiological or environmental sensor or other device such as a haptic feedback stimulator see or emergency beacon can be integrated within one male connector. Such a microelectronic device can be housed in its entirety on the male connector so that a one can electrically connect and mechanically mount a miniature electronic or electromechanical device such as a sensor stimulator or beacon in one step simply by snapping it on. shows a small video camera that has a male connector built in.

In the second embodiment of the invention an anisotropic conductive rubber layer conducts electricity unidirectionally always in the vertical or Z axis. The directional conductivity results from relatively low volume loading of conductive filler. The low volume loading which is insufficient for interparticle contact prevents conductivity in the plane X and Y axes of the rubber sheet. This conductive rubber layer is placed between the substrates or surfaces to be electrically connected in this case the male and female PCB electrical contact surfaces see .

Application of pressure in the vertical direction to this stack causes conductive particles to be trapped between opposing conductors on the two halves of the connector see . This rubber matrix stabilizes the electrical connection mechanically which helps maintain the electrical contact between the PCB conductors and the conductive particles suspended in the rubber sheet. It both acts as a contact spring eliminating costly compression springs on each individual male contact pin and protects against both contact bounce during connection and momentary contact interruptions from vibration after mating. Anisotropic conductive products are now being used to connect flat panel displays and other fine pitch electronic devices. Another characteristic inherent in the rubber matrix is the hydrophobicity of the rubber matrix making it intrinsically water moistureproof a significant asset for the inventive connector.

Anisotropic conductive rubber comprising a rubber base compound and suspended conductive particles supports electrical contact between the conductive areas. The conductive rubber can be applied as a top surface layer in the connector see . The composition of the rubber compound can control the overall hardness of the conductive rubber layer.

The rubber compound is made of room temperature cured rubber accelerants and precision silver coated glass microspheres. We have experimented with different ratios of silver coated glass microspheres and rubber compounds to optimize conductivity.

Regardless of the ultimate source the conductive rubber sheet will not only form an environmental seal for the connector contacts protecting them from moisture dirt abrasion solvents and other contaminants but by reducing oxidation and fretting will also extend the lifetime number of usable mating and demating cycles .

The exact hardness of the conductive rubber layer will be determined by the strength of the torsion spring that keeps the male and female halves of the wearable connector mated. A 60 A shore durometer hardness was required for the prototype. Manufacture and installation of the conductive rubber sheets is simple and not expensive. One may design a nonconductive support structure for the conductive rubber sheeting similar to the function of rebar in concrete structures to further strengthen the conductive rubber sheet by reducing friability and wear from repeated compression and decompression cycles.

The invention s power and data network is formed by integrating wearable connectors and e textile cabling. This new network can be dynamically reconfigured by daisy chaining individual snap connectors with e textile cable segments see .

A network can be detached easily from the garment because each wearable connector can be attached only by snaps rather than being permanently affixed. Some of the major advantages of this removable arrangement are 

A carton centric system called Secure Parcel ISO Distributed Enhanced RFID SPIDER will enhance the Advanced Container Security Device and radio frequency identification ACSD and RFID tag technologies and can be retrofitted to existing shipping cartons and or parcels including those consisting of boxboard or corrugated cardboard and is flexible enough to be integrated with all future secure shipping carton technologies. illustrates the architectural relationships among the proposed security layers SL SL SL and SL . We see that the physical skin arming and monitoring intra carton SL is entirely all carton centric.

The Turn key Alarm and Reporting System TARS SL is RFID ACSD compatible including local communication between carton RFID tags and the ISO container ACSD. It is inter carton and intra ACSD for one bit alarming within the ACSD in the event of either disarming or tampering with the carton. The removal or destruction of the TARS electronics will be detected and indicated with an alarm by the ISO container s RFID ACSD system as will disarming the SL itself irrespective of whether or not the disarming was authorized. After this the system can be rearmed and used again. The SL TARS will be packaged within a unique Smart Connector Interface Armor SCIA based on the above disclosed wearable connector technology. It can be integrated with carton based RFIDs.

The major advantage of the SPIDER system is that its smart skin or SL is implanted inside the carton body in an integrated and concealed way see and is easy to mass produce. The smart skin consists of a thin five layer sandwich a protective outer layer a layer imprinted with parallel conductive ink traces an insulating layer a layer imprinted with conductive ink traces perpendicular to those in the second layer and a final inner protective layer. This is in contrast to the wires in the security systems of Wal Mart Target and others which must be mechanically damaged to sound an alarm. When the SPIDER web skin is damaged even slightly by breaking a single path which is unavoidable in even slight tampering similar to tearing cloth the SL sets off what is in effect a silent alarm.

The SPIDER carton centric security system uniquely combines a low cost version of ruggedized inventive connector technology and a novel carton security system arming monitoring local communication RF electronics. The SPIDER system is depicted in . The SPIDER system will fully meet the homeland security need to autonomously seal secure and monitor the integrity of shipping cartons parcels below the ISO intermodal shipping container level. The SPIDER system will seal the contents of a shipping carton within a smart skin wrapper which physically surrounds the contents monitors the physical integrity of the shipping carton and detects any intrusion into the carton providing notification of violation of the carton or tampering with the SPIDER security system including alteration addition subtraction replacement of the carton contents or even theft or unauthorized removal of the entire carton or addition of an unauthorized one being monitored protected by SPIDER. The SPIDER system will ensure complete end to end shipping carton parcel integrity verification with no specialized knowledge or training required of any of the shipping and receiving personnel i.e. turn key activation arming and monitoring . Any penetration of the SPIDER smart skin wrapper or tampering with the TARS electronics including the embedded RFID technology will be immediately detected and indicated by the security violation alarm latched into the TARS electronics in a tamperproof fashion. The RFID scanner to interrogate the TARS and report carton status can be located outside the ISO shipping container e.g. handheld loading dock mounted truck mounted .

The SPIDER smart skin carton lining subsystem will be fabricated from thin sheets of slightly elastomeric plastic material as a substrate to support a two dimensional 2D matrix of electrically resistive conductive ink wires forming an electrical cage around the carton s contents. This electrically active part will be surrounded on both sides by a thin dielectric layer to protect against the environment. This 2D smart matrix subsystem will be fabricated in two versions flexible as e paper and rigid as e boxboard to protect both cartons and parcels. The smart skin matrix will be monitored by electronics which will be embedded in the inventive snap fastener connector which can be operated blind and single handed and will be used to close the loop of the smart skin electrical cage around the carton s contents engage and arm the TARS alarm system and report the carton s integrity to an ACSD or to an external RFID scanner via an electronic one bit alarm system SL embedded into the TARS connector. For detection of tampering the smart skin 2D net will be constructed of 5 mm square cells forming a 2D matrix of conductive ink paths CIPs with 1 3 mil 75 m 500 m rectangular cross sections. The CIP material is carbon derivative with controlled density so that the specific resistance can be adjusted to tune the 1 W total power consumption with 5 s pulses this enables the system to operate on low cost minibatteries within the connector which resembles a small button 18 mm in diameter or a clothing snap fastener.

It should be emphasized that typical electrical resistive wires are unsuitable because of their poor mechanical stability and low smart skin conformability. The CIP approach used in SPIDER does not share these deficiencies and instead has the following unique advantages a High mechanical stability b Tunable electrical resistivity c Binary response d Transmittivity under X ray inspection if needed and e High mass productability.

While the first two advantages are rather apparent the third explained in detail hereinafter is due to the fact that unless the CIP is completely broken its resistance preserves nearly its original value. Therefore the electrical response to a CIP breaking is almost binary. So a precise Wheatstone electrical bridge circuit ensures the sensitivity and stability to the TARS sensing electronics. The fourth advantage is due to the fact that the CIP carbon derivatives are virtually transparent to X rays in contrast to most metallic compounds. The fifth advantage is due to well established low cost mass production web imprinting for fabrication of the SPIDER smart skin.

The printed electrical cage PEC See is a critical aspect of SPIDER protecting the carton against tampering. It consists of a square network of conductive paths with very low baseline electrical currents that would be altered by tampering. This 2D net consists of two sandwiched nets. Consider one such 1D SPIDER net. It consists of a parallel set of uniformly distributed resistive paths fabricated from carbon based conductive ink paths CIP . Consider such a CIP in the form of a rectangular cross section bar with length L 1 m height h 75 m and width W 500 m illustrated in . Such a path is only 3 mil 75 m high because it is web imprinted on a slightly elastic substrate for good stickiness. The process is similar to web press printing where the height of the ink is also quite low.

From we have R L hw where L 1 m h 75 m and w 500 m while is tuned to satisfy the electrical balance conditions where is resistivity or specific resistance in m. It is not easily achievable by other techniques such as metal wires. is not to scale because L w h. In our case we assume s 5 mm it can be smaller if needed and 200 CIPs cover the 1 m 1 m area.

The conductive path is also from conductive ink but with much higher material density. In the case of 1D SPIDER net the total resistance R is 1 R n R or R R n where n 200 and total power consumption of a single CIP is assumed to be 1 W to minimize power consumption thus for v 1 V 

Thus the specific resistance of the CIP or its resistivity in m is 1.875 10 which is five orders of magnitude higher than that of copper for which 0m . Therefore the tunability of CIP resistivity is very high an extremely useful feature to minimize SPIDER power consumption and maximize system sensitivity.

The major challenge for the PEC Printed Electrical Cage design is to minimize power consumption and at the same time to maximize PEC sensitivity to tampering. For PEC purposes the minimum tampering is breaking a single CIP which will create the minimum current change I. The total 1D PEC current I is nI where I u R and n 200 with u 1V. Thus I is substituting by n 1 for n leading to I I square root over P R where P 1 W and R 10 thus I 10A which is a reasonable value easy to achieve with a Wheatstone bridge as discussed below.

The electrical power consumption is also very low because the PEC signals are in 1 ms 200 W pulses with an energy of 2 10J generated in 1 s periods i.e. with a 1 1000 duty cycle . Since a year consists of 315 million seconds the total time of such pulses is 315 000 seconds per year which yields only a 126 mWs energy consumption per year for two 1D SPIDER nets forming a single 1 m 1 m 2D SPIDER net which is extremely low power consumption even for mini batteries typical value 100 mWh .

The SPIDER binary response is a rather unexpected feature for the CIP and PEC. This is because tampering reduces the CIP cross section by damaging the CIP while the Rvalue remains almost unchanged. To show this consider a partially damaged CIP as in .

The SPIDER connector will close the circuit arming the PEC system. This single hand operable low cost blind connector is specially configured for SPIDER purposes including such components as two SPIDER Wheatstone bridges a miniature battery latching storage for alarm recording and RFIDs to send a binary alarm signal to the container RFID. The SPIDER connector will have the form factor of a coin 1 cm in diameter and 3 mm in height connected into the 2D SPIDER PEC net. Since the Wheatstone bridge balance condition is RR RR we assume the particular case R R R R R where Ris the resistance of an undamaged 1D SPIDER net . Then for the balanced bridge case the total resistance R is equal to R and the power consumption of the bridge is four times that of the PEC or 800 W i.e. still very low because of the low duty cycle electrical pulse voltage supply.

All of the SPIDER electronics except for the smart skin will be housed inside the electrical snap connector.

This snap connector functions as both the mechanical closure and the electrical arming mechanism. For SL 1 security the increase in the total resistance of the smart skin is measured by means of a sensitive proportional balance electronic circuit known as a Wheatstone bridge as illustrated in .

This measurement configuration will enable the SPIDER to detect even small changes in the total resistance of the smart skin with enough sensitivity to detect even a single violated trace in the smart skin matrix. This is accomplished by placing the digital equivalent of a galvanometer across the bridge circuit which is balanced nulled at the time of arming the SPIDER protected carton after it has been filled at the point of origin by setting digital potentiometers to the values necessary to establish zero voltage across the middle of the bridge. After arming balancing any change in the resistance of the smart skin will unbalance the Wheatstone bridge and produce a measurable voltage across the digital galvanometer thereby activating an alarm condition indicating that the smart skin and therefore the carton being protected has been violated.

Level SL security includes an RFID chip the smart skin sensing electronics the alarm activation electronics anti static protection circuitry the RFID interface electronics and a button cell battery such as an Eveready CR 1025. The electronics to perform this will be provided as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or FPGA . The working prototype will use discrete surface mount components and commercial off the shelf ASICs such as the S2C hybrid ASIC from CYPAK in Sweden which includes a 13.56 MHz RFID interface on board the ASIC. ASICs such as these can be mounted naked for low component profile 0.25 mm and low real estate 1.0 cm on the SPIDER smart connector PCB and can operate from 200 to 400 C.

For SL security protection SPIDER s delay generator and associated communications electronics will also be in the snap connector. Inside the body of the snap connector is a printed circuit board PCB which can be fabricated from standard FR 4 PCB material or from flexible PCB materials. All electronic components plus the terminals from the smart skin matrix will be soldered to this PCB. The cap and base snap connector pieces which form the snap connector housing will be formed of RF transparent materials so as not to interfere with operation of the RFID subsystem possibly even using this surface area to print an RFID antenna in conductive ink. These pieces can be made by injection molding at extremely low cost.

Low cost manufacturing by injection molding and wave soldering will mean that the SPIDER electronics can be discarded with the shipping carton after unpacking. Recovery operations for recycling the SPIDER electronics could also be employed for environmental reasons.

The flexible slightly elastomeric substrate base for the smart skin is available on 300 ft. rolls as a film and can be imprinted with the conductive ink traces by web printing. For example PET polyester is a durable yet biodegradable substrate at a tenth the cost of polyamide and can be processed into the SPIDER smart skin in this fashion. PET has very good dielectric properties and has low moisture absorption making it ideal for use in shipping containers. As rolls of the raw substrate enter the web press controlled amounts of high resistance carbon based conductive ink are deposited at regular intervals across the width of the substrate by pneumatic dispensers and set by pressure rollers. As the substrate proceeds from the supply drum to the take up drum evenly spaced lines of conductive ink are formed along the length of the substrate. Laminating two such sections of imprinted film substrate with one of them rotated 90 degrees forms the crosshatch smart skin matrix.

Having thus disclosed preferred embodiments of the present invention it will now be apparent that the illustrated examples may be readily modified without deviating from the inventive concepts presented herein. By way of example the precise shape dimensions and layout of the connectors and connector pins may be altered while still achieving the function and performance of a wearable smart electrical connector. Accordingly the scope hereof is to be limited only by the appended claims and their equivalents.

