---

title: Tools for defining and using custom analysis modules
abstract: Tools for defining and using custom analysis modules are presented. A generic graphical user interface (GUI) custom analysis tool is presented to a user. The generic GUI custom analysis tool is adapted to receive selections and inputs from the user that define many-to-many relationships in a data store and that include user-defined measures. The inputs are used to generate an instance of a custom analysis module that is capable of being processed against the data store. The instance of the custom analysis module may be stored, recalled, executed, and/or modified from the generic GUI custom analysis tool.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032566&OS=08032566&RS=08032566
owner: Teradata US, Inc.
number: 08032566
owner_city: Dayton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061204
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the example screen shots and images as described below and in any drawings hereto Copyright 2006 NCR Corp. of Dayton Ohio All Rights Reserved.

The invention relates generally to data store processing and more particularly to techniques for data mining by defining and using custom analysis modules.

Enterprises are increasingly capturing storing and mining a plethora of information related to communications with their customers. Often this information is stored and indexed within databases. Once the information is indexed queries are developed on an as needed basis to mine the information from the database for a variety of organizational goals.

Typically these queries or mining applications are limited to pre defined customer segments represented as hierarchical relationships within the database. But data mining constrained to pre defined hierarchical relationships can only produce relevant information within the context of these pre defined relationships. In other words newly discovered relationships of importance must be manually represented within the pre existing relationships before the information related to the new relationships can be explored within the database.

Also the queries or mining applications often rely on pre existing measures many of which come pre packaged as features of a particular database s Application Programming Interface API . Yet frequently an analyst may have a unique situation that necessitates aggregated measures or even new measures. In these cases the analyst typically requests that a developer custom produce the needed measures. This results in lost time and increases an enterprise s expense. Furthermore if the time lag is substantial the desired measure may become worthless or meaningless as events in the marketplace transpire or time sensitive opportunities are lost.

Finally the queries and mining applications are often executed or produced using different tools and interfaces. Thus an analyst has to use or become fluent in multiple tools or interfaces to effectively achieve a desired query or mining application.

Moreover some tasks that the analyst may need to do to produce a desired query or mining application may result in using multiple different aspects of a same tool or interface. In other words the needed features are not integrated in a seamless manner within the same tool or interface that the analyst uses.

Thus it can be seen that improved mechanisms tools and or interfaces for producing and using applications associated with database analysis are desirable.

In various embodiments tools for defining and using custom analysis modules are presented. According to an embodiment a method for operating a custom analysis tool is presented. A generic graphical user interface GUI analysis tool is presented. Fields are provided within the generic GUI analysis tool to receive one or more schema and segment relationships an analysis type a profile name and one or more user defined measures. Moreover selections or inputs are received for each of the fields and the selections or inputs are communicated to a driver service that builds an instance of a customized analysis module. The instance of the customized analysis module can be processed against a data store when a particular one of inputs that identifies the profile name is referenced.

A data store as used herein may include a database a collection of databases organized as a data warehouse a directory a collection of directories cooperating with one another or various combinations of the same. According to an embodiment the data store is a Teradata warehouse product or service distributed by NCR Corporation of Dayton Ohio.

The data store includes a variety of enterprise information. One type of information is referred to as an entity. An entity is something that can be uniquely identified e.g. a customer account a customer name a household name a logical grouping of certain types of customers etc. .

A table within the data store may include a schema that defines the relationship between one or more elements in the data store. For example the relationship between data store element household to element individual and to element account household individual account . The schema defines the fields or elements of the data store. The data store includes a plurality of different tables and different schema s. Schema relationships may be hierarchical or many to many relationships.

 Segmentation refers to relationships that are defined for a particular population that may be the target of a communication sent from an enterprise. For example a segment may define all males over the age of 18 in the Raleigh N.C. area. Segments can be predefined within the data store or can be dynamically defined and acquired via queries against the data store. Cross Segment refers to analyzing measures at the intersections of multiple different segments.

An analysis module refers to a data store application that is designed to perform one or more queries and or other operations on data acquired from the data store. The analysis module may be directed to achieve some form of desired analysis by an enterprise. Some example analysis types include but are not limited to behavior trend analysis cross segmentation analysis pattern detection percentile profiling product or service affinity analysis and the like.

A measure is a calculation or set of calculations performed against data returned from the data store. Measures as used herein may be pre existing within an API of the data store or may be user defined. An example measure may be to take the average purchase amount from a given set of data associated with customers. Measures can be simple or complex and involve multiple operations some of which rely on prior processed operations. One or more measures are referenced or used within any given analysis module.

It is within this context that the processing associated with the custom analysis interface service is now described in detail with reference to the .

At the custom analysis interface service is used to present a generic GUI analysis tool to a user. The custom analysis interface service may present the generic GUI analysis tool from within another service or system such as but not limited to the Teradata products and services distributed by NCR Corporation of Dayton Ohio.

In an embodiment a user selects an option within a service to process the generic GUI analysis tool. This prompts the custom analysis interface service to present the generic GUI analysis tool to the user within a display being viewed by the user.

In another case the custom analysis interface service is selected or initiated by the user or by another service that is being directed by the user. This results in the custom analysis interface service presenting the generic GUI analysis tool to the user.

At the custom analysis interface service provides the generic GUI analysis tool with a variety of fields. Some fields include selections that the user may make from an available list of selections. Other fields permit the user to browse directories or data sources for files or information. Still other fields permit the user to manually type information into them. Each field is designed to receive information from the user. Some fields may be mandatory while other fields may be optional. Policy or configuration may drive what fields are considered mandatory and what fields are considered to be optional.

At least some fields are designed to receive selections or inputs representing one or more schema and segment relationships an analysis type a profile name and one or more user defined measures. The schema and segment relationships define element to element or many to many relationships. That is any entity or element defined within a schema or segment of a data store can have a relationship with another entity or element of a different schema same schema different segment or same segment. At least one field is designed to receive at least one such relationship. The relationship may be defined via options associated with the generic GUI analysis tool in a dynamic and user defined manner. Alternatively existing relationships may be selected from lists. The lists may be dynamically populated based on other selections and inputs supplied by the user such as selections or inputs for the analysis type.

The analysis type can define a variety of types of analysis such as but not limited to behavior trend analysis cross segment analysis pattern detection percentile profiling or product affinity analysis. Each of these is discussed herein and below in greater detail with reference to the example screen shots presented in . Moreover it is noted that other analysis types may be used as well. The selection or input of an analysis type within the generic GUI analysis tool may also dynamically drive changes in the fields for the tool to reflect what is needed for the particular analysis type desired. It may also be the case that a user accessed different screens of the generic GUI analysis tool by selecting an initial analysis type such that when a screen is presented to the user it includes the desired analysis type and the appropriate fields associated with that analysis type.

The profile name is a user selected or inputted value that is used as an identifier for the custom analysis module being developed. In some cases the user may browse a data store or list or even may search a data store or list for a pre existing profile name. When this occurs the pre existing profile name and selections and inputs associated with it are automatically populated into the fields of the generic GUI analysis tool. The profile name may be viewed as a label or identifier for the custom analysis module being interactively and dynamically developed.

The user defined measures represent single or aggregate calculations or operations defined by a user or previously defined by a user and acquired via searching browsing etc. from a list or data store. The operations or calculations may be chained together in aggregate or script like format within a single measure. Some example calculations may include but in no way are limited to averages highs lows etc. for a given data corpus or value s within a data corpus.

According to an embodiment at the generic GUI analysis tool may also provide a variety of additional fields such as fields for text descriptions that provide information about what the profile name or custom analysis modules does. There may also be fields for a variety of temporal restrictions e.g. date time of day day of week month year etc. . Additionally a specific schema or element may be provided as one or more fields within the generic GUI analysis tool or a filter script name may be supplied to process. In still another case a field may represent a date range. Examples of these and other fields are provided below with reference to the .

At the custom analysis interface service dynamically receives selections or inputs for each field or for each field that is mandatory for a given analysis type and any desired optional fields being used. These are supplied by a user interacting with the generic GUI analysis tool. These selections and inputs are then supplied to a driver service or processing engine. The driver service builds an instance of a custom analysis module that is defined or derived at least in part from the selections and inputs supplied by the user to the generic GUI analysis tool.

At this point the user may save the instance of the custom analysis module via the generic GUI analysis tool by associating it with a particular input supplied with the profile name field. The profile name may now be used and referenced to acquire and process the instance of the custom analysis module produced by the driver service or the processing engine. It is noted that the association may be temporarily noted and saved in memory even before any explicit save occurs with the profile name. Moreover the processing engine may save the association automatically or the user may have to explicitly request the save. In cases where the association is not automatically saved the user may be warned before existing a session if the user has not elected to perform the save.

According to an embodiment at the user may use the generic GUI analysis tool to instruct it to process the custom analysis module against a data store which may also be defined already in the custom analysis module . The generic GUI analysis tool processes or causes to process the custom analysis module against the data store and then displays the results returned as an interactive graphic presentation to the user within the tool. The interactive graphic illustration may be interacted with in a number of real time and dynamic manners by the user. The illustration may be a grid a table a chart or any combination of these things that permit the results to be visually depicted and interacted with. Examples of this can be visualized with the discussed herein and below.

In some cases at the position of the interactive graphic illustration relative to the initial presented generic GUI analysis tool may be above or below vertical the tool to the right or left horizontal to the tool or may be even user defined relative to a location of the tool. This permits the user to simultaneously visualize the results with the selections and inputs associated with the custom analysis tool displayed in the tool. Essentially the user may be given control to display and view different parts of the results in different manners and can simultaneously see the corresponding input selections.

In an embodiment at the custom analysis interface service permits portions of the interactive graphic illustration that is presented to be interactively and dynamically selected by the user. Once selected the details or information associated with the results that underlie the interactive graphic illustration at the selected portions or locations are increased or decreased depending upon instruction from the user. So the user may drill down into more detailed information or pan out to more generic and high level information for any selected portion of the interactive graphic illustration. Again the interactive graphic illustration reflects the results from executing the custom analysis module against the data store.

In some situations at the custom analysis interface service may also augment the interactive graphic illustration with metadata or additional text that is displayed within the interactive graphic illustration or in proximity to the interactive graphic illustration. This metadata may define the properties of the interactive graphic illustration and other information associated with the interactive graphic illustration as a whole or associated with just portions of the interactive graphic illustration. Some of the properties may be edited by the user to present the results different detail or to present the results in different manners or locations.

According to another embodiment at the custom analysis interface service may as was stated above briefly save an association between the profile name selection or input value with the generated instance of the custom analysis module produced by the processing engine. This permits subsequent use retrieval and reference of the custom analysis module within the generic GUI analysis tool. Again it may be that the profile name and analysis module association is at least initially saved in memory before the analysis module is processed to produce results. The association may or may not be retained after a session with the user ends this depends on whether the user elects to save the association. Again the user may be warned before the association is lost when exiting a session if the association was not saved.

It is now appreciated how the custom analysis interface service permits dynamic interaction with a user via a generic GUI analysis tool to receive selections and inputs that are used to dynamically generate custom analysis modules. These modules may be dynamically executed and results viewed in concert with the tool and the results themselves may be manipulated to expand or decrease information associated with the results. The views and location of the interactive graphic illustration may also be user altered as well.

At the custom analysis presentation service presents a GUI analysis tool to a user from defining custom analysis modules. The manners in which the tool may be initially initiated and presented via the custom analysis presentation service is similar to what was presented above with respect to the method of the .

At the custom analysis presentation service retrieves user selected custom analysis modules at the direction of the user and executes them against a data store. The data store may be defined in the custom analysis module or may be supplied via a prompt if the custom analysis module so directs when executed.

At and as was discussed above with the method of the the custom analysis modules may be associated with specific custom analysis types such as but not limited to behavior trend cross segment analysis pattern detection percentile profiling product affinity analysis etc.

According to an embodiment at the custom analysis presentation service in response to a selected or input profile name that is associated with a desired custom analysis module may automatically populate the GUI analysis tool with parameter values defined or associated with the selected or inputted custom analysis module. That is the user may call up a specific and previously built custom analysis module to be populated into the tool by referencing its identifier or label embodied as the profile name for the custom analysis module.

At the custom analysis presentation service may then permit the user to edit modify or change a number of the parameter values within fields of the tool before the resulting modified version of the custom analysis module is generated and executed against the data store. In this way the user can modify previously developed custom analysis modules.

At the custom analysis presentation service displays an interactive graphic illustration representing results with or in connection with the GUI analysis tool. In some cases at the custom analysis presentation service may permit portions of the interactive graphic illustration to be user selected. The selected portions may be targeted for saving as a segment which can be used in subsequent communications other applications or even other analysis modules. So the user may select a portion of the interactive graphic illustration and metadata associated with the selected portion may be displayed in a pop up or existing window. The user can edit the information if desired to create a custom segment and then perhaps direct the existing information to be associated with a different custom analysis module and use that as a modified search to perform user defined analysis on a subset of the results or even use it in targeted marking communications. At a modified version of the interactive graphic illustration may be dynamically redisplayed in response to new results returned from the modified search analysis etc.

In another embodiment at the custom analysis presentation service may enable portions of the interactive graphic illustration to be user selected to provide options that present the user with fine grained information or more coarse grain information associated with underlying details for the results. In this way results associated with executing a custom analysis module can be interacted with to achieve a user defined degree of detail for user analysis.

The custom analysis system includes a data store and a GUI custom analysis tool . Each of these and their interactions with one another will now be discussed in turn.

The data store may be a directory a database a data warehouse or a collection of these items. The data store includes a variety of logically organized information and an interface that permits the information to be updated deleted created and obtained such as via a query language SQL etc. .

The data store may include schemas for tables and may include existing tables or hierarchies representing previously defined custom segments. The data store also includes custom data related to customer interactions communications and other information related to an enterprise. Any particular field or element of a table may be associated with another element of the same table or another element or group of elements associated with one or more different tables. This permits many to many relationships to be defined against the data included in the data store . These relationships may be predefined or may be dynamically user defined using the generic GUI custom analysis tool .

The generic GUI custom analysis tool includes a variety of fields to receive parameters from a user to define values for those fields. A collection of any set of parameters that a user selects or inputs defines a particular custom analysis module. Each custom analysis module is capable of using many to many user selected relationships defined for schemas schema elements or even segments segment elements existing in the data store . Each custom analysis module may also incorporate one or more user defined measures in at least one of the fields within the generic GUI custom analysis tool as at least one of the user supplied parameters.

Moreover the generic GUI custom analysis tool is adapted to process or cause to process the custom analysis modules against data store . When processed the data store returns results that the generic GUI custom analysis tool uses to dynamically expand a presentation to the user to display or depict an interactive graphic illustration of the results.

In some cases the interactive graphic illustration is adapted to include selectable portions that when selected by a user provides a custom level of detail for information associated with the selectable portions as defined in the interactive graphic illustration.

In more situations the interactive graphic illustration may also be adapted with other options associated with the generic GUI custom analysis tool to permit the user to generate and execute a modified search or even a modified or new custom analysis module against the data store using at least some information associated with the interactive graphic illustration portion selected by the user.

According to an embodiment the generic GUI custom analysis tool may also be adapted to dynamically load fields or values for fields in response to a user selection of a particular pre existing custom analysis module. So a user may use the generic GUI custom analysis tool to define an entirely new instance of a new custom analysis module or to define a modified instance of an existing custom analysis module.

The generic GUI custom analysis tool is also adapted to forward the parameters supplied by the user in the fields of the generic GUI custom analysis tool to a driver or an engine. The engine generates the custom analysis modules which are derived at least in part based on the parameters.

The generic GUI custom analysis tool presents a common interface for a variety of different and user defined analysis types. A user no longer has to attempt to memorize different interfaces or even analysis types. When a user creates a new custom analysis module the user can use the generic GUI custom analysis tool to toggle between analysis types to see the differences and descriptions associated with the different analysis types.

This custom analysis module being created may be used to answer a variety of questions such as whose visit frequency increased during a fall promotion what are the changes in net purchase amounts over each quarter for some defined time period which vacations are preferred by ages 1 17 18 35 36 50 50 etc. and or how does one segment behave differently from another segment. These are only examples as to how a behavior trend analysis type may be used. It is appreciated other questions may be answered via such an analysis type as is presented with the example .

Again a consistent GUI analysis tool is presented in as was in with minor variations reflecting that this particular view of the tool is associated with a cross segment analysis type for the custom analysis module being defined and used within the tool.

Some example questions that may be answered with this analysis type include but are not limited to calculate a propensity to buy determine demographics for frequent shoppers or ATM users migrate customers from non valuable to valuable customers identify key characteristics of intersections between segments analyze relationships between segments and attributes etc.

Again a variety of fields are presented and populated with user selected or supplied inputs and the dynamic interactive graphic illustration or results is shown below the inputs along with metadata associated with the results or interactive graphic illustration.

A similar presentation of the GUI analysis tool is presented with the as was with . Here a pattern detection analysis type is being used which may alter some types of fields being presented. The pattern detection analysis type may be used to answer a variety of questions such as but not limited to which product purchases might be indicators of a future purchase of a different product which services should we offer together to increase revenue what are trends in purchasing activity leading up to and after a particular purchase of people who bought insurance how soon after did they make a claim etc.

Again dynamic results and metadata associated with the results are presented in an interactive graphic illustration for user inspection and user interaction at the bottom of the .

Here a product affinity analysis type is presented and the tool presents fields associated in a same and consistent manner as was presented with the . The custom analysis module produced and executed by the selections and inputs are used to dynamically process against a data store and an interactive graphic illustration reflecting the results are presented at the bottom of the . The product affinity analysis type might be used to answer a variety of questions such as but not limited to which 3 products are most commonly purchased together what combination of products is most often purchased by a segment how much time generally elapses between purchases of 2 services what future items will likely be purchased by a customer who buys a certain produce or service etc.

The GUI custom analysis tool may also include a variety of other features such as a screen for defining and using or testing a user defined measure as is depicted in the measure editor of the . Measures can have types such as attribute measures to calculate values based on attributes schema count measures to count the number of schema elements in a particular segment segment count measures to count the number of segment elements in context sensitive situations tables and fields measures to calculate values based on aggregated data from tables and fields percentile profiling measures to aggregated data which can be used for grouping deciles or applied to deciles etc.

Thus the tools presented herein can also be used to create measures types in a user defined manner and they can be dynamically tested or run to depict results in an interactive graphic illustration or table form along with the measure being defined. It is noted that measures on their own do not have results so the measure editor uses other tools presented herein to present test results associated with processing a particular user defined measure.

It is now understood how analysis types can be created in a more user friendly manner to promote reuse with a streamlined and consistent interface via the tools presented herein and above. Users can also visually see the components of custom analysis modules and results associated with executing the modules on a same screen or display. Moreover the results are interactive to supply more or less information or to be modified and submitted for further analysis. In some cases portions of the results from the interactive graphic illustration can even be selected and saved to the data store as a new user defined customer segment. Additionally custom analysis modules are not dependent on pre existing hierarchies they are defined using any many to many relationship from schemas schema elements segments and segment elements. Further measures can be user defined and viewed in similar manners as the analysis types.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of embodiments should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing description of the embodiments various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Description of the Embodiments with each claim standing on its own as a separate exemplary embodiment.

