---

title: Semiconductor devices with photoresponsive components and metal silicide light blocking structures
abstract: In accordance with the invention, a photonic device comprises a semiconductor substrate including at least one circuit component comprising a metal silicide layer and an overlying layer including at least one photoresponsive component. The metal silicide layer is disposed between the circuit component and the photoresponsive component to prevent entry into the circuit component of light that penetrates the photoresponsive component. The silicide layer advantageously reflects the light back into the photoresponsive element. In addition, the overlying layer can include one or more reflective layers to reduce entry of oblique light into the photoresponsive component. In an advantageous embodiment, the substrate comprises single-crystal silicon including one or more insulated gate field effect transistors (IGFETs), and/or capacitors, and the photoresponsive element comprises germanium and/or germanium alloy epitaxially grown from seeds on the silicon. The metal silicide layer can comprise the gate of the IGFET and/or an electrode of the capacitor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07629661&OS=07629661&RS=07629661
owner: Noble Peak Vision Corp.
number: 07629661
owner_city: Wakefield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060210
---
The United States Government has certain rights in this invention pursuant to NSF Phase II SBIR Award DMI 0450487.

This invention relates generally to semiconductor photonic devices such as photodetectors for visible and infrared light. In particular it concerns semiconductor dual layer photonic devices configured to enhance responsivity while reducing stray light.

Semiconductor photonic devices are highly useful in a variety of applications ranging from monitoring analyzing and imaging light to the generation of energy from solar radiation. Typically such devices comprise semiconductor photoresponsive components such as photodiodes photoransistors or photoresistors integrated with semiconductor processing circuitry. Such devices can be used as photodetectors and solar cells.

Semiconductor photodetectors are widely used for the detection of light both visible and infrared. They exploit the internal photoelectric effect where electron hole pairs are generated in a semiconductor by photon absorption and contribute to electrical conduction inside the device leading to a corresponding current at the contacts of the detector. Such detectors are fabricated singly for monitoring in linear arrays for spectroscopy and in two dimensional 2 D arrays for imaging.

One approach to the fabrication of photonic devices is to integrate photoresponsive components such as photodiodes with components for processing circuitry such as transistors and capacitors. Most commonly the photoresponsive components and the processing components are formed in the same plane. In some variations the processing components are formed in a semiconductor substrate and photoresponsive components are formed in a layer overlying the substrate. In such devices the photoresponsive components will have a finite thickness limited by several factors including the time and conditions needed to deposit or grow the photoresponsive components the height of metal contacts to the substrate and the desired planarity of the overall integrated device. As a consequence the photoresponsive components can absorb only a portion of the light falling on them and some of the light can be transmitted through them without being absorbed. For light near the cutoff wavelength photodetector absorption can be quite weak. For instance 20 might be reflected 10 might be absorbed and 70 might be transmitted through the detector.

Light transmitted through the photoresponsive component can penetrate into the substrate where it becomes stray light that can be absorbed directly or after reflection in the semiconductor circuitry causing unexpected and undesired current to flow. Also in a photodetector array light that enters one photoresponsive component at an oblique angle may pass through it to another component in the array. Such stray light causes undesired crosstalk in an analyzer or blurring in an imager. Thus light that is not absorbed by the photoresponsive component can create three problems it can degrade responsivity of the photoresponsive component it can cause unwanted current to flow in the circuitry and it can cause crosstalk. Accordingly there is a need for photonic devices that are configured to enhance responsivity while reducing stray light.

In accordance with the invention a photonic device comprises a semiconductor substrate including at least one circuit component comprising a metal silicide layer and an overlying layer including at least one photoresponsive component. The metal silicide layer is disposed between the circuit component and the photoresponsive component to prevent entry into the circuit component of light that penetrates the photoresponsive component. The silicide layer advantageously reflects the light back into the photoresponsive element. In addition the overlying layer can include one or more reflective layers to reduce entry of oblique light into the photoresponsive component. In an advantageous embodiment the substrate comprises single crystal silicon including one or more insulated gate field effect transistors IGFETs and or capacitors and the photoresponsive element comprises germanium and or germanium alloy epitaxially grown from seeds on the silicon. The metal silicide layer can comprise the gate of the IGFET and or an electrode of the capacitor.

It is to be understood that these drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the invention and are not to scale.

Referring to the drawings schematically illustrate a photonic device comprising a semiconductor substrate and an overlying layer such as insulating layer including at least one semiconductor photoresponsive component . The substrate includes at least one circuit component such as an insulated gate field effect transistor including a source and a drain not shown underlying an insulated gate .

The photoresponsive component advantageously overlies transistor insulated gate and the gate advantageously includes a layer to prevent light that passes through the component from entering the transistor region underlying the gate . Advantageously the layer also reflects the light back into the photoresponsive component .

In a preferred embodiment the substrate comprises single crystal silicon the gate comprises polysilicon the gate insulator comprises silicon oxide and the layer comprises metal silicide. The insulator layer can comprise silicon oxide. The photoresponsive component preferably comprises single crystal germanium. The germanium can be grown from a seed stem that is epitaxially grown from the silicon substrate . Alternatively the photoresponsive component can comprise polycrystalline germanium single crystal silicon polycrystalline silicon or alloys of silicon and germanium in either single crystal or polycrystalline form. This includes all Si Ge alloys between pure Si and Ge.

As an exemplary process for fabricating the preferred device a silicon substrate can be processed in the usual way to create transistors and other desired circuitry. As part of the processing polysilicon gates are created. These gates have a metal silicide layer formed on the upper surface. The polysilicon layer which can be used as the gate of a transistor can also be used as one plate of a capacitor whose other plate is the substrate below the polysilicon or the polysilicon plate may be grounded.

After one or more transistors are created they can be covered with a transparent dielectric layer. The photoresponsive component made of crystalline or polycrystalline semiconductor material can be formed on or in the dielectric. Dielectric layer can then be deposited over the silicon substrate and the transistor gate and be planarized.

In a preferred embodiment the photoresponsive components comprise germanium islands formed by epitaxy lateral overgrowth ELO from seed stems using the substrate silicon as a template. The ELO technique is used to form a high quality germanium seed stem embedded in the insulator on top of the silicon substrate . As an example insulator can be formed as an oxide layer overlying a single crystal silicon substrate . Seed windows can be lithographically defined in the oxide and opened by etching down to the substrate. The exposed silicon surface can be cleaned for germanium growth. Then germanium can be grown selectively on the exposed silicon by selective CVD growth. The growth should be continued until the germanium overgrows the seed stem and fills the region of the island . The seed stems and islands can be shaped and dimensioned so that defects originating at the Ge Si interface are terminated at the walls of stem before reaching the germanium island . This provides a region of germanium over the oxide mask that is essentially defect free. Further details concerning this technique are set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0121507 to Bude et al. herein incorporated by reference. Alternatively the photoresponsive component might comprise epitaxially grown silicon polysilicon or polygermanium material deposited and patterned using standard semiconductor processing techniques. The photoresponsive component can be processed in accordance with well known techniques to form a photodiode phototransistor or photosensitive resistor.

The gate underneath the photodetector is preferably sized and dimensioned to completely overlap the bottom of the photoresponsive component . If a seed is used the gate can be shaped around the stem e.g. donut shaped to allow the seed stem to penetrate through it.

In operation light is incident from above. If light is not absorbed in the photoresponsive component and is transmitted through it the metal silicide will prevent the light from penetrating into the transistor gate and advantageously will reflect it back through the photoresponsive component where it will have a chance to be absorbed on the second pass. Thus for low levels of absorption the probability of absorption will be approximately doubled. For high levels of absorption virtually all the light incident on the component will be absorbed. Light that is not absorbed does not reach the substrate.

The silicide coated gate is sandwiched between the semiconductor substrate in which the transistor is formed and the photoresponsive component is formed in a higher level. By blocking light which passes through the component it prevents transmitted light from reaching the substrate and inducing unwanted currents in the circuits thus acting as a light shield. It can also reflect light back into the photoresponsive component.

It can now be seen that in one broad aspect the invention is a photonic device comprising a semiconductor substrate including at least one circuit component. Overlying the substrate is a layer comprising at least one photoresponsive component that overlaps the circuit component. The circuit component comprises a metal silicide layer positioned to block from the circuit component light passing through the photoresponsive component. Advantageously the metal silicide reflects light back into the photoresponsive component. The semiconductor substrate is advantageously a single crystal semiconductor preferably silicon. The circuit component is advantageously an IGFET or a capacitor. The layer overlying the substrate is advantageously an insulating layer such as silicon oxide and the photoresponsive component advantageously comprises a semiconductor such as germanium. The metal silicide can be part of the gate of the IGFET and or an electrode of the capacitor.

The photoresponsive component is preferably epitaxial with the semiconductor substrate. The component can comprise a stem region of a first lateral area and thickness epitaxially grown from the substrate and a larger lateral area island region epitaxially grown from the stem region. The area and vertical thickness of the stem region can be chosen to grow an island region substantially free of dislocation defects arising from the substrate interface.

In an advantageous embodiment the metal silicide is peripherally larger than the photoresponsive component covers the underlying portions of the circuit component to block stray light from the underlying portions.

Such photodetectors can be utilized individually as for light monitoring or a plurality of such photodetectors can be disposed in a one dimensional linear array as for spectroscopy or in a two dimensional array as for imaging.

Reflective layers such as metal can be disposed and patterned on the layer overlying the substrate. The reflective layers in combination with the metal silicide can be configured to substantially preclude light from the circuit components in the substrate. Where the photoresponsive component includes a stem a region of reflective layer can be vertically aligned with the stem region.

It is to be understood that the above described embodiments are illustrative of only a few of the many possible embodiments which can represent applications of the invention. Numerous and varied other arrangements can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

