---

title: Method of noise reduction based on dynamic aspects of speech
abstract: A system and method are provided that reduce noise in pattern recognition signals. To do this, embodiments of the present invention utilize a prior model of dynamic aspects of clean speech together with one or both of a prior model of static aspects of clean speech, and an acoustic model that indicates the relationship between clean speech, noisy speech and noise. In one embodiment, components of a noise-reduced feature vector are produced by forming a weighted sum of predicted values from the prior model of dynamic aspects of clean speech, the prior model of static aspects of clean speech and the acoustic-environmental model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07617098&OS=07617098&RS=07617098
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07617098
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060512
---
The present application is a divisional of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. 10 152 143 filed on May 20 2002 and entitled METHOD OF NOISE REDUCTION BASED ON DYNAMIC ASPECTS OF SPEECH.

The present invention relates to noise reduction. In particular the present invention relates to removing noise from signals used in pattern recognition.

A pattern recognition system such as a speech recognition system takes an input signal and attempts to decode the signal to find a pattern represented by the signal. For example in a speech recognition system a speech signal often referred to as a test signal is received by the recognition system and is decoded to identify a string of words represented by the speech signal.

To decode the incoming test signal most recognition systems utilize one or more models that describe the likelihood that a portion of the test signal represents a particular pattern. Examples of such models include Neural Nets Dynamic Time Warping segment models and Hidden Markov Models.

Before a model can be used to decode an incoming signal it must be trained. This is typically done by measuring input training signals generated from a known training pattern. For example in speech recognition a collection of speech signals is generated by speakers reading from a known text. These speech signals are then used to train the models.

In order for the models to work optimally the signals used to train the model should be similar to the eventual test signals that are decoded. In particular the training signals should have the same amount and type of noise as the test signals that are decoded.

Typically the training signal is collected under clean conditions and is considered to be relatively noise free. To achieve this same low level of noise in the test signal many prior art systems apply noise reduction techniques to the testing data.

In one technique for removing noise the prior art identifies a set of correction vectors from a stereo signal formed of two channel signals each channel containing the same pattern signal. One of the channel signals is clean and the other includes additive noise. Using feature vectors that represent frames of these channel signals a collection of noise correction vectors are determined by subtracting feature vectors of the noisy channel signal from feature vectors of the clean channel signal. When a feature vector of a noisy pattern signal either a training signal or a test signal is later received a suitable correction vector is added to the feature vector to produce a noise reduced feature vector.

In other systems noise reduced feature vectors are estimated using models of static aspects of noise models of the static aspects of clean speech and an observation or acoustic model that predicts the value of a clean speech vector given a noisy speech vector and a noise vector. Although such systems are effective they are not ideal because the models only represent static aspects of noise and clean speech. They do not represent the dynamic relationships found between neighboring frames of noise and neighboring frames of clean speech. As a result the sequences of noise reduced feature vectors produced by these systems tend to include a large number of discontinuities between neighboring feature vectors. In other words the changes between neighboring noise reduced feature vectors are not as smooth as in normal speech.

In light of this a noise reduction technique is needed that is more effective at removing noise from pattern signals.

A system and method are provided that reduce noise in pattern recognition signals. To do this embodiments of the present invention utilize a prior model of dynamic aspects of clean speech together with one or both of a prior model of static aspects of clean speech and an acoustic model that indicates the relationship between clean speech noisy speech and noise. In one embodiment components of a noise reduced feature vector are produced by forming a weighted sum of predicted values from the prior model of dynamic aspects of clean speech the prior model of static aspects of clean speech and the acoustic model.

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in FIG. provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Memory is implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is preferably allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is preferably used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . During operation operating system is preferably executed by processor from memory . Operating system in one preferred embodiment is a WINDOWS CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system is preferably designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device within the scope of the present invention.

Under one aspect of the present invention a system and method are provided that reduce noise in pattern recognition signals. To do this embodiments of the present invention utilize a prior model of dynamic aspects of clean speech together with one or both of a prior model of static aspects of clean speech and an acoustic distortion or acoustic environmental model that describes the relationship between clean speech noisy speech and noise.

In the discussion below the method is performed in the cepstral domain. In particular each frame of clean speech noisy speech and noise is represented by a cepstral feature vector that is formed by taking the log of the frequency domain representation of the signal within the frame. Thus in the discussion below the method attempts to identify a noise reduced feature vector from a noisy speech feature vector.

In particular the minimum mean square estimate of the noise reduced vector is determined using the conditional expectation EQ. 1 where circumflex over x is the estimate for the noise reduced feature vector of the current frame circumflex over x is the estimate for the noise reduced feature vector determined for a previous frame yis a noisy speech feature vector for the current frame and xis a clean speech feature vector for the current frame.

Under one embodiment of the present invention a mixture model is used to describe the conditional probability p x x . In terms of an equation 

Under one embodiment noisy speech is considered to be the result of noise being added to clean speech. In the time domain this addition is linear. However in the cepstral feature domain this addition becomes non linear resulting in a feature vector relationship of EQ. 4 where log 1 EQ. 5 and r is a residual.

To make the expression of Equation 4 easier to use the non linearity is linearized using a truncated Taylor series approximation. In particular a zero th order Taylor series expansion on g n x at x xis used to form the approximation EQ. 6 where g x is the zero th order Taylor series expansion at expansion point x and is an estimate of the noise in the current frame. In most embodiments the expansion point x is selected as the estimate of the clean speech signal from the preceding frame circumflex over x and is determined using a recursive technique such as the one disclosed in a pending U.S. patent application entitled METHOD OF ITERATIVE NOISE ESTIMATION IN A RECURSIVE FRAMEWORK filed on Apr. 5 2002 and having Ser. No. 10 116 792 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 944 590 issued Sep. 13 2005. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the recursive technique for noise estimation is one example of a number of different noise estimation techniques that may be utilized with the present invention.

Based on the relationship shown in Equation 6 the conditional probability p y x of Equation 2 becomes an acoustic environment probability p y x . Using this acoustic environment probability and Equation 3 above Equation 2 can be re written as 

To compute the integral of Equation 7 the conditional prior p x m circumflex over x is first evaluated. To make this evaluation easier it is recognized that p x m circumflex over x p x x m EQ. 8 where EQ. 9

Thus in Equation 8 xrepresents the static aspects of clean speech and xrepresents the dynamic aspects of clean speech.

To further simplify the evaluation of the conditional prior it is assumed that the static aspects of clean speech are uncorrelated to the dynamic aspects of clean speech. As a result EQ. 10

Under one embodiment the prior probability for the static aspects of clean speech and the prior probability for the dynamic aspects of clean speech are each modeled as Gaussian distributions such that EQ. 11 where and are the mean and variance of the prior model for the static aspects of clean speech and and are the mean and variance of the prior model for the dynamic aspects of clean speech.

Fitting the exponent in the product of the above two Gaussian distributions into the standard quadratic form in x and using Equation 8 above produces 

In many embodiments the acoustic environment probability p y x is also modeled as a Gaussian distribution producing an acoustic model of the form EQ. 15 where is a fixed diagonal covariance matrix that is an approximation to the covariance matrix for the residual r.

The Gaussian distribution in Equation 18 can be shown to be the likelihood of observation ygiven the m th component in the clean speech model under the zero th order approximation made in Equation 15. That is p y m N y EQ. 22

Each summand in Equation 24 is a mixture component contribution to the final reduced noise vector. Each summand is formed by multiplying the weighted sum of three terms by the relative probability of the noisy feature vector y occurring given the mixture component. The first term is the prediction of the reduced noise vector taken from the mean of the static aspects of the prior clean speech model . The second term is the prediction for the reduced noise vector based on the estimate of the reduced noise vector for the preceding frame and the mean of the dynamic aspects of the prior clean speech model x . The last term y g x is the prediction for the noise reduced clean speech vector based on the acoustic model in absence of any prior information.

Thus the estimator of Equation 24 utilizes a prior model of static aspects of clean speech a prior model of dynamic aspects of clean speech and an acoustic distortion model. As a result the sequence of noise reduced vectors produced using the estimator of Equation 24 contain fewer discontinuities and appear more natural.

In addition the weighting values applied to each of the terms in each summand are such that as the variance of one of the terms increases its relative weighting decreases. Thus as a term becomes more accurate in its description of the noise reduced value its weighting increases relative to the weighting of the other terms.

For example the weighting value applied to the value predicted by the prior model for static aspects of clean speech is a function of the variance of the prior model for dynamic aspects of clean speech. As a result when the variance of the model for the dynamic aspects of cleans speech increases relative to the variance of the model for the static aspects of clean speech the relative weighting of the value predicted by the prior model for static aspects increases.

A similar effect occurs for the weighting of the value predicted by the prior model for the dynamic aspects of clean speech since this weighting value is a function of the variance of the prior model for the static aspects of clean speech.

Note that although the estimator of Equation 24 utilizes three terms the present invention may also be practiced utilizing only the first two terms the prior models for the static and dynamic aspects of clean speech or by using only the last two terms the prior model for the dynamic aspects of speech and the acoustic model.

Before the estimator of Equation 25 can be used the parameters for the various models must be trained. Under one embodiment an EM algorithm is used to train the mean and covariance parameters and in the cepstral domain. During this training process the mixture component weights c are also trained. Techniques for performing such training are well known in the art. The fixed covariance matrix is estimated by pooling the training data with all available signal to noise ratios.

A method and system for using the present invention in speech recognition is shown in the flow diagram of and the block diagram of . The method begins in step of where a noisy speech signal is converted into a sequence of feature vectors. To do this a microphone of converts audio waves from a speaker and one or more additive noise sources into electrical signals. The electrical signals are then sampled by an analog to digital converter to generate a sequence of digital values which are grouped into frames of values by a frame constructor . In one embodiment A to D converter samples the analog signal at 16 kHz and 16 bits per sample thereby creating 32 kilobytes of speech data per second and frame constructor creates a new frame every 10 milliseconds that includes 25 milliseconds worth of data.

Each frame of data provided by frame constructor is converted into a feature vector by a feature extractor . Methods for identifying such feature vectors are well known in the art and include 13 dimensional Mel Frequency Cepstrum Coefficients MFCC extraction.

In step of the feature vectors for the noisy speech signal are provided to a noise estimation module in . Noise estimation module estimates the noise in the current frame and provides a feature vector representing the noise estimate together with the noisy speech signal to a noise reduction module .

In step of noise reduction module uses Equation above and the model parameters of Equation which are stored in noise reduction parameter storage to produce a sequence of noise reduced feature vectors from the sequence of noisy feature vectors. In particular noise reduction module uses the distribution parameters for the prior model of the dynamic aspects of clean speech together with the distribution parameters of the prior model of the static aspects of clean speech and or an acoustic model as described above.

The output of noise reduction module is a series of noise reduced feature vectors. If the input signal is a training signal this series of noise reduced feature vectors is provided to a trainer which uses the noise reduced feature vectors and a training text to train an acoustic model . Techniques for training such models are known in the art and a description of them is not required for an understanding of the present invention.

If the input signal is a test signal the noise reduced feature vectors are provided to a decoder which identifies a most likely sequence of words based on the stream of feature vectors a lexicon a language model and the acoustic model . The particular method used for decoding is not important to the present invention and any of several known methods for decoding may be used.

The most probable sequence of hypothesis words is provided to a confidence measure module . Confidence measure module identifies which words are most likely to have been improperly identified by the speech recognizer based in part on a secondary acoustic model not shown . Confidence measure module then provides the sequence of hypothesis words to an output module along with identifiers indicating which words may have been improperly identified. Those skilled in the art will recognize that confidence measure module is not necessary for the practice of the present invention.

Although depicts a speech recognition system the present invention may be used in any pattern recognition system and is not limited to speech.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

