---

title: Method and apparatus for handling control PDUS during re-establishing receiving sides in a wireless communications system
abstract: A wireless communications system has a communications device, which has an RLC entity having a transmitting side and a receiving side. When re-establishing the receiving side, to handle control PDUs, only the receiving side in the RLC entity of the communications device is re-established, a first control PDU corresponding to the receiving side is discarded, and a second control PDU corresponding to the transmitting side is retained and not discarded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08054777&OS=08054777&RS=08054777
owner: Innovative Sonic Limited
number: 08054777
owner_city: Port Louis
owner_country: MU
publication_date: 20060921
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 596 402 filed on Sep. 21 2005 and entitled Improved Single Sided Re establishment Method and Apparatus in a wireless communications system the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to methods and related communications devices utilized in re establishing a receiving side in a wireless communications system and more particularly to a method and related apparatus for handling control PDUs when only the receiving side of an RLC entity is re established.

The third generation 3G mobile communications system has adopted a Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA wireless air interface access method for a cellular network. WCDMA can provide high frequency spectrum utilization universal coverage and high quality high speed multimedia data transmission. The WCDMA method also meets all kinds of QoS requirements simultaneously providing diverse flexible two way transmission services and better communication quality to reduce transmission interruption rates.

Taking a signal communications protocol standard set forth by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP as an example targeting the Access Stratum AS the 3G mobile communications system defines various protocol stacks such as Radio Resource Control RRC Radio Link Control RLC Media Access Control MAC Packet Data Convergence Protocol PDCP and Broadcast Multicast Control BMC . In addition the 3G mobile communications system also provides different levels of transmission quality and can operate in different corresponding modes according to different transmission quality requirements such as Transparent Mode TM Unacknowledged Mode UM and Acknowledged Mode AM . TM is appropriate for use in services with high requirements for real time transmission UM is appropriate for use in services with requirements for real time transmission and packet sequencing and AM is appropriate for use in services with low requirements for real time transmission but high requirements for data accuracy.

In AM the RLC layer combines a transmitting side and a receiving side. The transmitting side and the receiving side each process transmission and reception through the RLC layer and both sides can share system resources. In some circumstances the RLC layer must be reestablished e.g. when changing the size of a protocol data unit. The prior art reestablishes the RLC layer by reestablishing the transmitting side or the receiving side.

Directed at operations corresponding to reestablishing the RLC layer a communications protocol specification established by the 3GPP 3GPP TS 25.322 V6.4.0 2005 06 Radio Link Control RLC protocol specification Release 6 and a Change Request R2 052168 Single Sided RLC Re establishment Motorola 3GPP RAN2 48 meeting August 2005 are already described in detail. The details of the communications protocol specification and the Change Request can be summarized as follows When reestablishment of a transmitting side and or a receiving side of an AM RLC entity is initiated by an upper layer the RLC entity should execute the following two operations 

When only the receiving side is being reestablished the prior art discards all of the control PDUs of the receiving side and the transmitting side which may cause an error in operation of the system. For example a Move Receiving Window Super Field MRW SUFI PDU of an SDU discard command has already been transmitted before the receiving side is reestablished but has been lost in the transmission process because the prior art discards all of the control PDUs when only the receiving side is being reestablished the MRW SUFI PDU cannot be retransmitted such that the SDU discard process cannot be accurately executed in the transmitting side. Likewise if the RLC layer reset process has already been initiated in the transmitting side before the receiving side is reestablished but the RESET PDU has been lost in a transmission process because the prior art discards all of the control PDUs when only the receiving side is being reestablished including the RESET PDU the RESET PDU cannot be retransmitted and the reset process cannot be executed smoothly.

According to the present invention a method of handling control PDUs in a wireless communications system having a communications device having an RLC entity having a transmitting side and a receiving side when reestablishing the receiving side comprises only reestablishing the receiving side in the RLC entity of the communications device discarding a first control PDU corresponding to the receiving side and retaining and not discarding a second control PDU corresponding to the transmitting side.

According to the present invention a communications device utilized in a wireless communications system an RLC entity of the communications device having a transmitting side and a receiving side utilized for accurately reestablishing the receiving side the communications device comprises a control circuit for realizing functions of the communications device a central processing unit for executing a program code to operate the control circuit and a memory for storing the program code. The program code comprises only reestablishing the receiving side in the RLC entity of the communications device discarding a first control PDU corresponding to the receiving side and retaining and not discarding a second control PDU corresponding to the transmitting side.

These and other objectives of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in the various figures and drawings.

In the communications protocol specification 3GPP TS 25.322 V6.4.0 2005 06 Radio Link Control RLC protocol specification Release 6 established by the 3GPP parameters variables timers and control PDUs etc. are defined according to different operating requirements. Based on the above mentioned communications protocol specification the parameters variables and timers can be defined as corresponding to the transmitting side or the receiving side of the RLC layer. Taking status variables for AM as an example status variables corresponding to status of the receiving side comprise VR R VR H and VR MR . Status variables corresponding to status of the transmitting side comprise VT S VT A VT DAT VT MS VT PDU VT SDU VT RST VT MRW and VT WS . Timers corresponding to the receiving side comprise Timer Status Periodic and Timer Status Prohibit. Timers corresponding to the transmitting side comprise Timer Poll Timer Poll Periodic Timer Poll Prohibit Timer Discard Timer RST and Timer MRT. Protocol parameters corresponding to the receiving side comprise Configured Tx Window Size and Configured Rx Window Size. Protocol parameters corresponding to the transmitting side comprise MaxDAT Poll PDU Poll SDU Poll Window MaxRST MaxMRW OSD Window Size and DAR Window Size. Definitions for the above mentioned status variables timers and protocol variables can be found in the communications protocol specification and are not repeated here.

However regarding control PDUs the above mentioned communications protocol specification does not clearly define which control PDUs correspond to the receiving side of the RLC layer and which control PDUs correspond to the transmitting side of the RLC layer. In order to clearly describe the spirit of the present invention the following is a definition of which side each control PDU corresponds to. First the above mentioned communications protocol specification separates the control PDUs into three broad categories 1 STATUS PDUs and Piggybacked STATUS PDUs 2 RESET PDUs and 3 RESET ACK PDUs. The first type of control PDU is primarily comprised of a header for indicating the type of PDU one or a plurality of super fields SUFI and a PAD. By setting information carried by the SUFIs the STATUS PDU and the Piggybacked STATUS PDU can become one of the following types 

1. ACK NACK A receiving status report which the receiver reports back to the transmitter regarding information about received or lost PDUs.

2. Change Window Size Information transmitted to the transmitter by the receiver requesting the transmitter change the size of the transmission window.

3. MRW A request by the transmitter of the receiver to advance a position of the receiving window of the receiver.

4. MRW ACK Report sent to the receiver from the transmitter to acknowledge that the transmitter has already received a STATUS PDU comprising an MRW.

On the other hand the RESET PDU is transmitted to the receiver from the transmitter and used to achieve synchronization by resetting all of the protocol parameters status variables and some of timers. Analogously the RESET ACK PDU is a report sent by the receiver to the transmitter to acknowledge receipt of the RESET PDU.

The ACK NACK Change Window Size and MRW ACK STATUS PDUs and the RESET ACK PDU all correspond to the receiving side of the RLC layer. The MRW STATUS PDU and the RESET PDU correspond to the transmitting side of the RLC layer.

Having clearly defined which control PDUs correspond to which side of the RLC layer we can now move on to describe the embodiments of the present invention.

The present invention relates to a wireless communication system operating in Acknowledged Mode and is utilized to re establish the receiving side accurately so as to improve wireless transmission efficiency and prevent system errors. The wireless communications system is preferably a 3G mobile communications system.

Please refer to which is a functional block diagram of a communications device . For the sake of brevity only shows an input device an output device a control circuit a central processing unit CPU a memory a program code and a transceiver of the communications device . In the communications device the control circuit executes the program code in the memory through the CPU thereby controlling an operation of the communications device . The communications device can receive signals input by a user through the input device such as a keyboard and can output images and sounds through the output device such as a monitor or speakers. The transceiver is used to receive and transmit wireless signals delivering received signals to the control circuit and outputting signals generated by the control circuit wirelessly. From a perspective of a communications protocol framework the transceiver can be seen as a portion of Layer 1 and the control circuit can be utilized to realize functions of Layer 2 and Layer 3.

Please continue to refer to . is a diagram of the program code shown in . The program code comprises an application layer a Layer 3 interface and a Layer 2 interface and is coupled to a Layer 1 interface . When a signal is transmitted the Layer 2 interface forms a plurality of SDUs according to data submitted by the Layer 3 interface and stores the plurality of SDUs in a buffer . Then based on the SDUs stored in the buffer the Layer 2 interface generates a plurality of PDUs and sends the plurality of PDUs to a destination terminal through the Layer 1 interface . In contrast when a wireless signal is received the signal is received through the Layer 1 interface then delivered as PDUs to the Layer 2 interface . The Layer 2 interface restores the PDUs to SDUs and stores the SDUs in the buffer . Last the Layer 2 interface delivers the SDUs stored in the buffer to the Layer 3 interface .

When the communications device operates in AM the Layer 2 interface is a combination of the transmitting side and the receiving side. The transmitting side and the receiving side respectively represent the transmitting and receiving portions of the RLC layer. In some circumstances the program code must re establish the Layer 2 interface . The present invention can re establish the Layer 2 interface through re establishing the receiving side based on receiving side re establishment program code .

Please refer to which is a diagram of a process according to the present invention. The process is utilized to re establish the receiving side of the wireless communications system and can be seen as the receiving side re establishment program code . The process comprises steps of 

Step Retaining and not discarding a control PDU corresponding to the transmitting side of the RLC entity.

According to the process when the RLC entity only re establishes the receiving side the present invention discards the control PDU corresponding to the receiving side and retains and does not discard the control PDU corresponding to the transmitting side. As mentioned previously the control PDUs corresponding to the receiving side comprise the ACK NACK Change Window Size and MRW ACK STATUS PDUs and the RESET ACK PDU of which at least one is discarded in Step . On the other hand the process does not discard the control PDU corresponding to the transmitting side such as the MRW STATUS PDU and the REST PDU of which at least one will be retained and not discarded in Step .

Thus when the RLC entity only re establishes the receiving side the preferred embodiment of the present invention discards the control PDU ACK NACK Change Window Size and MRW ACK STATUS PDU and RESET ACK PDU corresponding to the receiving side and does not discard the MRW PDU corresponding to the transmitting side. Thus after re establishing only the receiving side the system can accurately execute an MRW process. Likewise in another embodiment of the present invention the RESET PDU is not discarded such that after the receiving side has been re established the system can accurately execute a RESET process to improve system efficiency.

Simply speaking through the process when the RLC entity only re establishes the receiving side the control PDU corresponding to the receiving side can be discarded and the control PDU corresponding to the transmitting side can be retained to improve the system efficiency.

Thus the present invention provides the process of only re establishing the receiving side of the RLC layer which not only increases the efficiency of wireless resource use but also makes related processes such as RESET and discard SDU processes execute more accurately.

Those skilled in the art will readily observe that numerous modifications and alterations of the device and method may be made while retaining the teachings of the invention. Accordingly the above disclosure should be construed as limited only by the metes and bounds of the appended claims.

