---

title: Filtering a list of available install items for an install program based on a consumer's install policy
abstract: An install program is enabled for a user to configure at least one location of at least one policy system that is to be accessed via a network to gather at least one install policy, where the install policy specifies a policy for filtering out a selection of install items from among multiple items installable by the install program. In addition, the install program retrieves the install policy from each accessed location when filtering a list of the items installable by the install program to only include a particular selection of install items for the client system as directed by accessed install policies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07748000&OS=07748000&RS=07748000
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07748000
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060727
---
The present invention relates in general to improved autonomic installation in computing systems. In particular the present invention relates to an install program that filters the list of available install items presented to a user and more particularly to filtering by a software provider install program a list of available install items for an application based on a consumer s install policy pointed to by a configurable install policy setting within the software provider install program.

Autonomic computing systems focus on developing distributed networks that are largely self managing self diagnostic and transparent to users. Conventional software installation techniques however are not very autonomic and often require intense user intervention. In particular when software developers distribute applications or patches to applications software developers will often provide an install program to control installation or application of patches and other installable items to a computer system. These install programs however typically either automatically apply the entire application package or patch set or require a user to manually select which portions of an application package to install or patches to apply.

In one attempt at a more automated installation solution a software provider may also provide an install program that applies a policy set by the software provider that requires determining which patches are available for installation to a particular computer system and scanning the particular computer system to compile a list of already installed patches before presenting the user with a filtered choice of patches that are available but not already installed. In addition the software provider may further specify the policy with particular patches assigned as having a higher priority by the software provider. Based on the user s manual selection of patches from the choice of patches the install program downloads and applies the user selected patches. Alternatively a user may select to automatically install the choice of patches.

Many customers particularly customers who run large networks of computers will end up manually selecting only a portion of the available application package or patches in testing the effects of new patches on the stability of a particular computer system or a network of computer systems. Further many customers once it has been determined which patches will not disrupt the stability of a particular computer system or network of computer systems only want to apply the customer determined selection of patches.

Thus while an install program that applies a policy set by the software provider to present the user with a filtered choice of patches may reduce the number of selectable patch options for a larger customer who installs an application across multiple systems and wants to customize the selection of patches applied to the application across those multiple systems the update function does not improve the autonomic installation process. For example a software provider provides three patches A B and C for an application D. Within a customer s network of multiple systems application D is already installed on each system but patches A B and C are not already applied to the installed application. For the customer to apply only patches A and B at each of the multiple systems the customer will have to run the install program on each individual system and within the choice of patches presented of patches A B and C manually select only patches A and B for install. This process of the user running the install program on each system and then manually selecting patches A and B from a list of patches becomes exponentially more time consuming as the number of systems and number of applications each with multiple patches increases.

In addition while an install program that applies a policy set by the software provider presents the user with the software provider s prioritization of the filtered choice of patches a software provider s priorities are not necessarily those of the customer. Thus while the software provider may indicate to the customer those patches within the filtered choice of patches the software provider deems most important a customer is still only provided with an option of manually selecting patches at each system from a choice of patches filtered according to the software provider s priorities.

Therefore to provide a more autonomic installation solution there is an ongoing need for method systems and products for enabling a consumer to specify an install policy and enabling a customer to configure an install program to access and apply that install policy as the install program selects a filtered choice of install items such as patches available for installation at a particular system such that the customer s install policy is reusable across multiple systems at which the install program may run and the customer s install policy directs the filtering of install options to automatically provide the customer with a customer determined selection of install items from among the available install items.

Therefore the present invention provides improved autonomic installation in computing systems. In particular the present invention provides an install program that filters the list of available install items presented to a user and more particularly to filtering by a software provider install program a list of available install items for an application based on a consumer s install policy pointed to by a configurable install policy setting within the software provider install program.

In one embodiment an install program is enabled for a user to configure at least one location of at least one policy system that is to be accessed via a network to gather at least one install policy for a client system where the install policy specifies a policy for filtering out a selection of install items from among multiple items installable by the install program. In addition the install program retrieves the install policy from each accessed location when filtering a list of the items installable by the install program to only include a particular selection of install items for the client system as directed by accessed install policies.

An install policy may include rules for automatically installing a particular install item disallowing installation of a particular install item or setting a priority level for a particular install item.

In addition the install program may access a list of already installed items at the client system filter the list of items installable by the install program to remove the list of already installed items and filter the filtered list of items installable by the install program to include the particular selection of install items for the client system as directed by the accessed install policies.

Further if the install program accesses multiple install policies the install program combines the policies. The install program accesses rules for combining the install policies from within one or more install policies or from other settings by a user the install program or a policy server.

In addition the install program controls the presentation to a user of a selectable list of the particular selection of install items with a selectable option to trigger installation. Responsive to a user selection of a second selection of the particular selection of install items and a user selection of the selectable option to trigger installation the install program is triggered to only install the second selection of the particular selection of install items.

Further the install program directs display within a graphical user interface of an option for a user to select to configure at least one location of at least one install policy. Responsive to the user selection of at least one location within the graphical user interface at least one location of at least one install program is configured within the install program.

In addition the install program may be distributed across multiple systems including a client system and a provider server system via a network. The provider server system accesses the user configuration of at least one location of at least one install policy retrieves the an install policy from each location and filters the list of install items according to the accessed install policies to create the particular selection of install items. The install program installs the particular selection of install items.

A policy server is enabled to control distribution of multiple install policies to install programs associated with multiple client systems. The policy server includes a hierarchical mapping of the client systems wherein each of the client systems is mapped to one of the hierarchical levels within a network environment. The policy server also includes a listing of at least one separate install policy associated with each of the hierarchical levels. The policy server responsive to receiving a request for an install policy by a particular install program associated with a particular client system determines a particular hierarchical level of the particular client system within the hierarchical mapping accesses a selection of at least one install policy associated with the hierarchical level according to the listing and delivers the selection of the at least one install policy to the install program such that a user need only configure the install program to a single policy server location and the policy server determines the applicable install policies for that client system.

In general in the present invention an install program includes at least one install function for applying install items to an application and at least one filter function for filtering the available install items according to an install policy. In addition the install program is enabled for configuration by a user to point to one or more locations of one or more install polices for application by the at least one filter function and the install program is enabled to access the one or more install polices at the pointed to one or more locations. Thus each separate user of the install program may configure the install program to access an install policy at a separate location so that the at least one filter function will filter the available install items based on each separate install policy requested by each separate user. In addition separate users of the install program may configure the install program to access a same install policy at a same location.

As used throughout the term install item may include items installable for an application patches applicable to an application and other installable items for firmware and hardware drivers for example. The term patch may include but is not limited to software designed as an upgrade to an application to fix a bug in an application to provide a new hardware driver for use in a system or by an application or to provide additional security or stability in an application or system. With reference to an install items references are made interchangeably to applying or installing an install item.

In addition as used throughout the terms user or customer are used interchangeably to refer to an entity which configures the location of an install policy for an install program independent of the provider of the install program or the install items. The provider of the install program may be a separate entity from the provider of the install items. In addition the functional components of the install program may be provided by different providers. A provider may include but is not limited to the programmer packager distributor or manufacturer.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In addition in the following description for purposes of explanation numerous systems are described. It is important to note and it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be executed in a variety of systems including a variety of computer systems and electronic devices operating any number of different types of operating systems. In general the present invention is executed in one or more computer systems that perform computing tasks such as manipulating data in storage that is accessible to the computer system.

Referring now to the figures depicts a block diagram illustrating an install program enabled for customer configuration of selected install policies and enabled to access and apply the customer selected install policies in designated a filtered install selection list. In the example an install program includes multiple functional components and multiple data components. It is important to note that each of these functional and data components may reside on a single system a group of systems or may each reside on one or more computing systems within a distributed network and are not limited to functioning on a single system.

In the example install program includes an install controller . Install controller provides a function for installing within a client system or applying to an application a selection of install items where the selection of install items is directed by an install update controller . As will be further described in one embodiment install controller may locally incorporate one or more install items for installation at a client system or install controller may access selected install items from at least one other system over a network.

In addition in the example install program includes a configured install policy location . Configured install policy location includes the location of one or more install polices such as the locations of customer install policy and software provider install policy . An install policy may be located locally in a file system or data storage medium or remotely at a location accessible via a network such as a server. Configured install policy location may include an actual network address location at which an install policy is stored a network address for a server system at which an install policy is stored a file system location or other types of location identifiers that would enable install program to access the identified install policy. As will be further described a customer configures the locations specified in configured install policy location through multiple types of interfaces including but not limited to an API interface a text editor with an editable configuration file and a browser interface. The locations represented by configured install policy location may be written into install controller install update controller a separate data entity or a network accessible data storage system. It is important to note that while install program is described with reference to configured install policy location specified to point to two install polices in other embodiments additional or alternate install polices may be pointed to and configured install policy location need not point to a software provider install policy or may automatically point to a software provider install policy.

Further in the example install program includes an install update controller . Install update controller accesses a list of available install items from install controller or via a network and automatically filters that list of available install items to create a filtered install item selection list. A user may then select for install controller to apply all the install items in the filtered install item selection list or may further adjust the selection of install items in the filtered install selection list by selecting particular install items from the originally filtered list.

In particular in determining those patches to include in the filtered install item selection list install update controller first accesses the locations specified in configured install policy location and then accesses the one or more separate install polices pointed to by the locations within configured install policy location such as both customer install policy specified by the customer and software provider install policy specified by the software provider of the install items. Next install update controller combines the accessed install polices according to rules where the rules may be specified within install policies including rules specified within customer install policy . Thereafter install update controller accesses a list of available install items either from another system or from install controller and filters the list of available install items according to the combined install policies to determine the filtered install item selection list. Install update controller may either automatically install the install items specified in the filtered install item selection list or present the user with the option to further filter those install items included in the filtered install item selection list or to select to automatically install the install items specified in the filtered install item selection list.

An install policy may specify policies for controlling different types of filtering to determine the filtered install item selection list. In one example an install policy may require install update controller to access a list of install items already installed at a particular system or scan the system to determine a list of install items already installed and filter the list of available install items to remove those install items already installed at the particular system. In another example an install policy may require install update controller to apply a criticality or priority level in reordering the selected list of install items from most critical to least or in labeling the listing of each install item in the filtered install selection list. Further an install policy may require install update controller to automatically remove one or more of the available install items from the filtered install selection list. In yet another example an install policy may require install update controller designate one or more of the available install items as required to be installed automatically regardless of any further user inputs and specify for install update controller to distinguishably mark the one or more required install items in the filtered install selection list.

It is important to note that while the present invention is described with reference to an install program provided by a software provider in alternate embodiments entities in addition to or other than the provider of the install items accessible for application by install program may provide install program . The advantage of install program is that while the provider of install program may or may not set a policy for filtering the available install items the provider of install program enables install program to be configurable by a customer or other user to identify particular install polices for use in filtering the available install items and enables install program to access the other install policies from locations identified by the user.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrates a distributed network environment in which an install program enabled for configuration by a customer to access one or more install polices from one or more locations accesses the install polices from the configured locations and generates a filtered install item selection list according to the accessed install polices. Network environment is a distributed network of computer systems in which one embodiment of the invention may be implemented. It will be understood that other embodiments of systems enabled to communicate via a connection may implement the present invention.

In the embodiment network environment includes network which is the medium used to provide communication links between various devices and computer system connected together within network environment . Network may include permanent connections such as wire or fiber optics cables and temporary connections made through telephone connections and wireless transmission connections for example. In addition network may represent one or more types of network elements implemented for enabling communicative connections between systems. For example network may include but is not limited to the Internet a wide area networks WANs a local area networks LANs an Ethernet a token ring and a network service providers. Further network may transport data between systems using one or more types of communication protocols. In one example network implements protocols for transferring data within a packet switching network such as using the transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP however network may include multiple gateways routers and other hardware software and other elements to enable integration of networks using additional or alternate protocols and additional or alternate layers of protocols.

Network enables communicative connection between systems. In the example network enables communicative connection between multiple systems including but not limited to a policy server a policy server a client system a client system a client system and a provider system . It will be understood that each of policy server policy server client system client system client system and provider system may be distributed in geographically the same or disparate locations throughout homogeneous or heterogeneous types of computing systems operating within the same or disparate local networks. It will be understood that network may enable communicative connection between additional or alternate systems and that network environment may include additional servers clients networks and other devices that are not shown.

In one embodiment network environment implements a client server architecture where servers respond to requests from client systems and client systems perform as clients requesting data from servers. In addition despite the labels on different systems illustrated within network environment each of the systems may function as both a client and a server and may be implemented as a computer system through a single or multiple computers systems such as computer system of as will be further described. Further while the present invention is described with emphasis upon systems functioning as either a server or a client client systems such as client system client system or client system may control communication by engaging in peer to peer network communications via network . Further network environment may implement additional or alternate types of architectures.

Within network environment one or more systems may provide access via network to one or more install policies. An install policy may by defined within a document an applet or other data entity that includes policies for use by an install update controller in filtering available patches to determine a filtered install selection list. By placing install policies at systems that are accessible via network to other systems a single install policy is accessible to multiple instances of an install program running at different client systems.

In one example of a policy system a policy server includes a policy access controller for controlling distribution of a customer A policy install and a customer B policy install . Thus in the example policy server stores install policies for multiple customers. In one example policy server may represent a service provider for providing storage space for customers to place install policies. In another example policy server may represent a service provider who detects or receives install policies set by different customers and makes those install policies available to any user.

In another example of a policy system policy server includes a policy access controller for receiving requests for either of a browser application customer install policy and an operating system OS customer install policy and controlling distribution of the requested install policy.

It will be understood that either of policy server and policy server may be implemented as a single server system or through multiple server systems. Further it will be understood that each of policy server and policy server may implement one or more types of security for access and transport of data.

In yet another example of a policy system client system may function as a server and distribute a customer install policy . In one example a customer may create customer install policy and then publish that install policy for access by other users. Alternatively customer install policy may be downloaded to or otherwise stored at client system from another system or data storage medium.

In addition within network environment one or more software providers may provide access via network to install items and all or a portion of an install program. In the example provider system illustrates one example of a system implemented by a provider to provide access to one or more downloadable install items and one or more install programs. It is important to note that network environment may include one or more provider systems and that a provider system need not incorporate all of the functional components and data elements described in the example with reference to provider system . In addition it is important to note that provider system may be implemented through one or more server systems where each server system may be individually accessible and may include only a portion of the components illustrated with reference to provider system .

In one example all or portions of the components of install program are downloadable to a client system. In particular in the embodiment provider system includes a downloadable install program that includes all or portions of the components of install program and is downloadable from provider system to other systems such as client system client system or client system .

In another example the install update controller portion of install program may run at a server system. In particular in the embodiment provider system includes an install update controller that runs at provider system and communicates with install controllers at client system.

In addition in another example the configured install policy location of install program may be configured and stored at provider system . In particular in the embodiment provider system includes a customer install policy location list that includes the locations of install polices configured by customers. In one example provider system may provide an interface through which a customer may configure the locations of one or more install polices and select to store the configured locations in customer install policy location list in association with a customer name or other identifier provider system may distribute the configured locations from customer install location list to install update controllers running on client systems or provider system . In addition provider system prior downloading downloadable install program to a client system may automatically configure the configured install policy location to the location specified in customer install policy location list .

Further in another example provider system may store customer install polices in a customer install polices database . In one example provider system may provide an interface through which a customer may select a customer install policy or upload a customer install policy to provider system for storage in customer install policies database . By accessing customer install policies at provider system a provider may detect patterns of policy selections for use in developing additional patches or refining the provider s install policy.

It is important to note that while is illustrated with reference to a customer downloading all or portion of install program from provider system in additional or alternate embodiments a customer may download install program configure the install policy location for install program and then offer the configured install program for download by other client systems. For example a customer with a large network of systems each requiring separate installations may download downloadable install program configure the install policy location and then place the configured install program at a server system for download by all the customer s systems such that the customer need not reconfigure the configured install policy location at each client system.

For purposes of example different types of distributed configurations of install program are illustrated within and described herein. It will be understood that additional or alternate distribution of install program and the additional functional components and data elements described within reference to may be implemented and that additional configurations of install program may be configured within the system examples illustrated in .

In one example client system only includes install controller and configured install policy location . Thus install program is distributed across client system policy server and provider system . In particular client system includes install controller that controls installation of selected install items and is configured to communicate with install update controller to receive the selection of install items to install. In the example a configured install policy location is configured to point to browser application customer install policy . Thus when installation is triggered either by a user at client system or automatically by install controller install controller establishes a connection with install update controller and passes configured install policy location to install update controller . Install update controller requests browser application customer install policy from policy server and combines browser application customer install policy with a provider install policy not depicted that is automatically applied by install update controller . Install update controller filters an available install items list which lists downloadable install items by the combined install policy to available install item list to generated a filtered install item selection list. In one example the combined install policy may require that install controller pass install update controller a list of patches already installed at client system and therefore install update controller compares the list of install items already installed at client system with available install item list to first filter out those install items already installed at client system . In another example the combined install policy may require that install update controller direct install controller to automatically apply the filtered install items selection list. Install update controller directs install controller which selection of install items to install and install update controller downloads that selection of install items from downloadable install items and installs the selection at client system .

In this example by distributing install controller and install update controller across different systems a provider may provide install update controller as a service to customers such that fewer resources are used at client system in the install process install update controller can be updated and modified by the provider without requiring corresponding updates at each client system and a single install update controller at provider system may interact with install controllers at different client systems and for different applications or providers.

In another example install program is distributed across client system and policy server . In particular client system includes install controller and install update controller . In addition client system includes a configured install policy location that points to a customer A install policy and customer B install policy . Thus when installation is triggered install update controller reads configured install policy location and accesses customer A install policy from policy server . It is important to note that the install update controller may solely include install update controller or may be distributed across install update controller and install update controller . Once install update controller delivers a list of selected install items to install controller install controller controls application of the selected install items and may download the selected install items from downloadable install items of provider system .

In a further example install program is distributed within client system which is communicatively connected to network . In the example client system includes an install controller and an install update controller . In addition client system includes a configured install policy location that points to a customer install policy locally available to client system . Thus when installation is triggered install update controller reads configured install policy location and accesses customer install policy locally within client system .

Client system may receive customer install policy through different media or a user may create customer install policy at client system . In one example a user may receive customer install policy within or as an attachment to an electronic mail or other electronic communication at client system and store a copy of the customer install policy in one of the storage mediums of client system including temporary storage. In another example client system may download customer install policy from a server system or other client system responsive to a user selection to download or responsive to another trigger. In yet another example through an interface of install controller or install update controller a user may create customer install policy and select to publish customer install policy for access by other client systems.

Referring now to a block diagram depicts one embodiment of a computing system in which the present invention may be implemented. The present invention may be executed in a variety of systems including a variety of computing systems such as computer system communicatively connected to a network such as network . For example a policy server a policy server a client system a client system a client system and a provider system may be implemented using a computing system or grouping of computing systems such as computer system . Further computing systems implemented within network may be implemented using a computing system or grouping of computing systems such as computer system .

Computer system includes a bus or other communication device for communicating information within computer system and at least one processing device such as processor coupled to bus for processing information. Bus preferably includes low latency and higher latency paths that are connected by bridges and adapters and controlled within computer system by multiple bus controllers. When implemented as a server computer system may include multiple processors designed to improve network servicing power. Where multiple processors share bus additional controllers not depicted for managing bus access and locks may be implemented.

Processor may be a general purpose processor such as IBM s PowerPC PowerPC is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation processor that during normal operation processes data under the control of an operating system application software middleware not depicted and other code accessible from a dynamic storage device such as random access memory RAM a static storage device such as Read Only Memory ROM a data storage device such as mass storage device or other data storage medium. In one embodiment the operations performed by processor may control accessing at least one install policy according to a customer configured location for the install policy and filtering a list of available install items according to the accessed customer install policy as further described in the flowcharts in and and other operations described herein. Operations performed by processor may be requested by operating system application software middleware or other code or the steps of the present invention might be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components.

The present invention may be provided as a computer program product included on a machine readable medium having stored thereon the machine executable instructions used to program computer system to perform a process according to the present invention. The term machine readable medium as used herein includes any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor or other components of computer system for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Common forms of non volatile media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disc ROM CD ROM or any other optical medium punch cards or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM electrically EPROM EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which computer system can read and which is suitable for storing instructions. In the present embodiment an example of a non volatile medium is mass storage device which as depicted is an internal component of computer system but will be understood to also be provided by an external device. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as RAM . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire or fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency or infrared data communications.

Moreover the present invention may be downloaded or distributed as a computer program product wherein the program instructions may be transferred from a remote computer such as a server to requesting computer system by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via network to a network link e.g. a modem or network connection to a communications interface coupled to bus . Communications interface provides a two way data communications coupling to network link that may be connected for example to a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or directly to an Internet Service Provider ISP . In particular network link may provide wired and or wireless network communications to one or more networks such as network . Further although not depicted communication interface may include software such as device drivers hardware such as adapters and other controllers that enable communication. When implemented as a server computer system may include multiple communication interfaces accessible via multiple peripheral component interconnect PCI bus bridges connected to an input output controller for example. In this manner computer system allows connections to multiple clients via multiple separate ports and each port may also support multiple connections to multiple clients.

Network link and network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system may be forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

In addition computer system may include multiple peripheral components that facilitate input and output. These peripheral components are connected to multiple controllers adapters and expansion slots such as input output I O interface coupled to one of the multiple levels of bus . For example input device may include for example a microphone a video capture device a body scanning system a keyboard a mouse or other input peripheral device communicatively enabled on bus via I O interface controlling inputs. In addition for example a display device communicatively enabled on bus via I O interface for controlling outputs may include for example one or more graphical display devices audio speakers and tactile detectable output interfaces but may also include other output interfaces. In alternate embodiments of the present invention additional or alternate input and output peripheral components may be added.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware depicted in may vary. Furthermore those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the depicted example is not meant to imply architectural limitations with respect to the present invention.

With reference now to a block diagram depicts an illustrative flow diagram of an install program accessing and implementing a customer s install policy for filtering patches available for application at a particular client system. In the example a user selects to trigger an install program for applying patches on a particular client system. In particular in the example responsive to an install request an install update controller is triggered and install update controller accesses a list of locations for install policies from a configured install policy location . In the example the locations for install policies include network accessible addresses www.policy.com installpolicyA and www.policy.com installpolicyB as illustrated at reference numeral . Next patch update controller accesses install polices and matching the network accessible addresses illustrated at reference numeral from a policy server .

In the example each of install policy and install policy includes a selection of patches with priority levels of 1 indicating a higher priority or 2 indicating a lower priority assigned a selection of patches with do not install assigned and a selection of patches with auto install assigned. In addition install policy includes a preference for how to combine multiple policies where install policy specifies that do not install assignments in install policy cannot be overridden by other policies and specifies that the priority assignments in install policy should override priority assignments in install policy and several other policies which are not accessed for the current client system. Further install policy includes a preference to filter out any patches already installed on the particular system. It is important to note that where there is not a precedence rule for choosing between multiple policies install update controller may apply a precedence rule from a provider s default policy.

As depicted install update controller combines install policy and install policy to create a combined install policy . Combined install policy includes the general policy of filtering out all already applied patches from the filtered patch selection list. The precedence preferences of do not install and priority are applied in combining the policies. Patch A is set to do not install because install policy has precedence for a do not install selection. Patch B is set to a priority level of 1 because install policy sets a policy for patch B but install policy does not set a policy for patch B . Patch C is set to a priority level of 1 because install policy is the only patch policy setting a priority level for patch C . Patch D is set to a priority level of 2 because the priority level set in install policy has precedence over the priority level set in install policy . Patch E is set to auto install because only install policy sets a policy for patch E .

Install update controller accesses a list of the patches already installed on the particular client system as illustrated at reference numeral and accesses a list of the available patches for application as illustrated at reference numeral . Although not depicted install update controller may access the list of available patches for application from a provider system or from an install controller and may access the list of already installed patches from the install controller or other software controller enabled to return a list of patches already installed on the client system.

As illustrated install update controller generates a filtered patch selection list . Install update controller first applies the general policy to filter out already install patches and filters out patch B patch G and patch F from the available patch list illustrated at reference numeral . In addition install update controller second applies the individual patch policies to filter out do not install patches to adjust priority levels assigned to patches and to designate patches for automatic installation. In the example install update controller filters out patch A because combined patch policy specifies not to install patch A . In addition in the example install update controller assigns a priority level of 1 to patch C and 2 to patch D . Further in the example install update controller assigns patch E to be automatically installed.

As depicted install update controller may control output of filtered patch selection list in a user interface at which a user may select which patches to install. In particular in the example the user selects to install both patch C and patch D by selecting a box associated with the patch listing however because patch E is to be automatically installed the user may not adjust the selection for patch E . The user may select all the selectable patches at once by selecting select all button or the user may individually select selectable patches. In addition once the user has completed a selection the user may select install button to trigger install update controller to pass the user selections to an install controller.

Referring now to an illustrative block diagram depicts an example of an interface for customer selection of an install policy. In the example within an interface window facilitated by an application programming interface of the install program the customer may select from general rules such as a rule to automatically filter out any patches already installed on the particular system a rule to automatically list patches according to priority level. In addition in the example a customer may select patch level rules such as for each patch selecting whether to automatically install the patch to disallow installation of the patch or to assign a particular priority level to the patch. Further a customer may select install policy combination rules such as selecting to give particular types of policies precedence over other types of policies. For example a customer may select to give a do not install policy for a patch precedence over settings for that patch in any other policies. In another example a customer may select to give an auto install setting for a particular patch precedence over any priority level settings for the particular patch in other install policies. Further in another example a customer may select to give a priority policy precedence over an auto install policy for a patch such that if one policy assigns a priority level to a patch and another assigns a patch to be automatically installed the patch is assigned a priority level but not automatically installed. It is important to note that additional or alternate types of rules and policies may be set.

A customer may also select within interface window to save the selections as an install policy by selecting save policy button . In addition a customer may select within interface window to save the selections as an install policy and publish the selections to the patch provider by selecting button . In addition a customer may be provided with additional options when saving the selections including but not limited to a selection of where to save the selections as an install policy and the format for saving the selections as an install policy.

The application programming interface that facilitates interface window although not depicted also facilitates conversation of the selections into a patch policy document or other data type that is storable and transferable. In one example a patch policy may be stored as an XML document where a standard format is defined for patch policies and a customer s selections within interface window are automatically converted into the XML document meeting the requirements of the standard format. In another example a software provider may provide an interface through which a customer may select patch policy preferences and the software provider converts the patch policy into another format understandable by the software provider s install program.

With reference now to an illustrative block diagram depicts an example of an interface for customer configuration of a configured patch policy location. In the example within an interface window facilitated by an application programming interface of the install program the customer may select one or more locations of patch policies.

In the example the user may select an option to add a location for an install policy. In particular the user may select one or more storage locations as illustrated at reference numeral where each location may include one or more of a local storage location or a network accessible storage location. Further in specifying a network accessible storage location a user may specify the address of a particular service or service provider and a title for a patch policy where the service or service provider accesses the patch policy based on the title.

In addition in selecting storage locations of patch policies the user may select an option to set an application or other association to the location. In particular the user may select one or more applications or other associations as illustrated at reference numeral . In one example an install program may facilitate application of patches for multiple separate applications and a customer may specify a separate patch policy for each application.

Further in selecting storage locations the user may prioritize the locations in order of precedence. In particular instead of or in addition to specifying a rule for combining multiple patch policies a user may prioritize the locations and the patch update controller uses the prioritization when combining patch policies.

Once a user completes selection of location preferences within interface window the application programming interface may convert and store the selected preferences as a configuration file representing the configured patch policy location. In addition it is important to note that a user may open a configuration file into a text editor and manually update the location preferences. Further it is important to note that the options illustrated with reference to interface window may be opened within a browser window of a browser accessing a service for enabling a user to configure install policy locations.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrates a block diagram of a hierarchical install policy system based on a system hierarchy of systems within a network environment. It will be understood by one with skill in the art that systems connected via a network may be described by multiple types of hierarchies and other system level diagrams.

In the example a system diagram illustrates a hierarchy of several systems within a network of systems where each system is represented in the hierarchy to represent a location of the client system. In other embodiments each system may be organized in a hierarchy of systems according to other characteristics.

In particular in the example at a first level systems operate at a corporate level at a second level systems operate at an site level and at a third level one selection of systems operate at a building 100 group and another selection of systems operate at a building 200 group .

In addition in the example a separate selection of policies is associated with each system level within hierarchy . In particular in the example a corporate install policy is associated with first level a site install policy is associated with second level a building 100 install policy is associated with building 100 group and a building 200 install policy is associated with building 200 group .

In the example when a customer selects to install patches at a particular system the position of that system within hierarchy indicates which install policies should be applied for filtering the patches to be installed at that particular system. For example for a system at first level only corporate install policy would apply but for a system at building 100 group corporate install policy site install policy and building 100 install policy would apply.

For the install program to access the required selection of install policies the configured install policy location must point to the required selection of patch policies. The actual locations of the patch policies and the addressing requirements however may vary from network to network. Further for a customer to access the addressing locations of applicable patch policies different types of features may be implemented.

In the example a policy server includes policies and which are each assigned to a network address. Thus a customer configuring an install program to access one or more of polices and may configure the install policy locations to the network addresses of the applicable policies. For example a customer configuring an install program at one of the systems within building 200 group would specify the network address locations of policies and as the configured install policy location for the install program.

In addition as illustrated at reference numeral policy server includes an install policy list that is a list of the network addressing of the patch policies included on policy server . A customer may access install policy list select the applicable patch policies and apply the selected patch policies as the configured patch policy locations of the install program.

In another example policy server also includes a system hierarchy policy controller and a system hierarchy install policy mapping . System hierarchy policy controller receives requests for install policies from install programs with an identifier of the particular system at which the install program is running and system hierarchy policy controller scans system hierarchy install policy mapping to determine the position of the system in the hierarchy and to select which install policies apply to that particular system. System hierarchy policy controller accesses the selection of applicable install policies and returns the selection of install policies to the requesting install program. Thus a customer configuring an install program may configure the install policy location as the network address of policy server and system hierarchy policy controller of policy server determines and returns the selection of patch policies that apply to the particular system.

In other examples although not depicted install policies and may be distributed among multiple policy servers. In addition install policies and may be automatically distributed from policy servers to client systems responsive to customer requests to download install policies to a particular client system independent of requests by install programs.

It is important to note that while the examples depicted in show a system hierarchy example and install policy distribution and addressing example in additional or alternate embodiments other types of system hierarchies may be implemented and other types of install policy distribution and addressing may be implemented. In addition it is important to note that while in the examples depicted in install policies are generally referred to in additional or alternate embodiments at each system level or group different install policies may be set for different applications.

With reference now to a block diagram depicts an install policy verification service for determining whether a particular client system is in compliance with install policies for that particular client system and distributing install policy locations for bringing the particular client system to compliance. In the example a policy compliance server includes an authentication controller . A user at client system through a browser interface or other network interface requests to log in at policy compliance server and authentication controller verifies the requesting user is an authorized user. In addition policy compliance server includes a system hierarchy install policy mapping as also described with reference to . In particular system hierarchy install policy mapping maps one or more of the policies in an install policy database to each hierarchical level.

A compliance controller first determines which install policies from among multiple policies stored within install policy database apply to client system based on system hierarchy install policy mapping . Next compliance controller combines the applicable patch policies into a combined patch policy.

Compliance controller receives a list of the currently installed patches on client system from client system . In one example an install program other application or operating system function running at client system may detect and provide a list of the currently installed patches on client system . In another example compliance controller may run an installation detection program that controls searching of client system or compliance controller may download an installation detection program for running on client system to detect the currently installed applications and patches.

Once compliance controller determines the combined install policies applicable to client system and the currently installed patches on client system compliance controller determines whether client system is in compliance with the install policies that apply to client system and delivers a compliance report indicating the current compliance. If client system is not in compliance with the install policies that apply to client system then compliance controller may deliver the compliance report with the locations of the combined install policies or the locations of the install policies applicable to client system for use in configuring the configured install policy locations for install program at client system .

Referring now to a high level logic flowchart illustrates a process and program for determining a filtered selection of patches according to customer patch policies. In the example the process starts at block and thereafter proceeds to block . Block depicts accessing any configured install policy locations. Next block illustrates accessing the install policy from each configured install policy location. Thereafter block depicts a determination whether multiple install policies are returned. If only a single install policy is returned then the process passes to block . If multiple install policies are returned then the process passes to block . Block illustrates combining install policies according to available precedence rules to generate a combined install policy and the process passes to block .

Block depicts a determination whether the install policy requires filtering out already install items at a system. If the install policy requires filtering out already installed items then the process passes to block . Block illustrates accessing a list of the install items already installed at a particular system. Next block depicts automatically removing any install items already installed from a list of available install items and the process passes to block .

Returning to block if the install policy does not require filtering out already installed items then the process passes to block . Block depicts filtering the list of available install items according to the install policy. Next block illustrates presenting a user with the selectable filtered list of available install items. Thereafter block depicts a determination whether the user selects to install the install items. If the user does not select to install the install items then the process ends. If the user does select to install the install items then the process passes to block . Block illustrates a determination whether the user selected to adjust the selection of install items in the filtered list before selecting to install. If the user does not select to adjust the selection of install items in the filtered list then the process passes to block as will be further described. Otherwise if the user selected to adjust the selection of install items in the filtered list then the process passes to block . Block depicts adjusting the filtered list of available install items to remove any install items not selected by the user and the process passes to block . Block depicts directing the install controller to install the final filtered list of available install items and the process ends.

With reference now to a high level logic flowchart depicts a process and program for selecting install policies according to a request for install policies for a particular client system. As illustrated a policy server may perform the process and program starting at block . Next block depicts a determination whether a policy server receives a request for install policies from an install program running on a particular client system. If a request for install polices from an install program is received then the process passes to block .

Block illustrates determining the position of the particular client system in a hierarchy of systems. Next block depicts accessing all install policies mapped to the system position within the hierarchy of systems. Thereafter block illustrates delivering the accesses install policies to the requesting install program running on the particular client system and the process ends.

Referring now to a high level logic flowchart depicts a process and program for monitoring user compliance to patch policies for a specific client system within a network. In the example a server system performs the process and program as illustrated starting at block and thereafter proceeding to block . Block depicts a determination whether the server system authenticates a user logging in from a particular client system. If the server authenticates a user then the process passes to block . Block depicts determining the position of the particular client system in a hierarchy of systems. Next block depicts accessing all install policies mapped to the system position within the hierarchy of systems. Thereafter block depicts accessing a list of already installed install items on the particular client system. Next block depicts comparing the install policies for the particular client system with the already installed install items and the process passes to block .

Block depicts a determination whether the client system is in compliance because the already installed install items match the install items included in the install policies. If the client system is in compliance then the process passes to block . Block illustrates returning a compliance response to the particular client system indicating full compliance and the process ends. Otherwise at block if the client system is not in compliance then the process passes to block . Block depicts downloading the locations of the accesses install policies to the particular client system and the process ends.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

