---

title: Systems, methods, and software for researching statutory information
abstract: With conventional print and electronic tools, researching statutory material is difficult and time-consuming. So, to facilitate this type of research, the present inventors devised systems, methods, and software that promise to improve the ability of researchers to find, verify, read, and/or interpret statutory information. One exemplary system provides options for users to access statutory information by citation, by table of contents, by index, and/or by popular name; presents specific statutory information in combination with visual indicators, such as red or yellow flags, that indicate the validity or status of the information; and provides requested statutory information in context of links to related information, such as tables of contents, other versions of a statute, case law, scholarly materials, legislative history, cross-referenced statutes, and administrative-law materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08032533&OS=08032533&RS=08032533
owner: Thomson Reuters Global Resources
number: 08032533
owner_city: Baar
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20060117
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 60 644 465 which was filed on Jan. 14 2005 and which is incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of this patent document contains material subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever. The following notice applies to this document Copyright 2005 Thomson Global Resources.

The present invention concerns systems methods and software for online researching of legal statutes and related information.

The American legal system relies heavily on written laws and judicial opinions. Because of this judges and lawyers within our legal system are continually researching an ever changing body of statutes and past opinions case law to make decisions and advise their clients.

To facilitate these searches companies such as West Publishing Company of St. Paul Minn. doing business as Thomson West collect and publish statutes and judicial opinions from across the United States in both print and electronic form. The electronic form of the statutes and case law are electronically searchable via the Internet through the www.Westlaw.com legal research website.

Although services such as Westlaw.com have provided enormous benefits to the legal industry the present inventors have recognized considerable room for improvement particularly in the area of statutes research. This aspect of legal research is notoriously difficult and time consuming. Even with electronic search capabilities many researchers prefer using print materials.

Accordingly the present inventors have recognized a need for tools that facilitate researching statutory information.

To address this and or other needs the present inventors devised systems methods and software that promise to improve the ability of researchers to find verify read and or interpret statutory information. One exemplary system provides a number of graphical user interfaces that facilitate researching statutory information. For finding statutory information one exemplary interface provides options for users to access statutory information by citation by table of contents by index and or by popular name. For verification a results interface presents specific statutory information in combination with visual indicators such as red or yellow flags that indicate the validity or status of the information. For reading ease requested statutory information is presented in one pane of an interface and an adjacent pane provides a list of links to related information such as tables of contents other versions of a statute case law scholarly materials legislative history cross referenced statutes and administrative law materials. The list of links also functions as a checklist for statutory research. And for interpreting the statutory information the list of links includes lists to cases that cite the statute for example a list of citing cases decided within the last 60 days of a given access.

This description which references and incorporates the above identified Figures describes one or more specific embodiments of one or more inventions. These embodiments offered not to limit but only to exemplify and teach the one or more inventions are shown and described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to implement or practice the invention. Thus where appropriate to avoid obscuring the invention the description may omit certain information known to those of skill in the art.

Databases include a set of non statutory legal documents a set of statutory legal documents and other legal documents . Documents in the exemplary embodiment include case law documents from federal state and or local jurisdictions. Statutory legal documents include federal state and or local statutes and administrative rules as well as legislative history. Other legal documents include legal articles encyclopedias and so forth. Databases may also include other content as implied below or in the referenced provisional application. 

Databases which take the exemplary form of one or more electronic magnetic or optical data storage devices include or are otherwise associated with respective indices N N N . Each of the indices includes terms and phrases in association with corresponding document addresses identifiers and other conventional information. Databases are coupled or couplable via a wireless or wireline communications network such as a local wide private or virtual private network to server .

Server which is generally representative of one or more servers for serving data in the form of webpages or other markup language forms with associated applets ActiveX controls remote invocation objects or other related software and data structures to service clients of various thicknesses. More particularly server includes a processor module a memory module a subscriber database a search module a metadata database and a legal research module or software .

Processor module includes one or more local or distributed processors controllers or virtual machines. In the exemplary embodiment processor module assumes any convenient or desirable form.

Memory module which takes the exemplary form of one or more electronic magnetic or optical data storage devices stores subscriber database search engines metadata database and legal research module .

Subscriber database includes subscriber related data for controlling administering and managing pay as you go or subscription based access of databases . In the exemplary embodiment database includes user identifiers access credentials and billing or pricing information.

Search module includes one or more search engines and related user interface components for receiving and processing queries against one or more of databases with use of indices N. In the exemplary embodiment one or more search engines associated with search module provide Boolean tf idf term frequency inverse document frequency and or natural language search capabilities.

Metadata database includes a number of data structures such as data structure to facilitate fulfillment of queries particularly those related to statutes or versions thereof. In the exemplary embodiment data structure includes a document identifier A which is logically associated with a jurisdiction indicator B a year indicator C a session indicator D a document type E an approval date F an effective date G and a class indicator H.

Statutory research software comprises machine readable and or executable instructions for wholly or partly defining web based user interfaces such as a user interface and those shown in subsequent figures over a wireless or wireline communications network on one or more accesses devices such as access device .

Access device is generally representative of one or more access devices. In the exemplary embodiment access device takes the form of a personal computer workstation personal digital assistant mobile telephone or any other device capable of providing an effective user interface with a server or database. Specifically access device includes a processor module a memory a display a keyboard and a graphical pointer or selector also known as a mouse .

Processor module includes one or more processors processing circuits or controllers. In the exemplary embodiment processor module takes any convenient or desirable form. Coupled to processor module is memory .

Memory stores code machine readable or executable instructions for an operating system a browser and a graphical user interface GUI . In the exemplary embodiment operating system takes the form of a version of the Microsoft Windows operating system and browser takes the form of a version of Microsoft Internet Explorer. Operating system and browser not only receive inputs from keyboard and selector but also support rendering of GUI on display . Upon rendering GUI presents data in association with one or more interactive control features or user interface elements . The exemplary embodiment defines one or more portions of interface using applets or other programmatic objects or structures from server . 

More specifically graphical user interface defines or provides one or more display regions such as a query or search region and a search results region . Query region is defined in memory and upon rendering includes one or more interactive control features elements or widgets such as a query input region A a query submission button B. Query input region A also allows a user to input text or provide other input for defining or selecting a query. Query submission button B allows user to initiate submission or communication of the query to server . Search results region is also defined in memory and upon rendering includes one or more interactive control features A D. Control features A C correspond to one or more statutory documents enable a user to selectively access or retrieve one or more corresponding documents relevant to the governing query from databases via server . Each of control features A C includes a respective document identifier or label such as DOCX DOCY or DOCZ identifying respective titles or other aspects of the associated documents. Control feature D which in the exemplary embodiment is representative of one or more control features enables a user to selectively invoke display of other materials related to the one or more of the statutory documents associated with control features A C.

In the exemplary embodiment each of these control features of interface takes the form of a hyperlink or other browser compatible command input. Although shows query region and results region as being simultaneously displayed some embodiments present them at separate times.

At block the exemplary method begins with presentation of a user interface tailored for statutory research. In the exemplary embodiment this entails a user directing a browser in a client access device such as device in to an internet protocol IP address for an online information retrieval system such as system and then logging onto the system using appropriate credentials. Successful login results in a web based search interface such as interface in or one or more portions thereof being output from server stored in memory and displayed by client access device . Execution then continues at block .

Block entails receiving a query from the user. In the exemplary embodiment the user defines the query by interacting with the interface specifically entering terms of the query into a query input region and finally actuating a query submission feature to transmit the query to a server such as server for processing. In some embodiments the user query takes the form of a popular name of a statute that is a statute alias which can be used to assist in identification of the corresponding statute or portion thereof. In others it takes the form of a citation for a statute or a request for a table of contents. shows an exemplary query or search interface that may be substituted for or added to region . Interface includes interface displays and . Interface display includes a query input region a search command input find by citation feature table of contents feature index feature and a popular name feature . User selection of features and invokes display of respective interface displays and . Execution then advances to block as shown in .

Block entails presenting a graphical user interface listing the identified set of documents. In the exemplary embodiment this entails displaying a listing of the identified set of one or more statutes on interface specifically within or as part of search results region along with related statutory content such as one or more indicators regarding the status of the statutes.

In furtherance of the art the inventors have presented among other things various exemplary systems methods and software which facilitate online research of statutory materials.

The embodiments described above are intended only to illustrate and teach one or more ways of practicing or implementing the present invention not to restrict its breadth or scope. The actual scope of the invention which embraces all ways of practicing or implementing the teachings of the invention is defined only by the following claims and their equivalents.

