---

title: Methods of using gelsolin to treat or prevent bacterial sepsis
abstract: Provided are methods of using gelsolin and active fragments thereof to neutralize, treat or prevent the pathogenic effects of lipoteichoic acid (LTA) toxins released from gram-positive bacteria, including massive activation of inflammatory response in a patient and the resulting lethal septic shock. The provided gelsolin binds to and neutralizes LTA from various bacteria, as well as eukaryotic acidic lysolipids adversely associated with bacterial sepsis and inflammation in the patient, with high affinity, thereby decreasing circulating LTA and the eukaryotic markers, and negating the deleterious biological effects of the gram-positive bacterial infection. Consequently, the provided gelsolin replacement therapy offers a method and compositions for the prevention of bacterial sepsis-induced mortality in the patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09408891&OS=09408891&RS=09408891
owner: The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
number: 09408891
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060328
---
This application is filed as a continuation in part application of U.S. Ser. No. 10 574 034 filed May 2 2007 which is a National Phase filing of PCT application PCT US04 037763 filed on Nov. 12 2004 and claiming priority to 60 519 286 filed Nov. 12 2003 each of which is herein incorporated in its entirety.

This invention was supported in part by the National Institutes of Health Grant Nos. grants AR38910 and HL67286. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a method of treating preventing or neutralizing septic shock in mammals.

Septic shock from bacterial endotoxins triggered by release of lipopolysaccharide LPS molecules from the outer wall of gram negative bacteria is a major cause of human death for which there has previously been no effective treatment once the complex inflammatory pathways have been activated. Delivery of LPS from external fluids to the cell membrane and ultimately to the LPS receptors is complex involving a number of external proteins and other factors Erridge et al. 4 837 851 2002 Bosshart et al. 553 135 140 2003 Thomas et al. 307 133 138 2003 Rustici et al. 1993 259 361 365 1993 . A critical factor in LPS toxicity is the aggregation state of this amphipathic molecule e.g. when LPS are packed into lamellar phases toxicity is low but high when present in non lamellar phases Brandenburg et al. 338 2477 2489 2003 . As a result strategies to counteract LPS in serum or cerebrospinal fluid have involved several types of small molecules and proteins including anti LPS antibodies such as transferrin alpha 2 macroglobulin Gc globulin Berger et al. 163 289 299 1987 Berer et al. 20 66 71 1990 and MD 2 Shimazu et al. 189 1777 1782 1999 .

Lipoprotein particles such as LPS binding protein LBP are also ligands for LPS Wright et al. 170 1231 1241 1989 in which case a rise in plasma lipid levels during sepsis may be a protective response since LPS bound to other molecules appears to lose its stimulatory effect on cells Casas et al. 59 544 552 1995 Bannerman et al. 86 3128 3137 2003 and promotes cytokine tolerance in hepatocytes Harris et al. 9 45 50 2003 . Both LBP and CD14 promote partitioning of LPS into lipoprotein complexes Vreugdenhil et al. 170 1399 1405 2003 Wurfel et al. 181 1743 1754 1995 . More importantly low concentrations of LBP have been shown to enhance the LPS induced activation of mononuclear cells whereas increased LBP concentrations inhibit LPS induced cell stimulation Gutsmann et al. 69 6942 6950 2001 . LBP also delivers LPS to its receptors at the cell membrane. This dual effect of the protein on LPS function reinforces the importance of the lipid aggregation state and confirms that toxicity does not result from mass concentration alone. Related to this effect may be the finding that low doses of antimicrobial agents can lead to exacerbation of the toxicity associated with LPS Tauber et al. 156 456 462 1987 Mertsola et al. 8 904 906 1986 .

Lipoteichoic acid LTA is a surface associated adhesion amphiphile found in the cell walls of most gram positive bacteria and acts as a regulator of autolytic wall enzymes muramidases . The toxin is released from the gram positive bacterial cells mainly after bacteriolysis induced by lysozyme cationic peptides from leucocytes or beta lactam antibiotics or leukocytic mediators and plays an important role both in the colonization of bacteria and the consequent release of cytotoxic mediators in colonized organs. LTA binds non specifically to membrane phospholipids in target cells or it binds specifically to CD14 and to Toll like receptors TLRs . When LTA is bound to a target it can interact with circulating antibodies and activate the complement cascade to induce a passive immune kill phenomenon Hummell et al. 77 5 1533 1538 1986 and it triggers numerous events associated with sepsis including the respiratory burst and the release by neutrophils and macrophages of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species acid hydrolases arachidonic acid metabolites highly cationic proteinases bactericidal cationic peptides growth factors stimulators of chemotaxis and phagocytosis and cytotoxic cytokines including tumor necrosis factor TNF interleukin 1 IL 1 inflammatory chemokines such as IL 8 and platelet activating factor PAF . The cytokines then bind to cytokine receptors on target cells and initiate inflammation as well as activating both the complement pathways and the coagulation pathway in a manner similar to endotoxin LPS from gram negative cell walls and in fact may act in synergy to amplify cell damage. Consequently innate immune defenses such as the inflammatory response the complement pathways and the coagulation pathway become harmful to the body when there is an excessive production of cytokines. LTA also inhibits platelet aggregation which may contribute in part to bleeding diathesis which is a characteristic response in gram positive septicemic patients. Thus LTA shares many pathogenetic properties with LPS endotoxins.

In animal studies LTA has been reported to induce arthritis nephritis uveitis encephalomyelitis meningeal inflammation and periodontal lesions and also to trigger cascades resulting in septic shock and multi organ failure. However LTA binding to targets can be inhibited by antibodies phospholipids and specific antibodies to CD14 and TLR. In vitro the release of LTA can be inhibited by non bacteriolytic antibiotics and by polysulphates such as heparin that apparently interfere with the activation of autolysis.

Thus evidence has shown that LTA is a significant virulence factor in infectious and post infectious sequelae caused by gram positive bacteria making the development of effective anti bacteriolytic drugs and multi drug strategies to attenuate LTA induced secretion of pro inflammatory agonists of great importance to combat septic shock and multi organ failure. Moreover gram positive and gram negative infections often co exist producing a synergistic effect of LPS and LTA and results in a clinical septicemia of greater severity than infection by either pathogen alone. Thus LTA sits at the heart of septicemia and blockade of its binding could confer significant clinical activity.

Naturally occurring amphiphilic lysosphingolipid molecules control vital functions of the cell through their interaction with specific receptors to modulate a variety of signaling pathways. Proliferation differentiation and programmed death result from a fine balance of signals among which sphingosine and structurally related molecules play fundamental roles acting as either first or second messengers. Sphingosylphosphocholine SPC is a deacylated derivative of sphingomyelin which is known to accumulate in Niemann Pick disease type A.

Sphingosine 1 phosphate S1P is an important cellular metabolite derived from ceramide that is synthesized de novo or as part of the sphingomyelin cycle in animal cells . In plasma it can reach a concentration of 0.2 to 0.9 M and is found in association with the lipoproteins especially the HDL Goetzl et al 275 19 14573 14578 2000 . It has also been found in insects yeasts and plants.

S1P is a highly active cellular growth factors that is generated enzymatically from cellular membrane precursors and secreted by activated platelets leukocytes epithelial cells and some types of tumors. S1P is stored in relatively high concentrations in human platelets which lack the enzymes responsible for its catabolism and it is released into the blood stream upon activation by physiological stimuli such as growth factors cytokines and receptor agonists and antigens. It may have a critical role in platelet aggregation and thrombosis and could aggravate cardiovascular disease. On the other hand the relatively high concentration of the metabolite in high density lipoproteins HDL may have beneficial implications for atherogenesis. For example reportedly S1P together with other lysolipids such as SPC and lysosulfatide may be responsible for the beneficial clinical effects of HDL by stimulating the production of the potent antiatherogenic signaling molecule nitric oxide by the vascular endothelium. In addition S1P functions intracellularly to regulate calcium mobilization and cell growth in response to a variety of extracellular stimuli. However Yamamura et al. 382 193 197 1996 dismissed the speculation that S1P could physically interact with actin binding proteins demonstrating that S1P was poorly active and yielded only a maximal dissociation of 10 .

Gelsolin is a normal serum protein but unlike other mammalian proteins gelsolin has both cytoplasmic and secreted isoforms derived by alternative slicing of the message from a single gene Sun et al. 274 33179 33182 1999 . Although originally identified as a cellular protein cytoplasmic gelsolin also exists as an abundant secreted isoform of nearly identical structure and is a product of the same gene Kwiatkowski et al. 323 455 458 1986 . It has a six fold sequence repeat structure that is highly conserved among gelsolins of vertebrate species and that is characteristic of a large family of gelsolin related proteins Kwiatkowski 11 103 108 1999 .

Secretory gelsolin now called plasma gelsolin circulates in human and rodent blood at concentrations of 250 50 g L Lind et al. 138 429 434 1988 . Plasma gelsolin has a processed signal sequence but is otherwise identical to the cellular form with the exception of a 23 amino acid stretch at the amino terminus of the molecule designated the plasma extension. Therefore the plasma form of gelsolin is slightly larger 84 kDa than the cellular variant 82 kDa . Recombinant human gelsolin rhGSN Biogen IDEC Inc. Cambridge Mass. is produced in and though it has the same primary structure as native protein under standard conditions of purification it differs from natural human plasma gelsolin by a disulfide bond that is present in the natural protein. The recombinant protein is therefore properly oxidized after purification and its structure and functions are indistinguishable from purified human plasma gelsolin see Wen et al. 35 9700 9709 1996 .

Although secreted by many tissues the major source of human plasma gelsolin is straited muscle Kwiatkowski et al. 263 8239 8243 1988 . This form of gelsolin appears to be distributed throughout extracellular fluids and has a typical residence time in plasma Lind et al. 78 736 742 1986 . It is not modified post translationally by glycosylation or other reactions nor is it an acute phase reactant. In fact little information exists concerning its function or regulation of its production. For example gelsolin did not bind S1P nor did it deliver S1P to rat cardiac myocytes Goetzl et al. supra 2000 . However it is known that levels of gelsolin drop in clinical settings when inflammation or sepsis occurs i.e. tissue injury associated with breakdown of membrane barriers and exposure of actin to the extracellular environment results in reductions in plasma gelsolin levels Lee et al. 326 1335 1341 1992 .

As a result plasma gelsolin depletion precedes and predicts complications of severe injury such as respiratory failure and death in animals including humans Mounzer et al. 160 1673 1681 1999 DiNubile et al. 100 4367 4371 2002 . For example a drop in plasma gelsolin levels to 

In response to acute trauma and or infection abundant but normally intracellular G actin monomeric actin is released into extracellular spaces from damaged or dying cells and tissues and circulates in fluid and blood. Once released G actin has a strong tendency to polymerize to F actin. The persistance of filaments of F actin in the microvasculature of mammals can result in venous obstruction pulmonary microthrombii and or endothelial injury and induces or enhances platelet agglutination in the blood thereby triggering thrombus development Scarborough et al. 100 1314 1319 1981 . Combined these effects alter the characteristics of normal vascular flow in mammals and in turn can result in actin toxicity disorders and contribute to the pathogenesis of organ injury at sites removed from the primary insult Dahl et al. 26 285 289 1998 Lee et al. 1992 supra Mounzer et al. 1999 supra see also U.S. Pat. No. 5 593 964 .

However various actin regulating proteins contribute to the reversible conversion of filaments gel and monomers liquid sol and changes occur depending on extracellular stimuli see U.S. Pat. No. 6 271 353 . Plasma gelsolin and secreted Gc globulin act in a coordinated manner representing an actin scavenger system to depolymerize and remove the actin filaments released from damaged cells. Gelsolin binds to both monomeric and filamentous actin Yin et al. 281 583 586 1979 Yin et al. 259 5271 5276 1984 although following injury gelsolin preferably binds to and severs the actin filaments to promote rapid depolymerization Sun et al 1999 supra whereas Gc globulin binds to the actin monomers to shift the actin monomer polymer equilibrium back toward depolymerizations and prevent repolymerization Goldschmidt Clermont et al. 81 1519 1527 1988 .

This binding requires the presence of micromolar concentrations of calcium Ca which may include added calcium or endogenously available Ca in the patient. Moreover the binding is very tight having a dissociation constant in the nanomolar range. In fact when gelsolin binds actin filaments in the presence of calcium it ruptures or severs the filaments at the binding site by breaking the noncovalent bonds holding actin monomers together within the polymer Janmey et al. 24 3714 3723 1985 . Following the actin severing reaction gelsolin remains tightly bound to one end of the polarized actin filament the end conventionally defined as barbed. This is also the end that rapidly exchanges monomers.

Removing calcium by chelation does not dissociate gelsolin from the barbed ends of the actin filaments. Instead phosphoinositides also referred to as phosphorylated inositol phospholipids or PPIs which are important signal transduction intermediates effect this separation at the plasma membrane. Gelsolin binds with high affinity and selectivity to PPI and to lysophosphatidic acid LPA Janmey et al. 262 12228 12236 1987 Meerschaert et al. 17 5923 32 1998 . PPIs therefore regulate the intracellular actin binding function of gelsolin leading to the hypothesis that a reciprocal relationship between calcium transients and membrane phosphoinositide synthesis and degradation regulates gelsolin and cellular actin remodeling responses Stossel 264 18261 18264 1989 . Gelsolin binding to LPA modulates its receptor mediated biological effects leading to the belief that it may act as a carrier of LPA to some cellular receptors and buffers bioactive inflammatory lipid mediators Goetzl et al. supra 2000 .

Calcium and phosphoinositides also control the actin binding functions of plasma gelsolin in vitro Janmey et al. 5 R81 85 1998 . The PPI regulatory site of gelsolin resides within a 20 residue linear sequence that connects the first and second folded domains of the protein. Biochemical and mutational studies have implicated 10 strategically organized basic and hydrophobic amino acids 160 169 SEQ ID No 1 QRLFQVKGRR in the 684 residue plasma gelsolin molecule that accommodate tight binding to the negatively charged phosphomonoesters and hydrophobic acyl chains of anionic phospholipids Janmey et al. 267 11818 11823 1992 . Synthetic peptides of this sequence have a PPI binding affinity similar to that of intact gelsolin Id .

The methods used to measure the function of gelsolin have exploited gelsolin s calcium dependent actin filament severing function or actin monomer nucleation activities or the actual mass of gelsolin using western blotting or immunochemical usually ELISA assays. The assays used to quantify gelsolin have relative advantages and disadvantages. For example the assays measure only severing activity that is directly measurable by fluorimetry Janmey et al. 70 524 530 1987 and the assays are specific for free gelsolin but actin and lipid binding to gelsolin inhibit this function. Nucleation activity and the structural assays do not differentiate free from complexed gelsolin. However different assays have thus far yielded very similar results for plasma gelsolin levels in control samples and generally consistent degrees of diminution in plasmas from injured animals or humans with the exception that severing activity is lower than expected. However there are also unexplained data from studies showing diminished severing but not total gelsolin activity in serum samples with no evidence of actin suggesting that another ligand may have bound the gelsolin.

While there is no apparent relation between the function or metabolism of LPS and either LPA or PIP2 phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bisphosphate these lipids share two unusual and essential structural characteristics and as acidic lipids they superficially resemble LPS in that all have phosphomonoesters juxtaposed to a hydrophobic interface Erridge et al. 2002 supra . The active site of each molecule contains a phosphomonoester emanating from a carbohydrate base glycerol in the case of LPA and a sugar ring for LPS and PIP2. These moieties which are present in few other lipids present possibilities for electrostatic and hydrogen binding interactions that stabilize both lipid protein and lipid lipid complexes Liepina et al. 71 49 70 2003 . Also none of these lipids forms lamellar phases by itself e.g. Flanagan et al. 73 1440 1447 1997 LPA and PIP2 binding to gelsolin appears to be strongest when the lipid is in micelles or putative lipid clusters within bilayer vesicles Meerschaert et al. 17 5923 5932 1998 Tuominen et al. 263 85 92 1999 Janmey et al. 262 12228 12236 1987 .

Plasma gelsolin depletion contributes to the pathophysiology of pulmonary microvascular dysfunction resulting from a primary burn or bacterially induced inflammation and inflammation induced lung injury Rothenbach et al. 2004 supra . A blatant clinical example of secondary tissue injury associated with and resulting from a depletion of gelsolin is adult respiratory distress multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ARDS MODS Ware et al. 342 1334 2000 . Plasma gelsolin levels have dropped to reportedly on average 30 of normal values in established ARDS cases Yin et al 1979 supra . An unimpressive track record of pharmacologic interventions in established ARDS suggests that once full blown ARDS occurs it may no longer be possible to inhibit the broad spectrum of activated inflammatory mediators that are involved.

Accordingly at the present time there is no agent to clinically neutralize endotoxins or prevent or avert the resulting bacterial sepsis and often death. A need has remained therefore until the present invention to better understand PPI binding proteins and the lipid ligands of these proteins how they affect the function of gelsolin how altering PPI levels in the body works to reorganize the actin cytoskeleton and the role of these lipids and lipid binding proteins such as gelsolin in inflammation particularly with regard to developing methods for treating alleviating or even preventing the onset and pathology of bacterially caused endotoxemia sepsis inflammation induced pulmonary microvascular dysfunction following severe burns or myocardial infarction ARDS or cystic fibrosis.

Gelsolin depletion contributes to the pathophysiology of microvascular dysfunction during inflammation in trauma and burn patients as well as in septic shock resulting from bacterial endotoxins triggered by release of lipopolysaccharide LPS molecules from infecting gram negative bacteria and by lipoteichoic acid LTA from infecting gram positive bacteria. As a result the present invention provides methods to counteract the decreasing plasma gelsolin levels at a sufficiently early time point in inflammation induced injury by the infusion of gelsolin that microvascular dysfunction is averted. In fact in accordance with preferred embodiments of the invention intravenous infusion of synthetic recombinant human gelsolin recombinant replacement therapy completely prevented the irreversible tissue damage and increased microvascular permeability otherwise associated with bacterial endotoxin production and death. Thus the invention provides important new evidence to support the finding that circulating gelsolin has an important protective function against the pathophysiology of systemic inflammation.

It is an object of the present invention is to provide a method for increasing the concentration of gelsolin or functionally equivalent peptide fragment thereof in blood or extracellular fluid of a patient in vitro or in vivo wherein such increased concentration of gelsolin is needed said method comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of gelsolin or functionally equivalent peptide fragment thereof.

It is a further object to provide methods for decreasing the concentration of bacterial LPS or LTA in blood or extracellular fluid of a patient thereby preventing neutralizing or reducing endotoxemia or endotoxin induced septic shock in a patient in vitro or in vivo wherein the patient is subject to or susceptible to bacterial infection said method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of gelsolin or functionally equivalent peptide fragment thereof to decrease the concentration of bacterial LPS or LTA and protect the patient from endotoxemia or endotoxin induced sepsis. Consequently the method further blocks reduces or ameliorates bacterial LPS or LTA induced disruption of mammalian cellular responses or formation of toxic structures in vitro or in vivo. It also blocks reduces or ameliorates the inhibition of fibrinolysis by excess extracellular free actin in blood or extracellular fluid of a patient in vitro or in vivo. In addition it restores or maintains normal aggregation of platelets in a patient wherein the patient is subject to or susceptible to LPS or LTA induced generalized coagulation dysfunction.

It is an additional object that each embodied method be useful in vitro or in the actual gelsolin replacement therapy of a patient.

When such methods are used in vivo it is a further object that the method effectively inhibits ameliorates or prevents secondary tissue injury in the patient resulting from an accumulation of excess bacterial LPS or LTA said method comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of gelsolin or functionally equivalent peptide fragment thereof. Moreover the methods are effective even when the secondary tissue injury in the patient is remote from the site of primary infection or trauma.

It is yet another object to provide method for predicting adverse clinical outcome associated with massive inflammation in a patient susceptible to inflammatory shock or endotoxin induced sepsis said method comprising measuring the circulating gelsolin concentration in the patient wherein a decrease 30 of normal pre trauma or pre infection gelsolin levels predicts such adverse outcome and predicts a need for gelsolin therapy. Also provided are the compositions of gelsolin or active fragment thereof as used in the foregoing methods.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description examples and figures which follow all of which are intended to be for illustrative purposes only and not intended in any way to limit the invention and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art on examination of the following or may be learned by practice of the invention.

The present invention provides methods for effectively using plasma gelsolin or active fragments homologs or analogs thereof to treat neutralize prevent or otherwise control septic shock in a patient resulting from endotoxins triggered by release of lipopolysaccharide LPS molecules from infecting gram negative bacteria. Also the invention provides methods for effectively using plasma gelsolin or active fragments homologs or analogs thereof to treat neutralize prevent or otherwise control septic shock in a patient resulting from endotoxins triggered by release of bacterial lipid lipoteichoic acid LTA from gram positive bacteria. In addition the invention further provides methods for effectively using plasma gelsolin or active fragments homologs or analogs thereof to treat neutralize prevent or otherwise control septic shock in a patient resulting from sepsis relevant eukaryotic signaling lysolipids sphingosine phosphate S1P and sphingosine phosphocholine SPC . As a result methods are provided to counteract or prevent sepsis severe inflammation or other conditions such as inflammation induced pulmonary microvascular dysfunction associated with a marked decrease in plasma gelsolin levels in the patient by modulating LPS LTA S1P and or SPC.

In vitro and in vivo evidence including solid phase binding assays fluorescence absorbance measurements and functional assays of actin depolymerizing effects demonstrate a clear interaction between LPS LTA S1P or SPC and gelsolin and show that gelsolin binds with approximately equal strength individually to LPS and LTA and that it binds more tightly to LPS and LTA respectively than it does to its other known lipid ligands e.g. phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bisphosphate PIP2 and lysophosphatidic acid LPA . LTA LPS and PIP2 all appear to bind to one common site within gelsolin. See e.g. Mintzer et al. . in press 2006 .

The tight and selective binding of gelsolin to LPS LTA S1P and SPC respectively has several implications for the function of plasma gelsolin and the invention therefore offers methods to counteract the toxic effects of these bioactive lipids. Despite a strong clinical correlation between markedly lowered gelsolin levels and susceptibility to inflammatory shock until the present invention there had been no demonstration or explanation of a therapeutic utility of the interaction between human plasma gelsolin and bacterial LPS that inactivates both the actin scavenging function of gelsolin and the cytotoxic effect of LPS. The current findings indicate that LPS and LTA in addition to LPA and actin may be the harmful agent responsible for pathologies following trauma burns or bacterial infection that leads to gelsolin depletion.

LTA shares many of its pathogenetic properties with endotoxins lipopolysaccharide . In animals LTA is known to have induced uveitis encephalomyelitis meningeal inflammation and periodontal lesions. It also triggers cascades resulting in septic shock and multi organ failure Ginsburg Lancet Infect. Dis. 2 3 171 9 2002 . In sepsis gram positive and gram negative bacteria provoke similar inflammatory processes. Lipopolysaccharides represent the principal immuno stimulatory components of gram negative bacteria whereas lipoteichoic acid appears to be the major immuno stimulatory molecule of the gram positive cell wall. LTA is a potent activator of cytokine generation in human neutrophils Hattar et al. Crit. Care Med. 34 835 841 2006 and of the production of TNF alpha and IL 6 in Kupffer cells Gunhild 4 2 181 189 2003 . LTA also causes significant up regulation of the surface expression of ICAM 1 and receptors involved in antigen presentation HLA DR on whole blood monocytes similar to that obtained with LPS Jorgensen et al. 8 515 521 2001 . As with LPS innate immune recognition of LTA requires LBP CD14 and TLR.

The molecular structure of LPS is heterogeneous even from a single bacterium and often is widely variable among different bacteria. Why some forms of LPS are more toxic than others remains unresolved but as demonstrated in the examples that follow not only is the covalent structure of the compound important but the form of the LPS aggregate appears to be an equally relevant determinant of toxicity. The strong binding of gelsolin to LPS and LTA as well as to LPA and PIP2 points to the importance of aggregate packing in both the biochemistry and biologic function of protein lipid interactions. LPS LTA LPA and PIP2 are similar but not identical. However they are in fact sufficiently different that highly specific lock and key binding interactions cannot explain these effects.

One of proposed mechanisms of LPS deactivation in blood is LBP mediated incorporation of LPS molecules into blood lipoproteins Yu et al. 99 315 324 1997 . A previous kinetic study suggests that LPS binding protein LBP a high affinity carrier for LPS is one of the first plasma components to interact with Lipid A Tobias et al. 50 73 76 1985 thereby influencing interactions of LPS with lipoprotein and cellular targets and serving as an acute phase reactant. It is increased during trauma or infection which results in increased plasma opsonization capacity Tobias et al. 164 777 793 1986 Mathison et al. 149 200 206 1992 . Therefore the present findings are significant showing that gelsolin competes with LBP further disrupting the onset of sepsis. Accordingly the present invention provides methods for complexing circulating LPS by LPS binding proteins or lipids thereby preventing the formation of the toxic structures.

Less is known about the mechanisms by which LTA is delivered to its eukaryotic target cells as compared to the literature on LPS. However recent studies show that both LBP and CD14 can bind LTA and deliver it selectively to Toll like receptor 2 TLR 2 in a manner analogous to the trafficking of LPS. For example LTA from and activates immune cells via TLR 2 LBP and CD 14 whereas TLR 4 and MD 2 are not involved Schroder et al. 278 18 15587 15594 2003 . As a further analogy between LTA and LPS it has been reported that plasma lipoproteins bind LTA as well as LPS van Oosten et al. 7 5 381 384 2001 . This similarity strengthens the hypothesis that plasma sequestration and presentation to corresponding cellular receptors is as important for LTA as it is for LPS.

S1P is an important bioactive lipid that can become thrombogenic and cause or aggravate cardiovascular diseases especially under certain pathological conditions. It is likely that regulation of S1P biological activities is important for the therapeutic purposes e.g. to control vascular and inflammatory disorders. Binding of gelsolin with S1P may prevents its interaction with S1P receptors Yatomi 12 575 587 2006 .

When the term gelsolin is used herein it is herein to mean whole or intact gelsolin or a biologically active abbreviated sequence forms of gelsolin and their biologically active analogs including muteins having substituted deleted elongated replaced or otherwise modified sequences which possess LPS LTA S1P or SPC binding bioactivity that is substantially similar to that of native gelsolin as well as biologically active amino acid sequences substantially similar to gelsolin. As used herein biologically active equivalent peptide analogs refers to functionally equivalent peptide fragments including homologs of gelsolin preferably SEQ ID No 1 that contain conservative amino acid substitutions provided that the peptide analogs which contain the conservative substitutions bind to a PPI phosphoinositide regulating the intracellular actin binding function of gelsolin and have transport mediating activity as determined for example in an in vitro screening assay. As used herein conservative amino acid substitution refers to an amino acid substitution which does not alter the relative charge or size characteristics of the peptide in which the amino acid substitution is made. Moreover as used herein the term gelsolin is intended to include naturally occurring or recombinant or synthetically produced isolated gelsolin or functionally equivalent peptide fragments thereof. All are included within the present invention.

Turning to the Figures of the present invention which will be described in greater detail in the Examples that follow in a preferably embodied solid phase binding assay H LPS bound in a saturable manner to surfaces that were coated with the PIP2 binding peptide SEQ ID No 1 QRLFQVKGRR also referred to herein as PBP10 but not to surfaces coated with a truncated peptide QRL which does not bind PIP2. Addition of a substantial 5 fold excess of unlabeled LPS reduced that binding to PBP10 by approximately 50 but it had no effect on the small amount of non specific binding to the control peptide treated surface. See . The finding that a small active peptide fragment of gelsolin such as PBP10 was as effective as whole gelsolin for binding these lipids while for example only the correctly folded protein can bind actin points to a disclosed general binding of LPS through its lipid binding domain. Under certain conditions a functionally equivalent peptide fragment may bind better to LPS than intact gelsolin does perhaps in settings where steric constraints prevent the whole protein from finding the binding site on LPS while allowing the smaller peptide to do so.

Binding of LPS to intact gelsolin was evident by a change in UV absorbance of at least 10 more preferably 20 more preferably 30 with a maximal decrease seen of 35 although it could be greater. Such a decrease in tyrosine and tryptophan fluorescence due to decreased absorbance has been documented as an assay for PIP2 binding to gelsolin Lind et al. 1997 supra . LPA also diminished gelsolin s absorbance but PS had no effect. Moreover binding of PPIs and LPA to gelsolin strongly inhibited gelsolin s actin filament severing function.

The fluorescence of rhodamine B labeled SEQ ID NO 1 QRLFQVKGRR is also changed by LPS as shown in . LPS and PIP2 but not phosphatidylserine PS induced identical concentration dependent fluorescence quenching of PBP10. LPS and PIP2 also caused congruent changes in the fluorescent spectrum of pyrene derived SEQ ID No 1 QRLFQVKGRR in which binding to these lipids but not to PS induces clustering of the peptide with resulting excimer fluorescence of the pyrene group. This was manifest as a large increase in fluorescence emission at 480 nm data not shown .

After an initial decrease in fluorescence at low LPS to peptide ratios the peptide fluorescence increases strongly further suggesting insertion of the peptide bound rhodamine B into a more hydrophobic environment. Lipid A the LPS derivative lacking polysaccharide causes weaker but detectable inhibition whereas anionic lipids like PS have no inhibitory effect data not shown . Thus LPS is a more potent inhibitor than either LPA or P1P2 yet certain structural similarities between PIP2 LPA and LPS suggest that LPS binds gelsolin at the same site as PIP2 and LPA. When tested the same types of assays that have documented binding of PPIs and LPA to gelsolin all show that gelsolin binds LPS at least as strongly and in some contexts with higher affinity than it binds PIP2 and the binding site is in fact localized to apparently to the same region in gelsolin where PIP2 and LPA bind.

The molecular structure of LPS and its complexes with proteins such as gelsolin can be further defined by plotting neutron scattering intensity. For example the neutron scattering intensity of LPS SEQ ID No 1 gelsolin peptide residues 160 169 is shown in . The linearity of the plot suggests that LPS forms a cylindrical structure but that the addition of gelsolin alters the diameter of LPS confirming that neutron scattering data permits structural analysis of the binding capability of LPS.

The consequence of LPS binding on gelsolin s actin severing capability is shown in . When added to purified human gelsolin LPS inhibited 50 of the severing activity of the gelsolin and is a more potent inhibitor of either LPA lysophosphatidic acid which is a potent extracellular agonist or PIP2. Lipid A the LPS derivative lacking polysaccharide has a weaker but significant inhibitory effect and nonspecific anionic lipids like PS have no effect. When added to whole human serum LPS and PIP2 are also able to inhibit gelsolin activity although larger amounts are needed as compared to inhibition of pure gelsolin in aqueous solution. LPA appears to be much less effective in serum than in pure solution possibly because the greater lability of the lysolipid allows its more rapid partitioning into lipoprotein particles or Ca2 mediated aggregates that are incapable of binding gelsolin.

Gelsolin competes with LBP LPS binding protein for LPS. Using a solid phase binding assay nanomolar concentrations of gelsolin were shown to inhibit binding of I LBP to LPS coated wells by 69 6 . However inhibition of LBP LPS binding is not due to direct binding of LBP to gelsolin since I LBP does not bind to gelsolin coated surfaces . Since plasma contains higher levels of gelsolin 150 300 g ml than that which is found in LBP 3 10 g ml Lind et al. 1988 supra Mathison 1992 supra these data showing comparable LPS affinity by gelsolin and by LBP indicate that gelsolin may play a role in LPS buffering or presentation.

One result of gelsolin LPS binding is inhibition of the actin binding activity of gelsolin as well as the actin depolymerizing activity of blood serum. Inhibition by LPS of actin depolymerizing activity in serum was shown to be due to its effect on gelsolin because the actin sequestering activity of Gc globulin or vitamin D binding protein which is the other component of the plasma actin scavenger system was unaffected by LPS at concentrations at least up to 100 M data not shown . A 10 fold molar excess of LPS from serotype 026 B6 ATCC13076 strain or serotype 10 data not shown effectively inhibited 50 of gelsolin s actin filament severing capability. When added to purified human gelsolin LPS inhibits the severing activity of gelsolin at a rate that increases with increasing concentration of LPS present . When added to whole human serum LPS and PIP2 were also able to inhibit gelsolin activity although larger amounts were needed compared to inhibition of pure gelsolin in aqueous solution .

Measurement of the effects on blood serum severing function showed that the inhibitory efficiency varies with the bacterial species from which LPS was released. For example when several different LPS species were tested the inhibitor effect was found to be strain ATCC15380 Sigma 

Therefore it can be further concluded by both chemical and physical evidence that gelsolin binds LPS through its lipid binding domain and that the binding of polyphosphoinositides and LPA to gelsolin strongly inhibits gelsolin s actin filament severing function. Neutron scattering measurements suggest that LPS added to buffers in vitro forms micelles and its interaction with gelsolin and other proteins may be different when it is in other complex forms. LPA appeared to lack its effect in serum as compared to pure solution possibly because the greater lability of the lysolipid allows its more rapid partitioning into lipoprotein particles or Ca mediated aggregates that are incapable of binding gelsolin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention gelsolin prevents LPS induced cellular effects in vitro. LPS effects on cellular functions including cytoskeletal actin remodeling and collagen induced platelet activation by pathways independent of toll like receptors TLR are neutralized by gelsolin and by a peptide based on gelsolin residues 160 169 SEQ ID No 1 which comprises part of gelsolin s phosphoinositide binding site. When added to either cultured human aortic endothelial cells HAEC or primary rat astrocytes LPS at relatively high concentrations rapidly induced disassembly of the actin cytoskeleton see disrupted and diffuse phalloidin staining in . By comparison however abundant actin bundles are seen in the controls . However when the LPS was first incubated with an excess of plasma gelsolin the thus bound LPS had no discernable effect on the actin cytoskeletons of either the endothelial cells or the astrocytes.

TLR dependent NF kB translocation in fibroblasts appears not to be blocked by gelsolin see Example 3 whereas LPS effects on cellular functions including cytoskeletal actin remodeling by pathways independent of toll like receptors TLR are neutralized by gelsolin and by a peptide based on gelsolin SEQ ID No 1. In untreated control astrocytes NF B was located in the cytoplasm K and activation by LPS resulted in its translocation to the nucleoplasm similar to that induced by TNF . However the LPS induced translocation of NF B was blocked by pre incubation with gelsolin . These results show a strong effect of LPS on plasma gelsolin function and more importantly indicate that at least some effects of endotoxin in vivo are mediated or inhibited by plasma gelsolin.

Generalized coagulation dysfunction represents a common complication of LPS induced septic shock syndrome. The effect of LPS on platelet function has reportedly depended on LPS concentration used to affect platelet function. It has be found that LPS at low concentration caused priming of platelets activation Salat et al. 33 1 2 25 32 1999 but LPS at 100 300 g ml inhibits platelets aggregation stimulated by collagen Sheu et al. 103 1 29 38 1998 . However this LPS effect on collagen induced platelet activation by pathways independent of toll like receptors is neutralized by gelsolin. For example when LPS was added alone LPS strongly inhibited the aggregation and secretion of platelets induced by collagen compare triangles to square symbols in . By comparison the addition of gelsolin SEQ ID No 1 to LPS before it was added to the platelets restored in a peptide concentration dependent manner the normal collagen induced activation and aggregation of the platelets. However the gelsolin peptide SEQ ID No 1 alone as opposed to with LPS had no effect on collagen mediated platelet functions.

Therefore shows the protective effect of the gelsolin peptide SEQ ID No 1 QRLFQVKGRR GLS 160 169 on LPS mediated alteration of platelet function. These results show a strong effect of LPS on plasma gelsolin function and indicate that some of the pathogenic effects of endotoxin in vivo may be mediated inhibited or even prevented by plasma gelsolin or an active fragment thereof.

Since humans with sepsis have decreased plasma gelsolin concentrations Suhler et al. 1997 supra the effect of LPS administration on gelsolin levels can be studied in recognized mouse models. Intraperitoneal administration of LPS serotype 10 caused a dose dependent reduction in plasma gelsolin levels after 24 hours. The changes in gelsolin concentrations in response to LPS appear to be specific because plasma albumin levels did not change. The modest reduction in plasma gelsolin level was consistent with the relatively low mortality 35 by 7 days after treatment of mice receiving 40 mg kg of LPS. In contrast mice challenged with LPS from serotype 055 B5 at 25 mg kg decreased their plasma gelsolin values by 50 within 24 hours after challenge and had a 100 mortality rate by 7 days data not shown .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention however the mice are administered human recombinant plasma gelsolin GSN subcutaneously immediately after challenge with LPS and daily thereafter for three additional doses. The mortality rate is then compared with those treated with saline solution alone or with bovine serum albumin BSA . The gelsolin amounts administered by this route restore plasma levels in LPS treated animals to 200 g ml which is slightly greater than the baseline concentrations data not shown . However mice treated with plasma gelsolin have markedly improved survival compared to saline or BSA controls data not shown . At Day 7 the surviving mice all in the GSN group all appear to have complete recovery and exhibit no signs of distress.

Bacterial sepsis can also result from gram positive bacterial infections that do not produce LPS but rather that have LTA as their major outer wall constituent. As shown in LTA binds to gelsolin approximately as strongly as do LPS and PIP2. LTA is a potent inhibitor of gelsolin s actin filament severing activity and binds to the PIP2 binding site within the PBP10 peptide suggesting that LTA LPS and PIP2 all bind to at least one common site within gelsolin.

As seen in gelsolin prevents LTA activation of endothelial cells as measured by neutral adhesion meaning that it prevents LTA mediated HAEC activation. The same active region is involved in gelsolin for both LPS and for LTA. Gelsolin may be used in septic conditions after infection with gram negative and gram positive bacteria regardless of the bacteria causing the infection. Because the physical chemistry of LPS and LTA are similar their inflammatory effects share certain common features. Recent in vitro studies show that they bind at least some of the same plasma protein ligands and they stimulate the same membrane receptors e.g. TLR 2 . As a result based upon the protective effect of gelsolin on LPS in vivo demonstrated in the examples that follow a similar protective effect is encompassed in an alternative embodiment of the present invention by animal studies of gelsolin and LTA.

The acidic lysolipids sphingosine phosphate S1P and sphingosyl phosphocholine SPC also inhibit gelsolin indicating their interaction. Although previous studies had reported that S1P does not bind gelsolin or other related proteins like fragment Meerschaert et al. supra 1998 the potent activity of LPS motivated reinvestigation of S1P for the purposes of the present invention because S1P shares with PPIs LPA and LPS the rare presence of a phosphomonoester at its hydrophilic domain. S1P is also a potent bioactive signal that rises during bacterial sepsis and other inflammatory disorders and that might relate to the protective effect of gelsolin infusion after LPS injection.

As shown in S1P inhibits gelsolin as least as strongly as LPA does when added at concentrations below 1 M but shows an abrupt drop off of activity at higher concentrations. SPC another mediator of cell function has similar effects as S1P but other bioactive lipids such as platelet activating factor PAF do not inhibit gelsolin.

The relatively low activities of S1P and SPC at high concentrations are very likely due to the limited solubility of S1P and SPC in aqueous buffer near neutrality. The structural state of S1P and it optimal conditions for its solubility have not yet been determined Li et al. 130 197 2012 2004 . It may be relevant that the levels of S1P in normal blood plasma obtained from healthy donors are between 0.5 and 1 M and that arise in S1P levels is negatively related to the efficiency of platelet aggregation in such plasma samples Igarashi et al. 57 261 262 1998 Nugent et al. 11 226 232 2000 .

The tight and selective binding of gelsolin to LPS and LTA may have several implications for the function of plasma gelsolin and may suggest methods to counteract the toxic effects of LPS and LTA. The wide distribution of a extracellular gelsolin protein in eukaryotic species including humans and its binding to a variety of endotoxins suggests that it is a component of the innate immune system Beutler et al. 29 supplement S2 S7 2001 . The findings presented in this invention support the concept of a strong clinical correlation between lowered gelsolin levels due to primary injury and susceptibility to secondary complications may result from a loss of buffering of inflammatory lipid mediators. The lack of reported human antibodies directed against gelsolin indicates that this normal plasma constituent has a high degree of structural conservation between individuals. Therefore it is a preferred embodiment of the present invention to provide methods of using gelsolin as a potential treatment for the sepsis syndrome.

Transgenic constructs may be generated comprising an isolated nucleic acid comprising the nucleic or amino acid sequence of gelsolin or an active fragment thereof. Suitable vectors include but are not limited to plasmids containing a sense or antisense strand placed under the control of the strong constitutive promoter or under the control of an inducible promoter. Methods for the generation of such constructs are well known in the art once the sequence of the desired gene is known. Suitable vector and gene combinations will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art.

A vector is a composition of matter which comprises an isolated nucleic acid and which can be used to deliver the isolated nucleic acid to the interior of a cell. Numerous vectors are known in the art including but not limited to linear polynucleotides polynucleotides associated with ionic or amphiphilic compounds plasmids and viruses. Thus the term vector includes an autonomously replicating plasmid or a virus. The term should also be construed to include non plasmid and non viral compounds which facilitate transfer of nucleic acid into cells such as for example polylysine compounds liposomes and the like. Expression vector refers to a vector comprising a recombinant polynucleotide comprising expression control sequences operatively linked to a nucleotide sequence to be expressed. An expression vector comprises sufficient cis acting elements for expression other elements for expression can be supplied by the host cell or in an in vitro expression system. Expression vectors include all those known in the art such as cosmids plasmids e.g. naked or contained in liposomes and viruses that incorporate the recombinant polynucleotide.

The nucleic acid encoding the gelsolin peptide can be duplicated using a host vector system and traditional cloning techniques with appropriate replication vectors. A host vector system refers to host cells which have been transfected with appropriate vectors using recombinant DNA techniques. The vectors and methods disclosed herein are suitable for use in host cells over a wide range of eukaryotic organisms. This invention also encompasses cells transformed with the replication and expression vectors using methods known in the art. Indeed a gene encoding the modulating nucleic acid such as the nucleic acid sequence encoding gelsolin can be duplicated in many replication vectors and isolated using methods described e.g. in Sambrook et al. 1989.

The selected gene made and isolated using the above methods can be directly inserted into an expression vector such pcDNA3 Invitrogen and inserted into a suitable animal or mammalian cell. In the practice of one embodiment of this invention the gene or gene fragment such as the purified nucleic acid molecule encoding e.g. gelsolin is introduced into the cell and expressed. A variety of different gene transfer approaches are available to deliver the gene or gene fragment encoding the modulating nucleic acid into a target cell cells or tissues.

As used herein recombinant is intended to mean that a particular DNA sequence is the product of various combination of cloning restriction and ligation steps resulting in a construct having a synthetic sequence that is indistinguishable from homologous sequences found in natural systems. Recombinant sequences can be assembled from cloned fragments and short oligonucleotides linkers or from a series of oligonucleotides. As noted above one means to introduce the nucleic acid into the cell of interest is by the use of a recombinant expression vector. Recombinant expression vector is intended to include vectors capable of expressing DNA sequences contained therein where such sequences are operatively linked to other sequences capable of effecting their expression. It is implied although not always explicitly stated that these expression vectors must be replicable in the host organisms either as episomes or as an integral part of the chromosomal DNA. Suitable expression vectors include viral vectors e.g. adenoviruses adeno associated viruses retroviruses cosmids and others typically in an attenuated or non replicative form. Adenoviral vectors are a particularly effective means for introducing genes into tissues in vivo because of their high level of expression and efficient transformation of cells both in vitro and in vivo.

Accordingly when reference is made herein to administering gelsolin or a functionally equivalent peptide fragment thereof to a patient it is intended that such methods include not only delivery of an exogenous composition to the patient but also methods for increasing expression levels of the gelsolin within the patient. Expression levels of the gene or nucleotide sequence inside a target cell are capable of providing gene expression for a duration and in an amount such that the nucleotide product therein is capable of providing a therapeutically effective amount of gene product or in such an amount as to provide a functional biological effect on the target cell. By gene delivery is meant transportation of a composition or formulation into contact with a target cell so that the composition or formulation is capable of being taken up by means of a cytotic process into the interior or cytoplasmic side of the outermost cell membrane of the target cell where it will subsequently be transported into the nucleus of the cell in such functional condition that it is capable of achieving gene expression.

By gene expression is meant the process after delivery into a target cell by which a nucleotide sequence undergoes successful transcription and translation such that detectable levels of the delivered nucleotide sequence are expressed in an amount and over a time period that a functional biological effect is achieved. Gene therapy encompasses the terms gene delivery and gene expression. Moreover treatment by any gene therapy approach may be combined with other more traditional therapies.

By patient or subject is meant any vertebrate or animal preferably a mammal most preferably a human that is affected by or susceptible to endotoxin induced sepsis or inflammation induced pulmonary microvascular dysfunction. Thus included within the present invention are animal bird reptile or veterinary patients or subjects the intended meaning of which is self evident. The methods of the present invention are useful in such a patient for the treatment or prevention of the following without limitation septic shock pathogenesis relating to a severe burn myocardial infarction acute hepatic failure myonecrosis acute lung injury and adult respiratory distress multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ARDS MODS .

In another embodiment of the present invention the gelsolin or gelsolin active fragment SEQ ID No 1 is designed by mimetics for synthetic production. The designing of mimetics to a pharmaceutically active compound is a known approach to the development of pharmaceuticals based on a lead compound. This might be desirable where the active compound is difficult or expensive to synthesize or where it is unsuitable for a particular method of administration. Mimetic design synthesis and testing is generally used to avoid randomly screening large number of molecules for a target property see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 773 5 750 353 5 925 529 5 744 303 5 569 588 and 5 407 821.

The invention further provides an assay for determining agents which bind to neutralize or inhibit LPS LTA or other factors in a sequence of events leading to the onset of endotoxemic sepsis or inflammation induced pulmonary microvascular dysfunction thereby reducing modulating or preventing such pathologies. Such an assay comprises administering an agent under test to the cells or model animals such as those described herein at low cell density and monitoring the onset or severity of sepsis or microvascular dysfunction. A further assay according to the invention comprises administering the agent under test to photoreceptor cells at high cell density and monitoring the onset or severity of sepsis or microvascular dysfunction. Agents may thus be selected which effectively reduce inhibit neutralize or prevent sepsis microvascular dysfunction ARDS or the like. The agents thus selected are also intended to be a part of the present invention.

In yet another embodiment sensitivity of gelsolin levels in vivo are used as a biomarker for measuring disease severity in sepsis or inflammation or for determining levels of bacterial endotoxins.

In accordance with the present invention the gelsolin or fragment thereof intended to bind to neutralize or inhibit LPS LTA F actin binding proteins or other factors in a sequence of events leading the onset of endotoxemic sepsis thereby reducing modulating or preventing such sepsis or inflammatory response as described above when used in therapy for example in the treatment of an endotoxemic patient or one infected with a gram positive or gram negative bacteria can be administered to such a patient either alone or as part of a pharmaceutically acceptable composition and optionally with a preservative diluent and the like. They may further be administered in the form of a composition in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient and which may further comprise pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Examples of such carriers include both liquid and solid carriers such as water or saline various buffer solutions cyclodextrins and other protective carriers or complexes glycerol and prodrug formulations. Combinations may include other pharmaceutical agents.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to physiologically and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the invention i.e. salts that retain the desired biological activity of the parent compound and do not impart undesired toxicological effects thereto.

Various methods of administration of the therapeutic or preventative agent can be used following known formulations and procedures. Although parental administration is described herein and is generally preferred systemic or targeted administration may also be employed under suitable circumstances. Compounds or compositions suitable for parenteral injection may comprise physiologically acceptable sterile aqueous or nonaqueous solutions dispersions suspensions or emulsions and sterile powders for reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers diluents solvents or vehicles include water saline buffered saline dextrose ethanol glycerol polyols and the like and suitable mixtures thereof. Proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions and by the use of surfactants. These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preserving wetting emulsifying and dispensing agents. Sterility can be ensured by the addition of various antibacterial and antifungal agents. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents for example sugars sodium chloride and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the use of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Amounts and regimens for the administration of gelsolin or related actin binding compounds can be determined readily by those with ordinary skill in the clinical art of treating actin related disorders tissue injury or inflammation. Generally the dosage of gelsolin or related actin binding compound treatment will vary depending upon considerations such as age health conditions being treated kind of concurrent treatment if any frequency of treatment and the nature of the effect desired extent of tissue damage gender duration of the symptoms and counter indications if any and other variables to be adjusted by the individual physician. Dosage can be administered in one or more applications to obtain the desired results see e.g. dosages proposed for human therapy by Rothenbach et al. 2004 supra .

The dosage can be calculated in the following manner. If the normal blood gelsolin concentration is 2.4 M 2.4 mol l and the normal blood DBP concentration is 5 M 5 mol l . Thus the total blood actin binding capacity ABC is approximately 7.5 mol l. The blood volume is 6 of the body weight hence a 70 kg person has about 4.2 liters of blood and as a result 4.21 7.5 mol l 31.5 mols ABC. Since gelsolin is distributed throughout the extracellular space which is 10 of body weight the body contains 7.5 7 52.5 mols gelsolin ABC.

It may be desired to administer between 32 and 53 mols of gelsolin or 0.46 mol kg body weight to cover total complexing or depletion of endogenous gelsolin or other actin binding compounds. Plasma concentration of endogenous gelsolin in normal uninjured humans is 211 g ml and in rabbits 368 g ml Lind et al. 1986 supra . Since 0.425 mg of actin is equal to 1 mol and since there is 4.86 mg actin per gram of skeletal muscle each gram of muscle contains about 11.3 mol actin. Thus 4.6 g of muscle destruction could neutralize total body gelsolin or other actin binding compounds. However because the toxic effects of actin are presumably local e.g. inhibition of clot lysis sequestered or kinetically determined e.g. actin permeates an organ faster than binding proteins neutralize it it is likely that a theoretically minimum dose will have to be adjusted upward in order to achieve kinetically favorable therapeutic effects. The kinetic effect can be important since there is apparently slow equilibration between extravascular and blood compartments acutely Smith et al. 1988 supra . Conversely a therapeutically effective state capable of breaking up local deposits of actin may be achievable only by a transient pulse of a high concentration of gelsolin or actin binding molecules.

Instead of administering the gelsolin or gelsolin peptides or other binding compounds directly they can also be produced in the target cells by expression from an encoding gene introduced into the cells e.g. in a viral vector. The vector could be targeted to the specific cells to be treated or it could contain regulatory elements which are switched on more or less selectively by the target cells. Increased expression is referred to as up regulation.

By therapeutically effective as used herein is meant that amount of composition that is of sufficient quality and quantity to neutralize ameliorate modulate or reduce the cause of or effect of endotoxin caused sepsis or inflammation. Because the gelsolin lipid binding activity is Ca mediated it is assumed when the term therapeutically effective with regard to administration of gelsolin or the functionally equivalent peptide fragment thereof that Ca or other necessary divalent ion is present at the levels necessary to activate the gelsolin molecule. By ameliorate modulate or reduce is meant a lessening or reduction or prophylactic prevention of the detrimental effect of the disorder in the patient receiving the therapy thereby resulting in protecting the patient. A sufficient amount or effective amount or therapeutically effective amount of an administered composition is that volume or concentration which causes or produces a measurable change from the pre administration state in the cell or patient. The subject of the invention is preferably a human patient however it can be envisioned that any animal with endotoxemia or sepsis can be treated in a method of the present invention. As used herein the terms treating and treatment are intended to include the terms preventing and prevention. One embodiment of the present invention includes the administration of gelsolin or fragment thereof in an amount to treat or prevent sepsis and inactivate bacterial endotoxin.

By inhibition or blocking refer to a statistically significant reduction in inflammation or in toxins that cause inflammation sepsis associated with LPS or LTA as compared with a selected standard of activity or for cells or tissues grown without gelsolin. Preventing refers to effectively 100 levels of prophylactic inhibition. Preferably the increased levels of gelsolin meaning a higher concentration than was present before additional gelsolin was added or before gelsolin expression was up regulated in the patient reduces sepsis or risk of sepsis by at least 20 more preferably by at least 50 even more preferably by 80 or greater and also preferably in a dose dependent manner.

The invention is further defined by reference to the following specific but nonlimiting examples that describe in detail the preparation of exemplary injectable compositions and methods using them for tissue engineering. Reference is made to standard textbooks of molecular biology that contain definitions and methods and means for carrying out basic techniques encompassed by the present invention. See for example Maniatis et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory N.Y. 1982 and Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory N.Y. 1989 and the various references cited therein. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that many modifications both to materials and methods may be practiced without departing from the purpose or narrowing the scope of this invention.

To provide chemical and functional evidence that gelsolin binds LPS through its lipid binding domain a solid phase assay was conducted in which radiolabeled LPS was added to wells coated with different amounts of rhodamine B labeled SEQ ID No 1 rhodamine B QRLFQVKGRR derived from the PIP2 binding site of gelsolin and termed PBP10 or to a truncated peptide rhodamine B QRL in the absence or presence of unlabeled LPS respectively.

SEQ ID No 1 QRLFQVKGRR gelsolin residues 160 169 and QRL peptides were prepared by solid phase peptide synthesis on p benzyloxybenzyl alcohol polystyrene resin using alpha Fmoc protection chemistry and carbodiimide N hydroxybenzotriazole coupling as taught by Cunningham et al. 276 43390 9 2001 . The side chains were protected as follows Arg Pmc Gln Trt Lys Boc . To couple fluorophores onto these peptides ester derivatives of each fluorophore were created and linked directly to the N terminus of the peptides on the solid phase support. After coupling the peptides were cleaved from the solid support with trifluoroacetic acid and phenol 95 5 v w . All peptides were purified by reverse phase HPLC on a silica C 18 column using a 20 60 acetonitrile gradient in 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid and dried Cunningham et al. 2001 supra .

To determine the interaction of LPS with gelsolin and fluorescence peptides derived from gelsolin PIP2 binding site the fluorescence of rhodamine B peptide SEQ ID No 1 or emissions spectra of pyrene peptide SEQ ID No 1 QRLFQVKGRR em 590 nm ex 560 nm or em 365 550 nm ex 343 nm respectively was measured fifteen minutes after addition of various concentrations of LPS serotype 026 B6 Sigma PIP2 LPA or PS added to 2 M solutions of the peptides in buffer A 10 mM TRIS 10 mM MES 2 morpholinoethane sulfonic acid pH 7.0. Since the surface concentration of the peptides bound to the lipids will become much higher than their bulk concentration peptide binding was demonstrated by changes of either rhodamine B fluorescence or formation of pyrene excimers with a shift of fluorescence emission from the monomer wavelength at 378 nm to the excimer emission at 473 nm. Therefore to determine changes of gelsolin OD at 280 nm different amounts of LPS LPA and PS were added to recombinant human gelsolin rhGLS solutions and OD emission spectra were recorded using spectrophotometer Genesys 6 Thermo Spectronic USA .

Tritium labeling of LPS was done by a modification of the procedure of Watson and Riblet Watson et al. 114 1462 8 1975 . A sample 2 mg of LPS from Re595 Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. was oxidized 150 minutes 20 C. with sodium periodate 3 10M . After destruction of the oxidant with 1.0 M ethylene glycol aldehyde groups were reduced 18 hours at 4 C. with an ice cold solution of NaB H 0.46 GBq 481 GBq mmole wherein GBq refers to a unit of radioactivity Amersham Pharmacia Biotech Buckinghamshire England in 200 l of ice cold borate buffer 0.05 M pH 9.5 . Excess sodium borohydride was destroyed with 5 l of acetic acid. After two washings centrifugation at 100 000 g for 15 minutes in 400 l of an ice cold water ethanol mixture 1 1 by vol. the radiolabeled H LPS 9 10cpm g 2 10cpm pmole was stored at 20 C. until used.

To measure H labeled LPS binding polystyrene ELISA type microplates 96 wells were coated with PBP10 or rhodamine B QRL RhB QRL by incubation for 18 hours at 4 C. with a solution 100 l 500 pmole well in saline. After three washings with 100 l saline the wells were then incubated at room temperature with H LPS 360 000 c.p.m. in the presence or absence of unlabeled LPS 20 g well in a binding medium 100 l containing bovine serum albumin 50 g in saline. After 3 hours of incubation the plates were washed three times with 100 l saline washes and the remaining bound radioactivity was measured.

The results are shown in of the solid phase assay wherein radiolabeled LPS was added to wells coated with different amounts of PBP10 peptides cold LPS. The results in the absence of unlabeled LPS is shown as open circles while the presence of unlabeled LPS is shown as open triangles. As shown LPS saturably bound PBP10 and resulted in substantial inhibition of labeled LPS binding in the presence of excess LPS. By comparison the truncated peptide rhodamine B QRL did not bind LPS.

The fluorescence of rhodamine B SEQ ID No 1 QRLFQVKGRR was also changed by LPS as shown in . There was also no fluorescence change after adding LPS to a control peptide with the sequence rhodamine B QRL RhB QRL data not shown .

Interaction of LPS and gelsolin was examined using rhodamine B and pyrene labeled SEQ ID No 1 QRLFQVKGRR . The effect of LPS on gelsolin was determined in terms of the rhodamine B fluorescent changes of PBP10 peptide in the presence of different lipids and the fluorescence emission spectra of pyrene labeled SEQ ID No 1 2 M in the presence of LPS from 1.2 M PIP2 0.82 M and LPA 0.82 M The results using the pyrene derivatized gelsolin peptide confirmed the LPS induced clustering of the peptide with resulting excimer fluorescence of the pyrene group which was evident as a large increase in fluorescence emission at 480 nm. LPS LPA and PIP2 had similar abilities to induce excimer formation whereas PS had no effect data not shown .

Alternative assays could also be used to confirm the binding characteristics of LPS to gelsolin. One test uses radiolabeled LPS and assays for gelsolin by affinity chromatography using immobilized anti gelsolin antibody a similar assay was used to detect binding of PIP2 to gelsolin Janmey et al. 325 362 364 1987 . Glass tubes containing phosphatidylcholine PC 0.3 mg alone or mixed with the material to be tested gelsolin gelsolin half mutant lacking PIP2 binding site PBP10 peptide etc is evaporated to dryness. After sonication with a solution of BSA 60 l 1 mg ml in 0.15 M NaCl the vesicles are incubated 2 hours 20 C. under gentle rotation with H LPS. Then the density is adjusted to 1.185 g ml by addition of 350 l of a solution of 1.1 NaCl and 46 NaBr. A discontinuous gradient will be prepared by sequential addition of 23 NaCl 700 l and the radioactive suspension 700 l 20.5 NaCl 700 l 16.5 NaCl 700 l and 8 NaCl 200 l . After centrifugation 65 000 g 90 minutes the radioactivity of collected fractions is measured by liquid scintillation. Vesicles with bound radio labeled LPS are recovered at the top 1 ml of the density gradient whereas unbound H LPS was found at the bottom. The LPS binding index of a compound is defined as the radioactivity recovered at the top 1 ml of the density gradient expressed as a percentage of the total radioactivity recovered.

The molecular structure of LPS and its complexes with proteins can be measured at nm resolution by X ray and neutron scattering as well as by electron and atomic force microscopy. shows preliminary neutron scattering measurements of the effects of gelsolin peptide SEQ ID No 1 on LPS structure.

The linearity of the plot of ln QI Q vs. Q2 suggests that LPS forms a cylindrical structure under the conditions used consistent with an earlier neutron scattering study Hayter et al. 262 5100 5105 1987 . The small but significant increase in calculated diameter of LPS when the gelsolin peptide is added suggests an alteration of the diameter. At present these data only serve to confirm that sufficiently good scattering data can be gathered for structural analysis. At present the calculated diameter 36 nm is greater than that which has been previously reported for pure LPS micelles and the difference in size may reflect another structural feature. In additional experiments with more variations in gelsolin LPS or peptide LPS ratios will reveal if there are significant changes in LPS particle structure when these peptides bind LPS.

Further neutron scattering studies can be done at Argonne National Laboratories where the present data were taken. Each such measurement takes about 4 to 6 hours of beam time so specimens are limited to selected conditions in which DLS or electron microscopy suggests novel structures formed by LPS and gelsolin and where the biological activity of LPS is inhibited. Transmission electron microscopy of these complexes will also be done. If lamellar ribbon like structures similar to those formed by PEP2 and gelsolin geometrically the headgroups may be occluded in the interior of the ribbon and if similar structures are seen when adding gelsolin to LPS the removal of the charged groups of LPS from the surface of the structure may relate to a loss of its cellular effects.

To determinate whether gelsolin can effect an action similar to LBP mediated incorporation of LPS into blood lipoprotein an experiment is utilized in which repartition of Bodipy or H labeled LPS to reconstituted HDL R HDL or plasma lipoproteins is measured. R HDL is prepared by mixing apo A 1 egg PC cholesterol and cholate at molar ratio 1 80 4 80 followed cholate dialysis as previously described by Yu et al. 1997 supra. The fluorescence of Bodipy LPS in micelles is quenched but quenching is relieved and fluorescence increases upon movement of Bodipy LPS monomers out of aggregates. An increase in fluorescence is observed when both gelsolin and R HDL are mixed with Bodipy LPS provides evidence for gelsolin depended transfer of LPS to R HDL similar to that seen with LBP. Pure LPS and various amounts of gelsolin are added to observe if gelsolin alone changes the Bodipy LPS fluorescence since any such change will have to be subtracted from the initial fluorescence after adding lipoproteins. The rate and extent of fluorescence change after lipoprotein addition offers a means for monitoring exchange of LPS into the lipoprotein particles. For purified systems lipoprotein size is also measured by dynamic light scattering. Since DLS data are heavily weighted by the largest particles the average hydrodynamic diameter will be nearly equal to that of lipoproteins alone and any change indicates that the particles are fragmented or fused by gelsolin LPS.

Since fluorescence measurements are strongly perturbed in plasma or serum partitioning is examined of H labeled LPS to blood plasma lipoprotein fractions in gelsolin depleted samples using anti gelsolin coated sepharose 2B beads as done previously by Janmey et al. 1987 supra or in plasma of gelsolin null mice after adding back various concentrations of gelsolin. Because the interactions of two other known plasma proteins a soluble form of CD14 receptor sCD14 and plasma LBP their plasma concentration is 2 6 g ml and 3 10 g ml respectively may interfere with this assay these proteins are also be removed by sepharose 2B beads coated with their respective antibodies.

To determine competition between gelsolin and LPS binding proteins LPB a high affinity carrier for LPS the LPS coated wells 1 nmole per well of LPS Re 595 from were saturated by incubation 2 hours 20 C. with gelsolin 2 mg ml in RPMI washed and preincubated with different amount of recombinant human gelsolin 0 2 ng well in gelsolin 0.5 mg ml containing RPMI. RPMI medium refers to Roswell Park Memorial Institute medium typically used to culture human lymphoid cells. Then 10 l of I LPB 6 10cpm were added and the plates were incubated for 90 minutes at 37 C. then washed six times with RPMI. After that the bound radioactivity was measured. Similarly gelsolin coated wells were used to demonstrate whether rhGLS directly interacts with I LPB.

It was shown that nanomolar concentrations of gelsolin inhibited the binding of I LBP LPS binding protein to LPS coated wells by 69 6 . Moreover the inhibition of LBP LPS binding was not due to the direct binding of LBP to gelsolin since I LBP did not bind to gelsolin coated surfaces . Because plasma contains higher levels of gelsolin 150 300 g ml than the gelsolin in LBP 3 10 g ml these data showing comparable affinity of gelsolin and LBP for LPS demonstrate that gelsolin plays a role in LPS buffering or presentation.

To determine gelsolin s severing activity rates of fluorescence decrease were evaluated during depolymerization. Monomeric G actin was prepared from an acetone powder of rabbit skeletal muscle according to previously published methods Spudich et al. 216 4866 4871 1975 . The non polymerizing solution contained 2 mM TRIS 0.2 mM CaCl 0.5 mM ATP adenosine triphosphate 0.2 mM DTT dithiothreitol pH 7.4. Actin was polymerized by adding 150 mM KCl and 2 mM MgClto the G actin solutions and incubating for 1 hour at room temperature.

For F actin severing assays in general a small volume typically 5 l of the gelsolin composition is added to a similar volume of pyrene labeled F actin at a concentration adjusted to provide an actin gelsolin ratio of approximately 10 1 typically 1 M gelsolin and 10 M actin . This mixture is the diluted to 0.5 M in a larger volume of F actin buffer and the filament severing efficiency is calculated from the initial slope of the fluorescence change. This reflects the rate of depolymerization that in turn is proportional to the number of cuts made by gelsolin. The LPS gelsolin reaction can be done under any ionic condition and the addition to F actin requires the presence of M Ca to activate the gelsolin. However since the severing reaction requires only a few seconds and the effects of Ca on lipid aggregate size is slower and at least for gelsolin PIP2 does not reverse any complexes formed under other ionic conditions it is possible to a large extent to alter the ionic conditions at which gelsolin binds LPS. The actin nucleation reaction is similar except that in the latter case the gelsolin LPS mixture is added to a more dilute solution of G actin typically 1 or 2 M in low ionic strength buffer followed immediately by addition of 150 mM KCI and 2 mM MgClto initiate polymerization.

Any difference observed for binding of LPS to gelsolin or PBP10 by fluorescence assays in the present invention are also evaluated by the filament severing and nucleation tests.

As shown recombinant human gelsolin rhGLS and blood serum severing activity was measured in 0.4 M pyrene labeled F actin samples polymerized with 50 pyrene labeled G actin after adding gelsolin 16 nM serum 2.5 l or their combination with one of the following LPS from different species PIP2 phosphatidyl inositol 4 5 bisphosphate LPA lysophosphatidic acid lipid A the LPS derivative lacking polysaccharide or PS phosphatidylserine . The fluorescence intensity of F pyrene actin was then monitored for 10 minutes and the severing activity was calculated based on decreasing fluorescence. Severing activity was determined from a decrease in rate of fluorescence during depolymerization and the depolymerization rate was calculated from the slope of the early decrease in fluorescence.

When added to purified human gelsolin 0.02 M LPS 100 ng ml inhibited 50 of the severing activity of 0.016 M gelsolin and severing capability was 90 inhibited by a 10 fold increase to 0.1 M LPS . On a molar basis LPS was found to be a more potent inhibitor than either LPA or PIP2. A 10 fold molar excess of LPS from serotype 026 B6 ATCC13076 strain or serotype 10 data not shown effectively inhibited the ability of gelsolin to sever actin filaments. Lipid A had a weaker but still significant inhibitory effect and nonspecific anionic lipids like PS had no effect data not shown . When added to whole human serum LPS and PIP2 were also able to inhibit gelsolin activity although larger amounts were needed compared to inhibition of pure gelsolin in aqueous solution.

In light of the findings in the previous Examples and using the materials prepared in above the effect of the gelsolin binding by LPS was studied to determine the effect on cellular responses in vitro. Cell cultures of human aortic endothelial cells HAEC and rat primary astrocytes were used to evaluate the effect of LPS on actin. Both of these cell types have mCD14 membrane bound C14 and TLR LPS receptors Faure et al. 275 11058 11063 2000 Bsibsi et al. 61 1013 1021 2002 Bowman et al. 43 281 291 2003 .

Rat primary astrocytes were obtained from prenatal rats and maintained for 14 days in culture before use. Embryos E17 E19 were removed by caesarian section from a Sprague Dawley rat and the hippocampi were surgically removed. The tissue was digested in trypsin DNAse at 37 C. centrifuged 1000 5 min and filtered to derive suspensions from each pup. Cells were grown in an incubator at 37 C. and 5 COin DMEM Dulbecco s Modified Eagle s Medium BioWhittaker Cambrex BioScience East Rutherford N.J. supplemented with Ham s F12 Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. and 5 fetal bovine serum FBS Hyclone Logan Utah for 7 days followed by an additional 7 days in Neurobasal medium Gibco Grand Island N.Y. also supplemented with 5 FBS 2 mM l glutamine 50 g ml streptomycin and 50 U ml penicillin. In each experiment the medium was changed to serum free at 6 12 hours prior to addition of LPS TNF or gelsolin.

HAECs primary human aortic endothelial cells ATCC Rockville Md. or Clonetics San Diego Calif. will grow to confluence through passages 5 9 in endothelial cell growth medium supplemented with 2 fetal bovine serum 10 g liter human recombinant epidermal growth factor 1 mg liter hydrocortisone 50 g ml gentamicin 50 ng ml amphotericin B in a 37 C. humidified atmosphere of 95 air 5 C0.

HAECs and astrocytes cultures were incubated for 10 minutes in medium containing 10 g ml LPS alone or LPS that had been pre incubated with 0.16 mg ml of human gelsolin. Cultures were fixed with ice cold methanol and immunostained for F actin with fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC labeled phalloidin Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. . In astrocyte cultures NF B translocation was manipulated by a 2 hour incubation in serum free medium containing one of the following 10 ng ml TNF 10 g ml LPS alone or LPS that had been preincubated with 0.16 mg ml human gelsolin. Location of transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB NF B was observed using a monoclonal antibody to NF B Molecular Probes and cell nuclei were detected by counter staining with 4 6 diamidino 2 phenylindole dihydrochloride DAPI Sigma .

Gelsolin binding to LPS also influenced in vitro cellular responses to LPS protecting platelets aortic endothelial cells HAEC as well as primary rat astrocytes against LPS. At relatively high concentrations LPS rapidly induced the disassembly of the actin cytoskeleton as seen in the disrupted and diffuse phalloidin staining in compared to the abundant actin bundles seen in the controls . However when first incubated with an excess of plasma gelsolin LPS had no discernable effect on the actin cytoskeletons of either HAEC or astrocytes.

More specifically show that LPS induced disruption of cellular responses was inhibited by pre incubating the LPS with plasma gelsolin. Briefly immunostaining for F actin with phalloidin was used to demonstrate that plasma gelsolin prevented LPS induced actin cytoskeleton disassembly. Cultured human aortic endothelial cells and primary rat astrocytes were treated with 2 M LPS or with 2 M LPS and 1.8 M gelsolin . When the endothelial cells and astrocytes were exposed to LPS 10 g ml disassembly of the actin cytoskeleton was readily induced as seen in the disrupted and diffuse phalloidin staining in as compared to the abundant actin bundles in controls . Control cells are shown in .

LPS is known to activate NF B triggering induction of pro inflammatory cytokine genes see Saura et al. 85 1455 67 June 2003 . However in the astrocytes the addition of 10 ng ml TNF or 2 M LPS caused NF B translocation to the nucleoplasm of the nucleus as compared with control astrocytes in which the NF B locates in the cytoplasm . However when first incubated pre incubated with 1.8 M of plasma gelsolin LPS had no discernable effect on the actin cytoskeletons of either the endothelial cells or the astrocytes. The addition of gelsolin completely blocked the LPS induced translocation of NF B as shown by immunostaining for NF B with an antibody against NF B and cell nuclei with DAPI . Preincubation with 1.8 M gelsolin blocked LPS induced translocation .

To isolate human platelets blood from healthy volunteers was collected in acid citrate dextrose. Platelet rich plasma obtained after centrifugation 15 minutes 110 g at room temperature was supplemented with apyrase 0.5 U ml Sigma Aldrich to degrade excess nucleotides. Platelets were sedimented by centrifugation 10 minutes 1000 g suspended in buffer A 139 mM NaCl 2.8 mM KCl 0.8 mM MgCl 0.8 mM KHPO 8.9 mM NaHCO 10 mM HEPES 5.6 mM glucose 0.3 albumin pH 7.35 and filtered on a 50 ml column of Sepharose 2B to obtain gel filtered platelets GFP .

Platelet aggregation was initiated by adding collagen 10 g ml Chrono Log Corp. Havertown Pa. . Platelet aggregation was monitored using a Chronolog Lumi Aggregometer Chrono Log Corp. . Changes in light transmission were recorded for 10 minutes using a PowerLab 200 instrument and MacLab Chart program Version 3.2. When required before activation the platelet suspension was reacted with LPS or LPS preincubated with the SEQ ID No 1 peptide QRLFQVKGRR .

A shown in platelet aggregation was stimulated by collagen. When added alone LPS strongly inhibited collagen induced aggregation and secretion of platelets. Addition of gelsolin SEQ ID No 1 to LPS before its addition to platelets restored in a peptide concentration dependent manner the normal collagen induced platelets activation. However gelsolin SEQ ID No 1 by itself had no effect on collagen mediated platelet functions.

Since humans with sepsis have decreased plasma gelsolin concentrations the effect of LPS administration on gelsolin levels was examined in mice. 6 7 week old male wild type C57BL 6 mice each weighing 18 20 grams purchased from Charles River Laboratories Wilmington Mass. are used for all animal studies. Mice are given free access to a standard feed and water and all procedures and studies are approved by Harvard Medical Area Standing Committee on Animals according to standards as set forth in The Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.

In a dose response assay animals are injected i.p. intraperitoneally with LPS Serotype 10 Sigma at doses of 0 10 20 and 40 mg kg. 3 4 animals are used in each group. 24 hours after administration of the LPS the animals are anesthetized with Avertin i.p. Fluka Chemie Switzerland at dose of 0.015 0.017 mg g. Blood is then collected by retro orbital bleeding into 0.1 volume of Aster Jandl anticoagulant and centrifuged at 1000 g for 10 minutes. Plasma is aspirated and frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored in 80 C. until analyzed.

After sacrificing the anesthetized animals by cervical dislocation peritoneal lavage is performed by injecting 3 ml of sterile PBS into the mouse peritoneal cavity. After gently messaging the abdomen the fluid is aspirated by a syringe connected to a 22 gauge needle and centrifuged at 1000 g for 10 minutes to remove cellular contents. The supernatant fluid is collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C. until analyzed.

To study the effect on mortality animals are injected i.p. with 25 mg kg LPS 055 B5 Sigma and each mouse is randomly selected to receive one of the following three treatments 1 GSN containing 8 mg of recombinant human plasma gelsolin Biogen IDEC Inc containing 1 mM Ca dissolved in 400 l of 0.15 M NaCl saline or 2 BSA containing 8 mg of bovine albumin Serologicals Proteins Inc Kankakee Ill. containing 1 mM Ca dissolved in 400 l of saline or 3 saline containing only 400 l saline . The GSN gelsolin BSA or saline solutions are administered subcutaneously at the dorsal surface of each animal immediately after LPS instillation and then repeated at 24 48 and 72 hours.

There are 9 mice in the saline group and 8 mice each in the GSN group and the BSA group. Animals are monitored frequently and mortality is recorded and presented at an interval of days. Animal mortality study data are presented as Kaplan Meier curves and log rank test is used to analyze treatment impact on animal mortality. Ap value less than 0.05 is considered significant.

To measure gelsolin in vivo a nucleation assay for plasma gelsolin is performed as follows the collected mouse plasma is diluted 1 5 in Buffer B 0.1 M KCI 0.2 mM MgCl 1 mM EGTA ethyleneglycol bis 2 aminoethyl N N N N tetraacetic acid 0.5 mM ATP 0.5 mM mercaptoethanol 10 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.4 . From the diluted plasma sample 5 l is added to 280 l Buffer B supplemented with 1.5 mm CaCland 0.4 M phallacidin in 6 50 mm borosilicate culture tubes. The actin polymerization reaction is initiated by adding 15 l 20 M pyrene actin in Buffer A 0.5 mM ATP 0.5 mM mercaptoethanol 0.2 mM CaCl0.2 mM Tris HCl buffer pH 7.4 . Polymerization is monitored for 200 seconds in a spectrofluorimeter at excitation and emission wavelengths of 366 and 386 nm respectively. Gelsolin concentrations are estimated from a standard curve using recombinant human plasma gelsolin.

For all of fluorescence measurements in this or the foregoing Examples or in future assays initial studies are done with a standard fluorimeter for which a sample holder is adapted to preferably permit measurements from samples as small as 200 L in disposable pyrogen free glass tubes. The pyrogen free aspect is irrelevant for most studies since relatively larger amounts ng ml to g ml of LPS will be added. But for other studies using specialized reagents use of standard fluorimeter cuvettes is impractical since minimization of sample volume is needed to reduce the cost of the specialized reagents. The fluorescence intensity of PBP10 is high enough to read at 2 M levels and the fluorescence intensity will only go up when binding LPS.

Measurement of peritoneal lavage gelsolin is performed similarly except 50 l of peritoneal lavage and 30 l of pyrene actin is used instead. Stock pyrene actin for these assays prepared by the method of Kouyama and Mihashi Kouyama et al. 114 33 38 1981 is stored at 80 C. in lots thawed and diluted 10 with Buffer A centrifuged at 250k g for 30 minutes after standing overnight.

Plasma gelsolin is measured by the actin nucleation assay described above and repeated each assay was done in duplicate . All values are presented as mean SD. A nonparametric test Spearman Rank Correlation is used to analyze correlations in the dose response study. Mann Whiney U test is performed when comparing gelsolin levels. Plasma albumin levels are measured colorimetricly using a commercial kit Stanbio Laboratory Boerne Tex. according to the manufacture s instruction.

When mice receiving lethal doses of LPS intraperitoneally are treated with gelsolin GSN albumin BSA or saline respectively the exogenous plasma gelsolin rescues the endotoxemic mice. This is a dramatic response to gelsolin treatment since mice receiving either the BSA or saline therapies all die within 6 days of LPS treatment. See PCT Appl. No. PCT US04 037763. By comparison after 1 week the surviving mice all in the GSN group all appear to have complete recovery and exhibit no signs of distress. The gelsolin amounts administered by this route restore plasma levels in LPS treated animals to 200 g ml which is slightly greater than the baseline concentrations data not shown . Therefore it can be concluded that animals treated in vivo with plasma gelsolin have markedly improved survival compared to those treated with saline or BSA controls.

In light of the foregoing data in Example 5 suggesting that administration of exogenous plasma gelsolin can improve survival in endotoxemic animals gelsolin null and wild type mice are exposed to similar endotoxemic challenge and determine if there are differences in survival and in markers of inflammation. Moreover although it is not yet definitely known through which inflammation pathway inflammation plasma gelsolin exerts its effect. Consequently exogenous plasma gelsolin administration improves survival of wild type septic animals decreases secondary organ damage and is associated with lower inflammatory mediators.

The general design of the experiment employs two different models of sepsis 1 the LPS induced endotoxemia model and 2 the cecal ligation puncture CLP mouse model. The main reason to develop the CLP model is that it more closely resembles clinical sepsis than LPS Schultz et al. 34 573 581 2002 . In practice gelsolin null and genetically similar wild type C57BL 6 mice are subjected to injury LPS or CLP . Two hours after injury wild type animals are divided randomly into 3 groups 1 an experimental group given plasma gelsolin subcutaneously and 2 control groups 2 a group given PBS and 3 a control group given only BSA protein. Six animals from each group are then anesthetized and bled at various time points 4 hr 16 hr 28 hr 40 hr from which plasma will be generated.

The plasma samples are then analyzed for plasma gelsolin levels as well as for inflammatory factors TNF IL 1 and IL 6 since these mediators are known to increase during the development of sepsis see e.g. Riedemann et al. 112 460 467 2003 . Furthermore high mobility group B 1 HMGB 1 protein is also measured since this protein has been correlated with the delayed death of septic animals Wang et al. 285 248 251 1999 . To measure the secondary organ damage plasma transaminases ALT AST LDH and creatinine are measured and compared. Additionally there will be 10 animals in each arm of the study that are subjected to CLP in the death as end point study. Based on the data above this number of animals is sufficient to most likely yield statistically significant differences in mortality between control and experimental animals.

Based upon the previous data at least from Example 5 with LPS septic mice gelsolin null animals should have significantly higher mortality higher inflammatory markers and more severe secondary organ damage than the wild type animals. Furthermore plasma gelsolin treatment will significantly lower the mortality rate of wild type animals subjected to CLP. Moreover it is anticipated that gelsolin treated animals will have less organ dysfunction reflected by lower levels of transaminases LDH and creatinine. Results from CLP mice therefore lend more support to gelsolin as a promising therapeutic treatment in clinical sepsis.

The cytokine profile differs somewhat between LPS and CLP models of sepsis especially in TNF production Villa et al. 2 549 553 1995 . In the LPS model TNF is intensely elevated within 2 hours of challenge see Rothenbach et al. 2004 supra. whereas in the CLP model TNF is only mildly elevated. Since the present animals are treated 2 hours after injury it is likely that TNF pathway has already been initiated and gelsolin treatment is unlikely to affect TNF levels. On the other hand IL 1 and IL 6 are elevated in both the LPS and CLP models and tend to stay elevated for many hours meaning that gelsolin treatment may affect these 2 cytokines in reducing inflammation. HMGB 1 appears later in the course of sepsis and is associated with lethality Wang et al. 1999 supra . As a result gelsolin treatment may decrease blood HMGB 1 levels reflecting the rescue effect of the gelsolin treatment.

Given that a preliminary study on trauma patients shows that there is a significant difference in the plasma gelsolin levels between surviving and non surviving critically ill patients the study is extended to include plasma gelsolin levels in patients with sepsis burns and ARDS. In general discarded anti coagulated blood is collected that has been drawn from the patients. Plasma is generated from each sample and flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored in 80 C. until measurements of plasma gelsolin and albumin levels are performed. For each patient the follow data are recorded APACHE II scores ventilated time ICU days hospital days age gender race development of ARDS and sepsis ICU mortality and hospital mortality. The primary end points of the study include ICU mortality and hospital mortality. Secondary end points include 30 day ICU free days 30 day ventilator free hours development of ARDS and sepsis.

By assuming alpha 0.05 thereby establishing a p value of 0.05 the estimated incidence of ARDS and sepsis will equal about 15 which determines the sample size needed to generate an 80 power of a two sided Fisher s exact test being able to detect an OR of 10.28 which is the estimated relative risk of ARDS or sepsis of patients with very low gelsolin compared to low to normal gelsolin levels between very low plasma gelsolin and development of ARDS or sepsis is 67 patients. It is expected that there will be a significant difference in plasma gelsolin levels between survivors and non survivors in the MICU as supported by above studies. Moreover it is further expect that those with very low plasma gelsolin levels will have significantly shorter ICU free days ventilator free hours and will be at higher risk of developing ARDS and or sepsis. Albumin level serves as the control protein to show that depression of plasma gelsolin is not simply representative of a non specific low protein state which conclusion is also supported by the data above.

To investigate whether gelsolin can prevent gram positive bacterial inflammation the effect of LTA mediated activation of human neutrophils was examined. Neutrophils were selected because their adhesion to human aorta endothelial cells HAEC is a hallmark of inflammation. The data showed that gelsolin does in fact inhibit neutrophil adhesion to LTA stimulate human endothelial cells.

As shown in LTA from gram positive bacteria interacts with gelsolin in much the same way as LPS from gram negative bacteria were shown to interact with gelsolin above. In fact LTA inhibits gelsolin to sever actin nearly as well as LPS does.

The tested gelsolin concentration was 50 nM LTA ranged from 0 50 M Pyrene F actin was 0.3 M. Recording changes in fluorescently labeled rhodamine B labeled gelsolin peptide PBP10 10 M indicates a specific interaction between gelsolin and LTA. LTA bound to gelsolin with approximately the same avidity as PIP2 thereby inhibiting the actin severing capability of gelsolin.

Neutrophils were isolated from human blood using the endotoxin free Lympholyte poly kit Cedarlane Ontario Canada . The isolated neutrophil cells were resuspended in RPMI media. The addition of LTA 10 g ml to HAECs stimulated binding of calcein AM labeled neutrophils to the endothelial surface Kawamura et al. 217 1208 1215 1995 . However when physiological concentrations of gelsolin 2 M were added along with LTA neutrophil adhesion was reduced to near baseline values. To quantify the adhesion the neutrophils were labeled with calcein AM 5 M for 30 minutes at 37 C. .

Consequently while gelsolin binding to LTA inhibits gelsolin s severing function gelsolin also inhibits the ability to LTA to promote neutrophil adhesion to the endothelium. Thus a method is provided for using gelsolin to inhibit or block inflammation which involved neutrophil adhesion to the endothelium and further offers a method of interaction with LTA to treat gram positive sepsis. Moreover a similar effect was shown in wherein bioactive eukaryotic lysophospholipid mediators of cell function such as sphingosine 1 phosphate S1P and sphingosyl phosphocoline SPC also inhibit gelsolin 50 nM at least as strongly as lysophosphatidic acid LPA when added at concentrations below 1 M. S1P is also a potent bioactive signal that increases following the onset of bacterial sepsis and other inflammatory disorders. Although details of the mechanism for this response are not yet clear part of gelsolin s effect on endotoxemia may be through binding of S1P and SPC. As a result not only does the present invention provide a method for treating LPS mediated gram negative sepsis the demonstrated interaction of gelsolin with LTA further provides a method for treating gram positive sepsis.

The disclosures of each patent patent application and publication cited or described in this document are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

While the foregoing specification has been described with regard to certain preferred embodiments and many details have been set forth for the purpose of illustration it will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention that the invention may be subject to various modifications and additional embodiments and that certain of the details described herein can be varied considerably without departing from the basic principles of the invention. Such modifications and additional embodiments are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

