---

title: Method for controlling search controller and system thereof
abstract: A method of controlling a search controller includes: monitoring a top level window which is activated on a top level among applications in execution; determining whether the monitored top level window corresponds to a File Open dialog box; attaching the search controller to the File Open dialog box, when the monitored top level window is determined as the File Open dialog box; retrieving a file corresponding to a query which is inputted from a user via the search controller, and outputting a file search result list via the search controller, the file search result list including the retrieved file; receiving a selection on a particular file, which is included in the file search result list, from the user; and transmitting path information associated with the particular file to the File Open dialog box.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08332377&OS=08332377&RS=08332377
owner: NHN Corporation
number: 08332377
owner_city: Seongnam-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20060901
---
This application claims the benefit of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2005 0082397 filed on Sep. 5 2005 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a method and system for controlling a search controller and more particularly to a method and system for controlling a search controller which can be attached to a File Open dialog box and retrieve a file when a top level window corresponds to the File Open dialog box in a local computer.

Due to developments in the Internet web search services become more popular so as to effectively manage great amounts of data on the Internet. The web search services automatically trace a hypertext structure of a web by using a web robot recursively retrieve reference documents and index the retrieved referenced documents. A user may access a search service site via the Internet input a keyword and retrieve the user s desired information such as a web document and the like from an index database.

As storage space of a personal computer PC such as a desktop and a notebook is increased a great number of files containing documents pictures mails messenger dialogs moving pictures music and the like can be stored in the storage space of the desktop or the notebook. Accordingly in addition to web searching a necessity of local computer searching for data in the desktop or the notebook has been an important issue.

As an example when a user of a desktop writes the user s impression about a movie entitled Island using a word processor and retrieves the impression about the movie Island which is stored in the desktop a few years later the user must accurately remember a directory where a corresponding file is stored and or a file name. However it is often difficult for the user to remember every directory and file name of various documents.

Accordingly when the user does not accurately remember the directory where the file is stored but knows a character string included in the file name or a file content the user may retrieve the user s desired file by using a find file function of an operating system OS . However since the find file function of the OS searches information in the user s computer in real time retrieving a file may take a significant amount of time. Also as the capacity of the storage space is increased in the computer such as a hard disk the above described disadvantage is also aggravated.

To solve the disadvantage a desktop search service has been introduced. The desktop search service searches information stored in a user computer associated with a keyword when a user inputs the keyword via a deskbar a toolbar or a web browser window. The desktop search enables the user to easily retrieve the user s desired information in the user computer and also alleviates the user s inconveniences which may be caused when manually arranging files emails favorite lists and the like.

However a conventional desktop search service modifies a network system file of an OS such as a socket Dynamic Link Library DLL intercepts a desktop search command from a web browser and generates a desktop search result and then transmits the generated desktop search result to the web browser via the modified network system file.

Accordingly when a particular file such as a winsock.dll file is corrected by the OS or other applications or when another DLL file associated with the particular file such as the winsock.dll file is modified and in this state the user accesses a particular website an error such as a corrupted screen may occur and an operation may become very unstable. Generally the OS or the application program is frequently updated. Also whenever the update is performed the socket DLL and a system DLL may be changed. Here the system DLL has a dependent feature with the socket DLL or the socket DLL depends on the system DLL. Accordingly in the conventional desktop search service an error may occur due to updating of the OS or other applications at any time.

Accordingly a local computer search method and system which stably operates by using HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP the same method as used by general web search services is required.

Also when a conventional local computer system performs a File Open function via an application program the conventional local computer system may not detect a location of a file that a user desires to open in a File Open menu. In this case the conventional local computer must execute another file search program to retrieve the file.

Accordingly a method and system for controlling a search controller which can quickly retrieve a file in interoperation with a File Open menu to quickly perform a File Open function of an application program is required.

The present invention provides a method and system for controlling a search controller which can activate and attach the search controller to a File Open dialog box so that a user may effectively retrieve a file when a File Open dialog box is activated in a local computer.

The present invention also provides a method and system for controlling a search controller which can more quickly retrieve a file while not executing another file search program in a File Open process of a local computer.

According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of controlling a search controller the method including monitoring a top level window which is activated on a top level among applications in execution determining whether the monitored top level window corresponds to a File Open dialog box attaching the search controller to the File Open dialog box when the monitored top level window is determined as the File Open dialog box retrieving a file corresponding to a query which is inputted from a user via the search controller and outputting a file search result list via the search controller the file search result list including the retrieved file receiving a selection on a particular file which is included in the file search result list from the user and transmitting path information associated with the particular file to the File Open dialog box.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for controlling a search controller the system including a monitoring module monitoring a top level window which is executing on a top level among applications in execution a determination module determining whether the monitored top level window corresponds to a File Open dialog box an attachment module attaching the search controller to the File Open dialog box when the monitored top level window is determined as the File Open dialog box a search result output module retrieving a file corresponding to a query which is inputted from a user via the search controller and outputting a file search result list via the search controller the file search result list including the retrieved file a selection module receiving a selection on a particular file which is included in the file search result list from the user and a transmission module transmitting path information associated with the particular file to the File Open dialog box.

Examples of the local computer used throughout the present specification include all the devices which include a microprocessor and a storage space such as a desktop computer a notebook computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile phone an MP3 player and the like.

Also the local computer may designate a plurality of computers which are connected to each other via a local area network LAN .

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below in order to explain the present invention by referring to the figures.

As used in this application the terms component module and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a module or a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a module. One or more modules or components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a module or component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

As used herein the terms desktop PC local computer and the like refer to computers on which systems and methods according to the invention operate. In the illustrated embodiments these are personal computers such as portable computers and desktop computers however in other embodiments they may be other types of computing devices e.g. workstations mainframes personal digital assistants or PDAs music or MP3 players and the like .

Referring to the local computer search system includes a web browser a mini web server a web document generator and a search module . Also as shown in the local computer search system may further include an index module an index database and a resource component .

The web browser designates software which enables a user to access the Internet via a computer and view various types of information which are received from a web server. As an example the web browser may include Microsoft Corporation s Internet Explorer Netscape Corporation s Communicator or Mozilla s Firefox .

The web browser provides an input interface for receiving a search command from the user and displays a search result to the user in a format of a web document.

In this instance the input interface may correspond to a general input interface for web searching. Specifically the web browser may be set so that the user inputs a keyword in an identical form as the general input interface for web searching and performs local computer searching with respect to only search targets.

When the user requests a search for data in the local computer the web browser may set a destination address of a search command as a loopback address or the local computer where the web browser is installed.

Also the search result in the format of the web document may be a HyperText Markup Language HTML document. In this case the search result in the format of the web document may be added with a resource such as an image or a phrase which is required for a local computer search result. The web browser reads and displays the search result in the format of the HTML document on a screen.

The mini web server designates a type of web server which is installed in the local computer. The mini web server communicates with the web browser according to the HTTP protocol receives the search command from the user and transmits the search result in the format of the web document to the web browser .

In this case the mini web server may be set to identify a sending address of the received search command and provide a service only when the sending address is the loopback address or is identical to the address of the local computer where the mini web server is installed.

The mini web server may be accessible only in the local computer where the mini web server is installed via a loopback interface and the local computer s own address and may be inaccessible to an external computer via the Internet.

The web document generator receives the search result from the mini web server converts the local computer search result which is generated in the search module into the format of the web document and thereby generates the search result in the format of the web document.

In this instance as described above the web document may be the HTML document. Specifically the web document generator may convert the local computer search result which is generated in the search module into the format of HTML and thereby generate the search result in the format of HTML. Also the web document generator may generate the web document such as the HTML document by adding the resource such as the image or the phrase which is required for the local computer search result.

Depending upon embodiments the web document generator may receive the resource from the resource component . Here the resource is required to convert the local computer search result into the format of the web document.

The resource component may provide the resource which is required to generate the search result in the format of the web document or another web document in addition to the search result. In this case the web document in addition to the search result may be a web document which indicates an index state of the local computer or a guide web document about the local computer searching.

Also the resource component may store any type of resource which is required to generate the web document such as a character string for each language or each font.

The search module receives the search command from the web document generator retrieves information in the local computer by using a query which is included in the search command and generates the local computer search result.

Depending upon embodiments the search module may not receive the search command from the web document generator but receive the search command directly from the mini web server .

In this case when the search command is received the search module may search the index database by using the query included in the search command and thereby generate the local computer search result.

As described with when including the mini web server to thereby enable the web browser and the mini web server to communicate with each other according to a client server protocol such as the HTTP protocol it is possible to construct the local computer search system which can stably operate the same as in operations of an existing web search system. Also the local computer search system operates based on the web server. Accordingly even when the user utilizes at least two computers search results which are collected in the mini web server of each computer can be easily gathered according to the HTTP protocol. Accordingly the local computer searching may be effectively performed.

Referring to the index module includes an idle time monitoring component a file monitoring component a file scanning component a file filtering component an indexer and a controller .

Here the idle time designates a time when a utilization rate or a share rate of the local computer by the user or other applications is less than a predetermined level. Specifically the idle time designates a time when the local computer is not significantly utilized for another operation and may be utilized for an indexing operation for the local computer searching.

Depending upon embodiments whether the time corresponds to the idle time may be determined by considering a utilization rate of a central processing unit CPU a utilization rate of a memory whether an input device operates and a utilization rate of a drive. Specifically the time may be determined as the idle time only when the utilization rates of the CPU and the memory are within a set percentage the user s input is not received via an input device such as a keyboard or a mouse and data input output via the hard disk or the network is less than a predetermined level.

Depending upon embodiments the local computer search system may be set to start the indexing operation with respect to the local computer only when the idle time continues for a predetermined period of time. As an example the local computer search system may be set to operate the indexing operation with respect to the local computer only when the determined idle time continues for more than 15 seconds.

The file monitoring component monitors any changes made to an index target file in the local computer.

In this instance the change or event which occurs in the index target file may occur when the index target file is generated or changed. Here the index target file may include a document file an audio file a video file a picture file a messenger dialogue content file an email and the like stored in the local computer. As an example when a Hangul Korean word document with an hwp or doc extension is modified and again stored the change may be determined to be made and be monitored by the file monitoring component .

Also when information about a web site accessed by the user is updated the changes may be made. As an example when the user accesses an additional website the user has never before accessed via the Internet a URL of the website a site title an HTML source and a thumbnail image of a browser snapshot may be additionally stored in the local computer.

The file scanning component retrieves index target files from files which are stored in the local computer. In this instance the index target files may include a document file an audio file a video file a picture file a messenger dialog content file an email and the like. Accordingly a portion of the index target files with a particular extension from information stored in the local computer corresponds to the index targets for the local computer searching.

The file filtering component generates index information by filtering the index target files for each extension.

As an example the file filtering component may generate the index information by extracting a file name an extension a path name capacity information a date and a portion of a document s contents in a text format with respect to a document file with an extension such as hwp or doe an email or a messenger dialog content. In this case the index information may be extracted from a starting portion of a document s contents or an end portion of the document s contents. Also the index information may be partially extracted from the starting portion of the document s contents or the end portion of the document s contents respectively. Also the index information which is extracted from the document file may include all of the document s contents.

As an example the file filtering component may generate the index information by extracting a file name an extension a path name capacity information and a date and generating a thumbnail with respect to an image file with the extension jpg gif bmp tif and the like.

As an example the file filtering component may generate the index information by extracting a file name an extension a path name capacity information a date and tag information from an audio file with the extension mp3 wav ra aac and the like.

As an example the file filtering component may generate the index information by extracting a file name an extension a path name capacity information a date and tag information from a video file with the extension avi mov mpeg dat asf nn vob m2v and the like and generating a snapshot.

Here the tag information may include medium play information such as a play time a channel an audio sampling speed and a bit rate and additional meta information such as a songwriter a year a genre and an album of a song.

The indexer extracts an index word by using the index information and constructs the index database shown in .

When the idle time continues for more than a predetermined period of time the controller controls the file scanning component the file filtering component and the indexer to index information in the local computer. As an example the controller may be controlled to index the information in the local computer when the idle time continues for more than 15 seconds.

No collected index information is stored in the index database right after a program for the local computer searching is installed in the local computer. Accordingly during each idle time of the local computer an initial indexing operation is performed with respect to collection target files in the local computer. In this case the initial indexing operation may be performed once after the program for the local computer searching is installed in the local computer. The resource for showing the initial indexing operation may be generated in the resource component shown in provided to the web browser via the mini web server and thereby displayed to the user.

Even after the initial indexing operation is terminated the controller may detect the change or event which occurs per generation modification of a file or a visit to a website and thereby perform a real time indexing operation to collect indexes about a corresponding file or website. Accordingly it is possible to effectively collect indexes of the local computer by collecting indexes of the index target files which are changed or additionally generated after the initial indexing operation is terminated.

Although it is not illustrated in the index module shown in may further include a filter manager which changes a file filter component about a particular extension of the file filtering component or registers an additional file filter of the extension where the file filter is not registered. When the additional file filter attempts to registered an unregistered extension the filter manager may provide the unregistered extension information to the file scanning component to be included in the index target file.

In this case the filter manager may allow the user of the local computer to set a file filter suitable for the user s own computer. Accordingly the user may directly generate the file filter corresponding to a particular extension or change the set file filter. Also the user may directly register an extension which is not a search target and thus not indexed to the index target file via the filter manager. Also the user may register the file filter which is used for the file. Accordingly individualized local computer searching which is suitable for the particular features of the user s local computer is enabled.

Also when the file filter about the particular extension does not complete file filtering within a predetermined period of time the filter manager omits the file filtering and checks a number of times that the particular file filter did not complete the file filtering. When the number of times is greater than a predetermined value the filter manager may delete the corresponding file filter.

When a query of the search command includes a keyword registered by the user the query processing module extends the query corresponding to the keyword.

In this instance extending the query designates replacing a particular keyword with a registered query set or a registered search condition. Here the query set may be a single keyword. Also the query set may be at least two keywords which are bound to each other via an or operator. Also the search condition may include a type of the index target file or a search target period.

As an example the user may pre register a query set such as naver hangame archlord with respect to a NHN keyword from queries which are used for retrieving infonnation in the user s computer. Also the user may pre register a query set such as Korea composite stock price index KOSPI stock price of Samsung electronics stock price of Hyundai motors stock price of NHN with respect to a stock price keyword. In this case designates an or operator. Also when the user inputs a search command including the keyword NHN to search the user s computer the query processing module may substitute the search query set naver hangame archlord with the NHN keyword from the queries included in the search command. Also when the user inputs the search command including the stock price keyword the query processing module may substitute the search query set Korea composite stock price index KOSPI stock price of Samsung electronics stock price of Hyundai motors stock price of NHN with the stock price keyword from the queries included in the search command.

As an example the user may pre register extensions jpg and gif as search conditions with respect to a photo keyword from the queries which are used for retrieving infonnation in the user s computer. In this case when the user inputs the search command including a leehyori photo keyword to search the user s computer the query processing module may perform searching by substituting the search conditions the extensions jpg and gif with the photo keyword from the queries included in the search command and using a leehyori keyword with respect to files with the extension jpg or gif .

As an example the user may register from Jun. 27 2005 to Jul. 4 2005 as a search condition with respect to a 2005 year vacation keyword from queries which are used for searching the user s computer. In this case when the user inputs a search command including a 2005 year vacation in Daechoen keyword to search the user s computer the query processing module may perform searching by substituting the search condition for files which were generated or changed from Jun. 27 2005 to Jul. 4 2005 with the 2005 year vacation keyword from the queries which are included in the search command and using a keyword Daecheon for the files corresponding to the period.

Referring to the local computer search system monitors an idle time of the local computer for an initial indexing operation .

When the idle time continues for a predetermined period of time as a result of the monitor a controller starts the initial indexing operation of the local computer.

When the initial indexing operation is started the local computer search system scans files which are stored in the local computer . As described above scanning the file designates retrieving an index target file.

When the index target file is retrieved by scanning the files the local computer search system filters the retrieved index target file .

When the index information is generated by filtering the file the local computer search system extracts an index word by using the index information and constructs an index database .

After or while performing the initial indexing operation the index target file may be generated modified. Also the user may visit a particular website via the Internet . In this instance a controller may perform a real time indexing operation by detecting an change or event which occurs when the index target index is generated modified or when the user visits the particular website.

Specifically when the index target file is generated modified or when the user visits the particular website a predetermined change or event occurs. In this case the local computer search system may detect the change or event and perform file filtering with respect to a URL of the visited website or the generated modified file a site title an HTML source and a thumbnail image of a browser snapshot and the like . Also the local computer search system may extract the index word and construct the index database .

Depending upon embodiments the local computer search system may not index a website history by detecting the change or event occurring when the user visits the website. When the user visits the website the local computer search system may store only the URL of the website the site title the HTML source and the thumbnail image of the browser snap shot and access the stored data and perform the indexing operation at certain time intervals.

Referring to the local computer search system transmits receives a user s search command and search result in a format of a web document between a web browser and a mini web server by using the HTTP protocol .

A communication method between the web browser and the mini web server is enabled using the mini web server that is the same communication method as in the conventional web searching. Accordingly it is possible to construct the local computer search system which is stable and compatible with the conventional web search system.

When the user s search command is transmitted via the web browser and the mini web server the local computer search system searches an index database using a query included in the search command and generates a local computer search result .

When the local computer search result is generated the local computer search system adds a necessary resource such as an image or a phrase and generates a web document such as an HTML document to be provided to the user .

A controller shown in is for convenience of description about an operation of the local computer search system. The controller in is different from any element of the local computer search system shown in or .

Referring to in operation the search controller controlling system monitors a top level window which is executing on a top level among applications in execution. Here the top level window designates a window which is activated on the top level in an idle screen of the local computer. The search controller controlling system monitors the top level window via a process of periodically polling the top level window.

In operation the search controller controlling system determines whether the monitored top level window corresponds to a File Open dialog box. The search controller controlling system may determine whether the monitored top level window corresponds to the File Open dialog box by determining whether a class name of the top level window or a child window in a class is matched with a predetermined string. When the top level window is a parent window the search controller controlling system checks the class name of the top level window. Also when the top level window is the child window the search controller controlling system checks a window caption. The search controller controlling system may determine whether the top level window corresponds to the File Open dialog box as a result of check for the top level window.

When the top level window is determined as the File Open dialog box in operation the search controller controlling system attaches the search controller to the File Open dialog box. The search controller may include a receiving module for receiving a query from a user a search module for retrieving a file corresponding to the query and an output module for outputting a file search result list including the retrieved file.

Also the search controller controlling system may verify a size of the File Open dialog box set the size of the search controller corresponding to the verified size of the File Open dialog box and attach the search controller according to the set size of the search controller to the File Open dialog box. As shown in the search controller controlling system may attach search controllers and and and to a predetermined location of File Open dialog boxes and respectively. As an example when the File Open dialog boxes and are positioned in a top portion of the window screen the search controllers and and and may be attached to a bottom portion of the File Open dialog boxes and respectively.

The search controller controlling system stores a handle of an edit control of the top level window or the child window until the File Open dialog box closes and detects a movement of the File Open dialog box or a change in the size of the top level window via the handle of the edit control. Also the search controller controlling system moves the search controller or adjusts the size of the search controller to correspond to the detected movement of the File Open dialog box or the change in the size of the top level window.

In operation the search controller controlling system retrieves a file corresponding to a query which is inputted from a user via the search controller and outputs a file search result list via the search controller. Here the file search result list includes the retrieved file.

In operation the search controller controlling system receives a selection on a particular file which is included in the file search result list from the user.

In operation the search controller controlling system transmits path information associated with the particular file to the File Open dialog box. Also the search controller controlling system may transmit a character string corresponding to path infonnation associated with the particular file to an edit box which is an internal controller of the File Open dialog box.

Also the search controller controlling system may reflect path information associated with the transmitted particular file in the File Open dialog box. In this case the search controller controlling system may display the transmitted character string in the internal controller of the File Open dialog box and receive an input on a keyboard change or event with respect to the displayed character string from the user. Here the keyboard change or event may designate an event according to an input of an Alt O key or an enter key.

The search controller controlling system verifies a class name of the top level window for the common file dialog window. In this instance since the class name of the verified window is the search controller controlling system may determine that the top level window corresponds to the File Open dialog box. In the case of the common file dialog file the search controller controlling system may include the class name of the top level window or a title name of the parent window in comdlg32.dll in a form of a resource. Also the search controller controlling system may check a caption corresponding to a child window of the top level window and for example when the checked caption includes a button control such as open may determine that the top level window corresponds to the File Open dialog box.

Referring to a File Open dialog box includes a child window which is in a predetermined format such as a find location a combo box a toolbar a SHELLDLL Defview a file name a file format an open button a cancel button and the like. When the top level window is the File Open dialog window the search controller controlling system may attach the search controllers and to a predetermined location of the File Open dialog box . When attaching the search controllers and to the File Open dialog box the search controller controlling system may verify a size of the File Open dialog box set the size of the search controllers and to correspond to the verified size of the File Open dialog box and attach the search controllers and according to the set size of the search controller to the File Open Dialog box . Also when the location or the size of the File Open dialog box is changed the search controller controlling system verifies the location or the size of the changed File Open dialog box . Also the search controller controlling system may change the location or the size of the search controllers and to correspond to the location or the size of the changed File Open dialog box .

Each of the search controllers and may include the receiving module for receiving the query from the user and the output module for outputting the file search result list. Accordingly the search controllers and may retrieve a file corresponding to the query inputted via the receiving module and output the file search result list which includes the retrieved file via the output module .

Referring to the MS Office file dialog window includes a top level window command bar and a list view and the like.

When the MS Office file dialog window is the top level window the search controller controlling system may verify a class name of the top level window . When the verified class name is for example bosa sdm Microsoft Office Word 11.0 the search controller controlling system may determine the top level window as the File Open dialog box. Specifically since the MS Office file dialog window has a unique class name the search controller controlling system may verify that the top level window corresponds to the File Open dialog box only with the class name of the top level window .

Also the search controller controlling system may determine that the top level window corresponds to the File Open dialog box by checking the command bar and the list view an edit control or the like as the child window for the top level window .

Referring to a File Open dialog box is an MS Office File Open dialog box and includes a child window such as command bars and a list view an edit control and the like. When a top level window activated on a top level is the File Open dialog box the search controller controlling system may attach the search controllers and to a predetermined location of the File Open dialog box . When a top level window activated on a top level is the File Open dialog window the search controller controlling system may attach the search controllers and to a predetermined location of the File Open dialog box . When attaching the search controllers and to the File Open dialog box the search controller controlling system may verify a size of the File Open dialog box set the size of the search controllers and to correspond to the verified size of the File Open dialog box and attach the search controllers and according to the set size of the search controller to the File Open Dialog box . Also when the location or the size of the File Open dialog box is changed the search controller controlling system verifies the location or the size of the changed File Open dialog box . Also the search controller controlling system may change the location or the size of the search controllers and to correspond to the location or the size of the changed File Open dialog box .

Each of the search controllers and may include the receiving module for receiving the query from the user and the output module for outputting the file search result list. Accordingly the search controllers and may retrieve a file corresponding to the query inputted via the receiving module and output the file search result list which includes the retrieved file via the output module .

Referring to a search controller controlling system includes a monitoring module a determination module an attachment module a search result output module a selection module and a transmission module .

The monitoring module monitors a top level window which is activated on a top level among executing applications. The monitoring module may include a process of periodically polling the top level window and monitoring the top level window via the process. The determination module determines whether the monitored top level window corresponds to a File Open dialog box. The determination module may determine whether the monitored top level window corresponds to the File Open dialog box by determining whether a class name of the top level window or a child window in a class is matched with a predetermined string.

When the determination module determines the top level window as the File Open dialog box the attachment module attaches the search controller to the File Open dialog box. Specifically when the File Open dialog box is detected from a timer thread by using a search engine Application Programming Interface API of a desktop search controller the attachment module may attach the search controller to a predetermined location of the File Open dialog box. Here the search controller includes a search input window a button and an output window outputting a result list. The attachment module may verify a detection result of the File Open dialog box every period for example 300 ms which is set by the timer thread via search engine API lapping of the desktop search controller. When the File Open dialog box is detected the attachment file may attach the search controller to the predetermined location of the File Open dialog box.

The attachment module may verify a size of the File Open dialog box adjust the size of the search controller according to the verified size of the File Open dialog box and attach the search controller of the adjusted size to a predetermined location of the File Open dialog box. Specifically the attachment module may verify a location of the File Open dialog box and change the location of the search controller to correspond to the changed location of the File Open dialog box.

The search result output module retrieves a file corresponding to a query which is inputted from a user via the search controller and outputs a file search result list via the search controller. Here the file search result list includes the retrieved file.

The selection module receives a selection on a particular file which is included in the file search result list from the user. When the user checks the outputted file search result list and the user s desired particular file is included in the file search result list the user may select the particular file via the selection module .

The transmission module transmits path information associated with the particular file to the File Open dialog box. Here the File Open dialog box may output a character string about the path information associated with the transmitted particular file.

The search controller controlling method according to the above described embodiment of the present invention may be recorded in computer readable media including program instructions to implement various operations embodied by a computer. The media may also include alone or in combination with the program instructions data files data structures and the like. Examples of computer readable media include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks and DVD magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory and the like. The media may also be a transmission medium such as optical or metallic lines wave guides etc. including a carrier wave transmitting signals specifying the program instructions data structures etc. Examples of program instructions include both machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter. The described hardware devices may be configured to act as one or more software modules in order to perform the operations of the above described embodiments of the present invention.

According to the present invention there is provided a method and system for controlling a search controller which enables a user to more quickly retrieve the user s desired file via a search controller by automatically attaching the search controller when a File Open dialog box is activated in a local computer.

Also according to the present invention there is provided method and system for controlling a search controller which enables a user to more quickly retrieve a file via a search controller attached to a File Open dialog box while not executing another file search program when the user performs a File Open process in a local computer.

Although a few embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described the present invention is not limited to the described embodiments. Instead it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

Thus there has been shown and described several embodiments of a novel invention. As is evident from the foregoing description certain aspects of the present invention are not limited by the particular details of the examples illustrated herein and it is therefore contemplated that other modifications and applications or equivalents thereof will occur to those skilled in the art. The terms having and including and similar terms as used in the foregoing specification are used in the sense of optional or may include and not as required . Many changes modifications variations and other uses and applications of the present construction will however become apparent to those skilled in the art after considering the specification and the accompanying drawings. All such changes modifications variations and other uses and applications which do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention are deemed to be covered by the invention which is limited only by the claims which follow.

