---

title: Peer-to-peer group management framework and methodology
abstract: A group management framework and methodology for managing symmetric groups using peer-to-peer network communications. Group management is distributed throughout the group members of the peer-to-peer network, and group information is mirrored in each of the members of the group. The framework facilitates management of group member lists, provides group communication capabilities for external applications, and security for the group communication without the need for intermediary servers to provide services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07774010&OS=07774010&RS=07774010
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 07774010
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20060628
---
This application claims the benefit of Provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60 696 914 filed on Jul. 6 2005 to which priority is claimed pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e and which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates in general to communicating information among communication devices and more particularly to a system apparatus and method for managing symmetric groups through peer to peer communication and mirroring of group data.

Community or group services are becoming increasingly popular on the Internet. Group communications generally refers to communications between an arranged or otherwise affiliated group of users. Blogs content sharing sites and message posting sites represent different types of group communications. Group communications allow users to form loosely connected communities around a subject area hobby club social group etc.

Network users whether they use a mobile device or a PC to communicate do not have an easy way to exchange information inside a group of people. Group communication is usually limited to sending group e mail or initiating a group chat if everyone is online. It can be quite difficult to share files with a defined group of people or to send application information such as calendar entries for the users to see. Web based community services may offer features for the group members to use but the service provider controls the services and the users cannot add new custom features. They also have their own username and password schemes that each member has to apply for.

Some forms of electronic communication are inefficient or cumbersome when used for group communication. For example e mail is the most popular way of communicating within a group today. People can send pictures or other content to their group of friends via e mail as well as calendar entries and other files. However e mail is lacking in several areas for purposes of group communication. For example it is not suitable for sending large amounts of data and each message has to be handled manually. E mail can be forged and is therefore insecure by nature. There is also a risk associated with opening e mail attachments.

Further in current systems group services rely on server based implementations where the service provider has all group members information in its possession. Users can join such groups as long as they agree with the service terms of the service provider or third party who administers the group services. In any case the users have to agree with the terms. Thus in such prior art systems these administered services are restricted in some way and users must agree with the service providers terms and conditions. Further the service provider may in fact own rights to the members data and may choose to stop the service at any time whereby the group information is lost. The group has little or no means of controlling the lifetime of the service and has to rely on and trust the service provider with their information. Additionally hosting group services via a particular device of the group such as a mobile phone would lead to various problems. For example due to the nature of mobile phones they may not be available from time to time the phone may be out of a coverage area may have expended its battery life etc. In such situations the service would be unavailable to the entire group.

Accordingly there is a need in the communications industry for a better manner of managing of group communications. The present invention fulfills these and other needs and offers other advantages over the prior art approaches.

To overcome limitations in the prior art described above and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification the present invention discloses a system apparatus and method for managing symmetric groups using peer to peer communications.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention a method is provided for facilitating server less management of group communications among a plurality of members of a group. At least one group management function is initiated by an initiating member of the group. Via peer to peer communication at least one group management message associated with the group management function is transmitted from the initiating member to one or more other members and or prospective members of the group.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method is provided for facilitating management of group communications among a plurality of members of a group. An invitation is transmitted via a peer to peer connection from a communication device of an inviting member of the group to a communication device of a prospective member of the group. Upon acceptance of the invitation by the prospective member a member list is updated at the communication device of the inviting member to include the prospective member as a new member of the group. Group data including the member list is transmitted via peer to peer connections from the inviting member to the new member.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a method is provided for facilitating management of group communications among a plurality of members of a group. Transmission of application data is initiated from a communication device of a first member of the group. Addresses of each of the other members of the group are identified based on a member list locally stored at each of the communication devices of the members of the group. The application data is transmitted via peer to peer connections from the first member to the other members of the group.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a group management module associated with a communication device is provided for facilitating management of peer to peer communications among members of a group. The group management module includes a local database to store group data including a member list for each of the groups to which the communication device is affiliated. A member management module is coupled to the local database to manage storage and retrieval of the group data and an application programming interface API is configured to interface at least application content and a user interface UI with the member management module. A communication module is coupled to the member management module to effect peer to peer communications between the communication device and the communication devices of other members of the group.

These and various other advantages and features of novelty which characterize the invention are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the invention its advantages and the objects obtained by its use reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof and to accompanying descriptive matter in which there are illustrated and described representative examples of systems apparatuses and methods in accordance with the invention.

In the following description of various exemplary embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized as structural and operational changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Generally the present invention provides among other things a peer to peer framework for managing symmetric groups. For example group management messages may be transmitted directly to group members using peer to peer network connections. The framework can be used to for example manage group member lists provide group communication capabilities for external applications provide security for group communication and other group management functions without the need for server control. The present invention further allows groups to evolve without constraints of service providers and enable peer to peer storage of group data on group member devices. Group information is stored by each involved member providing fault tolerance without the need for external administration thereby providing a robust peer to peer communication solution.

As indicated above one aspect of the invention involves a peer to peer framework and methodology for managing group communications. A group management framework in accordance with the present invention may be implemented in a peer to peer fashion i.e. a server less framework. In server based communications communication device users e.g. peers in a peer to peer network configuration are very limited in their ability to modify add or otherwise manage group features as the service provider controls such features and also typically requires users to be associated with independent usernames passwords etc. Server based communications such as e mail are also not suitable for large amounts of data and exhibit other shortfalls such as the need to manually handle each message e mail forgery risk of viruses when opening attachments and the like. It is also noted that the messages themselves may be filtered or otherwise monitored in server based communications. For these and other reasons the peer to peer group management framework and methodology of the present invention is particularly advantageous and provides a new paradigm in electronic group communications.

As will be described in greater detail below a plurality of the devices send receive group management messages which provide the requisite information to establish and manage communications and content sharing among members of the group. For example new group member invitations white listing of known members and or black listing of non members application functions and the like can be handled through group management messages between the members. In this manner many advantages over the prior art can be realized including but not limited to instant notification of new data e.g. push communication the possibility to integrate with external applications with group communication automatic dispatching handling of different types of data white listing which provides security etc. This therefore provides among other things server less group definition and dynamic updating of such definition as members join or leave the group.

A more particular representative embodiment of the group management framework is illustrated in . In this embodiment the peer device includes a UI which may include images such as a Graphical User Interface GUI or other interface to present information to users accept user commands and or other UI functions. In the illustrated embodiment user interface screens illustrate representative screens for peer devices used to invite a member to a group. For example for a baseball club a member e.g. Jeff may invite a new member Mark . The new member may be invited to join the club as shown at screen . If the new member accepts the new member Mark is accepted as a new member as shown at screen .

To perform such a invitation or other group management function a group management framework architecture is provided which is labeled the Clubster engine in the illustrated embodiment. In the illustrated embodiment the Clubster engine includes an engine Application Programming Interface API a club database and associated member management logic for managing information such as the club list and member list and a communication engine . The communication engine of the illustrated embodiment uses the Session Initiation Protocol SIP to form connections between the group members and to transmit data as needed. The SIP communication engine may sit on top of a SIP stack such as a Symbian SIP stack in the case of a Symbian operating system. The SIP or other similar communication engine facilitates sending of messages such as for example SendPacket datapacket user ReceivePacket datapacket user and or other similar messages.

The engine API interfaces with the user interface and applications such as depicted by the content plug in module . The API facilitates communication of messages such as for example a prospective member invitation e.g. InviteUser user group member lists e.g. ListMembers group obtaining user information e.g. GetUserInfo user packet distribution e.g. SendPacket data group etc. In the illustrated embodiment applications are implemented as plug in components such as the calendar plug in discussion forum plug in file sender plug in chat plug in and the like.

One use example involves inviting members to the group also referred to as club . In such an example when a person is invited to a group he she gets the invitation directly from one of the group members. The invitation acceptance is transmitted back to the inviting member who will then handle mirroring the group data and announcing the new member to other members. The illustrated embodiment uses SIP to form connections between the group members and to transmit data as needed. The Clubster engine component includes the group management framework implementation of the present invention and allows users to invite other users to clubs using the UI component and also use other applications to exchange information through the framework.

Other group management features such as leaving groups can be implemented in a similar manner e.g. a person wishing to leave a club uses his her group management application to resign from the group which sends a resignation message to each member of the group. The members framework instances then remove the resigning person from their member lists automatically.

The links to external applications are in one embodiment designed to be implemented as plug in components. For example the calendar plug in can be used to send calendar entries to club members. Thus external applications can make use of the established clubs by using a plug in s to communicate through the Clubster engine . In one embodiment when a plug in sends data to a club the data is tagged with an identification of that plug in. Using that tag the receiving instance of the framework can dispatch the data to the correct plug in and the plug in can deliver it to the application as will be described in greater detail below.

Representative use examples will now be described in connection with . It should be recognized that the examples of are provided for purposes of facilitating an understanding of representative functions associated with the group management framework of the present invention and the invention is clearly not limited to the particular examples set forth herein.

Referring first to a representative use case for inviting a new user to a group is illustrated. In the illustrated embodiment the peer to peer framework provides for the management of symmetric groups where a symmetric group refers to a group where the group member list is shared within the group. When the symmetric group management functionality is separated from the actual group services as in the illustrated embodiment the management functions are specified in a generic module that can be applied to all kinds of groups. Using that module it is possible to create new groups invite people to join them leave groups force a specified member s to leave the group and other group management actions. represents a symmetric group management function for inviting a user to a group.

As shown in a plurality of devices associated with users may form a group. For example the devices and represent a group capable of performing peer to peer communications. Any of the devices represent any communication device capable of performing peer to peer connections including a mobile phone A PDA B computer C or other wireline or wireless device D capable of participating in peer to peer network communications. When a new person is invited to a symmetric group the invitation is sent from a group member and if the invitee accepts group information is transferred to the invitee and other group members are notified about the inclusion of the new member in the group. More particularly one of the group members sends an invite A via his her communication device to the communication device of the user to be invited to the group. The device user may respond with an acceptance of the invitation B . The inviting user then mirrors the club information C i.e. the club information is propagated to the new member. This club information may include various information regarding the club including the member list. Further the new member is announced D to other members of the group. The inviting device of the illustrated embodiment therefore accepts the responsibility of providing the club data to the invitee device and also the responsibility of notifying existing members. Because the new member now has the club data it too can invite new members in an analogous fashion.

In the example of the club organizer Alice creates a new club. She identifies a user for invitation to the new club and sends an invite e.g. SIP INVITE message to invited user Bob via the SIP proxy . A Transmission Control Protocol TCP connection is established and a request success notification e.g. 200 OK is returned to Alice . An acknowledgement e.g. ACK is returned to Bob and an invitation packet is forwarded from Alice to Bob . Bob sends an invitation acceptance packet . In response Alice converts Bob to a full member sends the full club information including the member list to Bob and sends a new member announcement of Bob to each member which currently includes only Bob . Bob is now a member of Alice s group and is also able to invite members to the group using the mirrored information club information provided by Alice.

Alice then invites a second user Cecil to the group. This is initiated by forming a SIP connection and TCP pipe and an invitation packet to Cecil. Cecil sends an invitation acceptance packet if membership is accepted by Cecil and in response Alice sends the full club information to Cecil . Alice then sends a new member announcement of Cecil to each member of the group which now includes both Bob and Cecil . Open SIP connections from Alice are then terminated when Alice exits the application.

It is noted that as each connection is made the group management framework checks if the connecting party is a member of the group. If not then only invitation messages are accepted. This is an example of white listing to restrict access to group information.

More particularly illustrates three existing members of the group namely devices and . By way of the network which is an Internet Protocol IP network in the illustrated embodiment a new member can be invited to the group . On the other hand if the user of device attempts to use a group communication feature e.g. the image sharing feature of the previous example the user is restricted from using the feature because the user of device is not associated with the member list. The group management framework of for example device can determine whether the device is associated with the member list by comparing information associated with the device with the information of the member list. If the device is not found on the member list no access is allowed. The member list therefore acts as a white list of addresses where connections are allowed.

In the example of device includes a calendar application . The user of device may send calendar data to group A. The group management framework determines the group members for group A and sends the information to the appropriate addresses e.g. addresses X Y associated with user X and user Y via the network access module . Each user device includes a network access module and the received group data is provided to the respective group management framework module which can then be provided to the appropriate application .

In this case the calendar application of the sending device can access the symmetric group using the group management framework. It can directly instruct the framework to send its data e.g. a calendar entry to the members of a given group. The calendar application does not need to be concerned about the manner in which the data will actually be sent the framework handles that. The data is tagged in a manner to be associated with the calendar application as depicted by the calendar tag labeled TAG. After the calendar data has been sent to members of the group the recipient devices will decode the data and do something useful with it. Using the tag associated with the data the receiving group management framework instance e.g. group management framework instance can determine which application sent the data. Using this tag the receiving group management framework instance notifies the local calendar application that new data has been received. The calendar application of the receiving devices then processes the data e.g. adding the calendar entry to the local calendar.

It should be noted that a similar process may be used for other applications and the calendar application is described for purposes of facilitating an understanding of this aspect of the invention. Other applications will be associated with respective tags thereby allowing the group management framework of the recipient devices to determine the appropriate local application to process the data.

In the illustrated embodiment the group management functionality of device A shown as the clubster engine initializes the calendar plug in associated with the calendar . The user starts the calendar application and chooses to share the associated calendar or some portion thereof . The calendar application utilizes the services of the clubster engine via the plug in to get the club names . The user selects the club and sends the club information to the clubster engine via the plug in where the club information is tagged with an identification of that calendar plug in . The clubster engine identifies the members and sends the club information to each member . One such member is the member associated with device B which also includes a clubster engine calendar application and associated plug in . The clubster engine initializes the calendar plug in and the plug in gets the club names . From the information in the inbound connection and the local group database the clubster engine can determine whether the sender device A is a member of the group. If so the tag associated with the club data is identified by the receiving instance of the framework i.e. the clubster engine of device B and directed to the corresponding plug in . Upon receipt a dialog such as calendar entries received may be displayed on device B . By way of the plug in the relevant information is stored in the calendar of the calendar application .

As described above club group information is mirrored to each of the group members when information is disseminated throughout the group. In prior art systems group services rely on server based implementations where the service provider has all group members information in its possession. Users can join such groups as long as they agree with the service terms of the service provider or third party who administers the group services. In any case the users have to agree with the terms. Thus in such prior art systems these administered services are restricted in some way and users must agree with the service providers terms and conditions. Further the service provider may in fact own rights to the members data and may choose to stop the service at any time whereby the group information is lost. The group has little or no means of controlling the lifetime of the service and has to rely on and trust the service provider with their information. Additionally hosting group services via a particular device of the group such as a mobile phone would lead to various problems. For example due to the nature of mobile phones they may not be available from time to time the phone may be out of a coverage area may have expended its battery life etc. In such situations the service would be unavailable to the entire group.

These and other problems are addressed by mirroring the group information in each group members device. Disseminating the group information and storing the information on each peer device in this fashion facilitates group evolution without constraints of service providers. Changes in the group are propagated or mirrored to each member directly so that each user has a local store of the group information. Because the data is stored in multiple devices a loss of one device is not significant. This aspect of the present invention provides for fault tolerance and even allows users to change from one device to another and receive all existing group information. And because there is no external administration confidential or otherwise sensitive information can be stored in the group as well.

As previously indicated a user can start a group with himself herself as an only member. Subsequently the user can invite other users to join the group. The group information is stored to each group members device and that information is available as long as there is at least one user in the group. Users can leave the group at will and the user information for that user is removed from the group information.

Groups formed in this manner can be used for any group communication services including but not limited to instant messaging chat file transfer and other content distribution threaded conversation and the like. Depending on the service information such as shared files or conversations can be viewed on each member s device without any network communication. Since the group storage is mirrored on each device the members can access the information quickly and therefore reading or otherwise accessing the information is very fast.

According to an embodiment of the invention the group service neither requires nor utilizes centralized administration or storage. Thus in accordance with the invention all information that is owned by the group is distributed and synchronized to each member device. Storing information in a virtual shared storage space makes it available to group members by actually mirroring it to each member s device. An example of storing a file in accordance with the group management framework is shown in . The user creates or otherwise obtains content a file s or other information to be shared with the group where this information is a file in the illustrated embodiment. A copy of the file is locally stored at the user s device . The file is then transmitted or mirrored to each member of the group as depicted by the file transfer to devices . The recipient group devices receive and locally store the file and provide the local user access to the file.

Using non administrated group services is particularly beneficial where group members want to be independent from service providers. There is no need for extra servers for group formation purposes and the existence of the group is not limited to external constraints. The mirroring of group data ensures that the data exists as long as there is at least one user in the group. In situations where a large number of members are in the group synchronization issues of information among members may be alleviated by for example allowing the originating member to edit data in the group storage or remove data from the group storage. The originating member may be the originating member of the group and or the originating member of the particular information being disseminated.

Hardware firmware software or a combination thereof may be used to perform the functions and operations in accordance with the invention. The mobile devices in accordance with the invention include communication devices such as for example mobile phones PDAs and other wireless communicators as well as landline computing systems and communicators. A representative example of a mobile device in which the present invention may be implemented is illustrated in . The mobile device utilizes computing systems to control and manage the conventional device activity as well as the functionality provided by the present invention. The representative mobile device includes a computing system capable of carrying out operations in accordance with the invention. For example the representative mobile device includes a processing control unit such as a microprocessor reduced instruction set computer RISC or other central processing module. The processing unit need not be a single device and may include one or more processors. For example the processing unit may include a master processor and associated slave processors coupled to communicate with the master processor.

The processing unit controls the basic functions of the mobile device as dictated by programs available in the program storage memory . The storage memory may include an operating system and various program and data modules associated with the present invention. In one embodiment of the invention the programs are stored in non volatile electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash ROM etc. so that the programs are not lost upon power down of the mobile device. The storage may also include one or more of other types of read only memory ROM and programmable and or erasable ROM random access memory RAM subscriber interface module SIM wireless interface module WIM smart card or other fixed or removable memory device. The relevant software for carrying out mobile device operations in accordance with the present invention may also be transmitted to the mobile device via data signals such as being downloaded electronically via one or more networks such as the Internet and an intermediate wireless network s .

For performing other standard mobile device functions the processor is also coupled to user interface UI associated with the mobile device . The UI may include for example a display such as a liquid crystal display a keypad speaker and microphone . These and other UI components are coupled to the processor as is known in the art. The keypad may include alpha numeric keys for performing a variety of functions including dialing numbers navigating through graphical UI screens etc. Other UI mechanisms may be employed such as voice commands switches touch pad screen graphical user interface using a pointing device trackball joystick or any other user interface mechanism.

The wireless device may also include conventional circuitry for performing wireless transmissions over the mobile network. The DSP may be employed to perform a variety of functions including analog to digital A D conversion digital to analog D A conversion speech coding decoding encryption decryption error detection and correction bit stream translation filtering etc. The transceiver generally coupled to an antenna transmits the outgoing radio signals and receives the incoming radio signals associated with the mobile device .

In the illustrated embodiment the storage memory stores the various client programs or user agents involved in facilitating the group management framework functions in accordance with the present invention. For example the storage may include various program modules such as an application s and associated application plug in s . The storage memory also includes the group management framework which includes for example the framework engine API member management module and associated database of group data and a communication engine . Standard data or programs may also be included in the storage memory such as the operating system .

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather determined by the claims appended hereto.

