---

title: Electrokinetic concentration device and methods of use thereof
abstract: The present invention provides a device and methods of use thereof in concentrating a species of interest and/or controlling liquid flow in a device. The methods, inter-alia, make use of a device comprising microchannels, which are linked to nanochannels, whereby induction of an electric field in the nanochannel results in ion depletion in the linkage region between the microchannel and nanochannel, and a space charge layer is formed within the microchannel, which provides an energy barrier for said species of interest which enables its concentration in a region in the microchannel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07651600&OS=07651600&RS=07651600
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 07651600
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060125
---
This invention claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 646 513 which was filed Jan. 25 2005 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety.

This invention was made in whole or in part with government support under grant number CTS 0347348 awarded by the National Science Foundation and grant number F19628 00 C 0002 awarded by the United States Air Force. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention provides devices and methods of use thereof in concentrating a charged species of interest in solution. This invention provides a concentration device which is based on electrokinetic trapping of a charged species of interest which can be further isolated and analyzed.

One of the major challenges of proteomics is the sheer complexity of biomolecule samples such as blood serum or cell extract. Typical blood samples could contain more than 10 000 different protein species with concentrations varying over 9 orders of magnitude. Such diversity of proteins as well as their huge concentration ranges poses a formidable challenge for sample preparation in proteomics.

Conventional protein analysis techniques based on multidimensional separation steps and mass spectrometry MS fall short because of the limited separation peak capacity up to 3000 and dynamic range of detection 10 . Microfluidic biomolecule analysis systems so called TAS hold promise for automated biomolecule processing. Various biomolecule separation and purification steps as well as chemical reaction and amplification has been miniaturized on a microchip demonstrating orders of magnitude faster sample separation and processing. In addition microfluidic integration of two different separation steps into a multidimensional separation device has been demonstrated. However most microfluidic separation and sample processing devices suffers from the critical issue of sample volume mismatch. Microfluidic devices are very efficient in handling and processing 1 pL 1 nL of sample fluids but most biomolecule samples are available or handled in a liquid volume larger than 1 L. Therefore microchip based separation techniques often analyze only a small fraction of available samples which significantly limits the overall detection sensitivity. In proteomics this problem is exacerbated by the fact that information rich signaling molecules cytokines and biomarkers e.g. are present only in trace concentrations nM pM range and there is no signal amplification technique such as polymerase chain reaction PCR for proteins and peptides.

What is needed is an efficient sample concentrator which can take typical sample volume of microliters or more and concentrate molecules into a smaller volume so that it can be separated and detected much more sensitively. Several strategies are currently available to provide sample preconcentration in liquid including field amplified sample stacking FAS isotachophoresis ITP electrokinetic trapping micellar electrokinetic sweeping chromatographic preconcentration and membrane preconcentration. Many of these techniques are originally developed for capillary electrophoresis and require special buffer arrangements and or reagents. Efficiency of chromatographic and filtration based preconcentration techniques depends on the hydrophobicity and the size of the target molecules. Electrokinetic trapping can be used for any charged biomolecule species but generally requires nanoporous charge selective membranes for the operation. Overall the demonstrated concentration factors for the existing preconcentration schemes are limited to 1000 and their application to the integrated Microsystems is difficult due to various operational constraints such as reagents and materials requirements.

In one embodiment the introduction of a liquid comprising a species of interest in said device and independent induction of said electric field in said nanochannel and in said microchannel concentrates said species of interest within said microchannel.

In another embodiment the means for inducing an electric field in the nanochannel or in said microchannel or combination thereof is a voltage supply. In one embodiment the voltage applied is between 50 mV and 500 V. In one embodiment the voltage supply applies equal voltage to the anodic and cathodic side of the microchannel or in another embodiment the voltage supply applies greater voltage to the anodic side of said microchannel as compared to the cathodic side.

In one embodiment the width of the microchannel is between 1 100 m and in another embodiment the depth of the microchannel is between 0.5 50 m. In another embodiment the width of the nanochannel is between 1 m 50 m and in another embodiment the depth of said nanochannel is between 20 100 nanometers.

In one embodiment the surface of the microchannel has been functionalized to reduce or enhance adsorption of said species of interest to said surface. In another embodiment the surface of the nanochannel and or microchannel has been functionalized to enhance or reduce the operation efficiency of the device. In another embodiment external gate potential is applied to the substrate of the device to enhance or reduce the operation efficiency of the device. In another embodiment the device is comprised of a transparent material. In another embodiment the transparent material is pyrex silicon dioxide silicon nitride quartz or SU 8.

In another embodiment the device is coupled to a separation system or in another embodiment a detection system or in another embodiment an analysis system or in another embodiment a combination thereof. In another embodiment the device is coupled to an illumination source.

In another embodiment the device comprises multiple microchannels nanochannels or combinations thereof. In one embodiment the microchannels nanochannels or combinations thereof are arranged with a particular geometry which in one embodiment comprises perpendicular orientation of the microchannels with respect to said nanochannels.

In one embodiment the invention provides for a method of concentrating a species of interest in a liquid comprising using a device of the invention.

In one embodiment this invention provides a microfluidic pump comprising a device of this invention which in one embodiment has a liquid flow speed of between 10 m sec and 10 mm sec.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of concentrating a species of interest in a liquid the method comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the flow is electroosmotic and in another embodiment the electroosmotic flow is induced in the microchannel via induction of an electric field in the microchannel. In another embodiment the flow is pressure driven.

In one embodiment equal voltage is applied to the anodic and cathodic side of the microchannel or in another embodiment greater voltage is applied to the anodic side of the microchannel as compared to the cathodic side. In another embodiment a space charge layer is generated in the microchannel prior to applying greater voltage to the anodic side of said microchannel.

In one embodiment the liquid is a solution. In another embodiment the liquid is a suspension which in another embodiment is an organ homogenate cell extract or blood sample. In one embodiment the species of interest comprises proteins polypeptides nucleic acids viral particles or combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the method further comprises the step of subjecting the species of interest to capillary electrophoresis. In one embodiment the method further comprises the step of releasing the species of interest from the device. In another embodiment the method is utilized to detect said species of interest when said species is present in said liquid at a concentration which is below a limit of detection.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method for controlling liquid flow in a system the method comprising 

This invention provides in one embodiment a concentrating device and methods of use thereof in concentrating a species of interest.

The concentrating device which is referred to as a concentrator in another embodiment comprises at least one microchannel and at least one nanochannel. In one embodiment the concentrator is formed using the technology of microfabrication and nanofabrication for formation of the respective channels.

Microfabrication technology or microtechnology or MEMS in one embodiment applies the tools and processes of semiconductor fabrication to the formation of for example physical structures. Microfabrication technology allows one in one embodiment to precisely design features e.g. wells channels with dimensions in the range of 

In another embodiment NEMS or nanotechnology is used to construct the nanochannels of the concentrator. In one embodiment the nanochannels can be fabricated with nanoimprint lithography NWL as described in Z. N. Yu P. Deshpande W. Wu J. Wang and S. Y. Chou Appl. Phys. Lett. 77 7 927 2000 S. Y. Chou P. R. Krauss and P. J. Renstrom Appl. Phys. Lett. 67 21 3114 1995 Stephen Y. Chou Peter R. Krauss and Preston J. Renstrom Science 272 85 1996 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 772 905 hereby incorporated herein in their entirety by reference. In one embodiment the nanochannels and or microchannels can be formed by nanoimprint lithography interference lithography self assembled copolymer pattern transfer spin coating electron beam lithography focused ion beam milling photolithography reactive ion etching wet etching plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition electron beam evaporation sputter deposition and combinations thereof. Alternatively other conventional methods can be used to form the nanochannels and or microchannels.

In one embodiment the nanochannels and microchannels are formed as exemplified hereinbelow in Example 1 and as described in J. Han H. G. Craighead J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 17 2142 2147 1999 and J. Han H. G. Craighead Science 288 1026 1029 2000 hereby incorporated fully herein by reference.

In one embodiment a series of reactive ion etchings are conducted after which nanochannels are patterned with standard lithography tools. In one embodiment the etchings are conducted with a particular geometry which in another embodiment determines the interface between the. microchannels and or nanochannels. In one embodiment etchings which create the microchannels are performed parallel to the plane in which etchings for the nanochannels were created. In another embodiment additional etching such as for example and in one embodiment KOH etching was used to produce additional structures in the concentrator such as for example for creating loading holes.

In another embodiment electrical insulation of the concentrator is conducted. In one embodiment such insulation is accomplished via nitride stripping and thermal oxidation of the concentrator. In another embodiment a surface of the concentrator which in another embodiment is the bottom surface may be affixed to a substrate such as for example and in one embodiment a Pyrex wafer. In one embodiment the wafer may be affixed using anodic bonding techniques.

In one embodiment construction of the concentrator may be accomplished by methods known to one skilled in the art or adaptation of such methods such as for example those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 753 200 fully incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the fabrication may use a shaped sacrificial layer which is sandwiched between permanent floor and ceiling layers with the shape of the sacrificial layer defining a working gap. When the sacrificial layer is removed the working gap becomes a fluid channel having the desired configuration. This approach in one embodiment allows a precise definition of the height width and shape of interior working spaces or fluid channels in the structure of a fluidic device.

The sacrificial layer is formed on a substrate is shaped by a suitable lithographic process for example and is covered by a ceiling layer. Thereafter the sacrificial layer may be removed with a wet chemical etch leaving behind empty spaces between the floor and ceiling layers which form working gaps which may be used as flow channels and chambers for the concentrator. In such a device the vertical dimension or height of a working gap is determined by the thickness of the sacrificial layer film which is made with precise chemical vapor deposition CVD techniques and accordingly this dimension can be very small.

In order to provide access to the sacrificial layer contained in the structure for the etching solution which is used to remove the sacrificial layer one or more access holes may be cut through the ceiling layer with the wet etch removing the sacrificial layer through these holes. An extremely high etch selectivity may be required between the sacrificial layer and the dielectric layers in order to allow the etch to proceed in the sacrificial layer a significant distance laterally from the access holes without consuming the floor and ceiling layers which compose the finished device. One combination of materials which may be used for such a process is polysilicon and silicon nitride for the sacrificial layer and for the floor and ceiling layers respectively. Extremely high etch selectivities can be obtained with basic solutions such as in some embodiments potassium hydroxide KOH sodium hydroxide NaOH or in another embodiment tetramethyl ammonium hydroxide TMAH .

The access holes cut in the top layer may be covered in another embodiment. For this purpose a sealing layer of silicon dioxide may be deposited on top of the ceiling lay to fill in the access holes and this additional thin film layer provides a good seal against leakage or evaporation of fluids in the working gap. SiO2 CVD techniques represent other embodiments which yield a low degree of film conformality such as very low temperature oxide VLTO deposition form a reliable seal without excessive loss of device area due to clogging near the access holes. If desired the access holes may be drilled through the bottom layer instead of or in addition to the holes in the ceiling layer and later resealed by depositing a layer of silicon dioxide.

For example in some embodiments chemical vapor deposition CVD may be used to deposit the device materials including permanent wall materials which are usually a dielectric material such as silicon nitride or silicon dioxide and nonpermanent sacrificial layer materials such as amorphous silicon or polysilicon.

In one embodiment the microchannel and nanochannel are oriented perpendicularly with respect to each other. In one embodiment the term perpendicular or perpendicularly refers to an orientation of one channel being at a 90 angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of another channel 5 or in another embodiment at a 90 angle of 10 or in another embodiment at a 90 angle 20 .

In one embodiment an interface region is constructed which connects the microchannel and nanochannel of the concentrator of this invention. In one embodiment diffraction gradient lithography DGL is used to form a gradient interface between the microchannels and nanochannels of this invention. In one embodiment the gradient interface region may regulate flow through the concentrator or in another embodiment regulate the space charge layer formed in the microchannel which in another embodiment may be reflected in the strength of electric field or in another embodiment the voltage needed to generate the space charge layer in the microchannel.

In one embodiment the gradient interface area is formed of lateral spatial gradient structures for narrowing the cross section of a value from the micron to the nanometer length scale. In another embodiment the gradient interface area is formed of a vertical sloped gradient structure. In another embodiment the gradient structure can provide both a lateral and vertical gradient.

In one embodiment the concentrating device may be fabricated by diffraction gradient lithography by forming a nanochannel or nanochannels on a substrate forming a microchannel or microchannels on the substrate and forming a gradient interface area between them. The gradient interface area can be formed in one embodiment by using a blocking mask positioned above a photo mask and or photoresist during photolithography. The edge of the blocking mask provides diffraction to cast a gradient light intensity on the photoresist.

In one embodiment a concentrator may comprise a plurality of channels including a plurality of microchannels or a plurality of nanochannels or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the phrase a plurality of channels refers to more than two channels or in another embodiment more than 5 or in other embodiments more than 10 96 100 384 1 000 1 536 10 000 100 000 or 1 000 000 channels.

In one embodiment the width of the microchannel is between 1 100 m or in another embodiment between 1 and 15 m or in another embodiment between 20 and 50 m or in another embodiment between 25 and 75 m or in another embodiment between 50 and 100 m. In one embodiment the depth of the microchannel is between 0.5 50 m m or in another embodiment between 0.5 and 5 m or in another embodiment between 5 and 15 m or in another embodiment between 10 and 25 m or in another embodiment between 15 and 50 m.

In another embodiment the width of the nanochannel is between 1 m 50 m or in another embodiment between 1 and 15 m or in another embodiment between 10 and 25 m or in another embodiment between 15 and 40 m or in another embodiment between 25 and 50 m. In another embodiment the depth of said nanochannel is between 20 100 nanometers or in another embodiment between 20 and 50 nanometers or in another embodiment between 20 and 75 nanometers or in another embodiment between 30 and 75 nanometers or in another embodiment between 50 and 100 nanometers.

In one embodiment the concentrator is constructed as diagrammed in . The nanochannel which is 5 50 m wide and 40 nm deep is oriented perpendicularly to the microchannel where the microchannel is between 10 20 m wide and 1.5 m deep.

In another aspect of the invention the concentrator further comprises at least one sample reservoir in fluid communication with the microchannel or microchannels. In the embodiment depicted in the sample reservoir is proximal to the microchannel . In another embodiment the sample reservoir is capable of releasing a fluid or liquid comprising a species of interest. In one embodiment the sample reservoir is connected to the microchannel by means of a conduit which may have the dimensions of the microchannel or may comprise a gradient interface area as described.

In one embodiment the introduction of a liquid comprising a species of interest in the device and independent induction of an electric field in the nanochannel and in the microchannel concentrates the species of interest within the microchannel.

In one embodiment the concentrator makes use of flat nanofluidic filters filled with buffer solution as an ion selective membrane to generate ion depletion regions for electrokinetic trapping as exemplified hereinbelow.

In one embodiment the device collects charged molecules efficiently because of a nonlinear electroosmotic flow much stronger than normal electroosmotic flow generated in the microchannel which draws fluid into the microchannels from the sample resevoir with high flow speed and because an energy barrier for anionic molecules is generated by the induced space charge layer in the microchannel at regions of apposition to the nanochannels.

In one embodiment two separate electric fields are applied to the concentrator and controlled independently as shown in . The field in the nanofluidic channel En generates an ion depletion region and extended space charge layer that traps the anionic molecules. The tangential field in the microfluidic channel ET in the anodic side generates electroosmotic flow which draws molecules into the. trapped region from the reservoir.

In one embodiment the space charge region is further stabilized by manipulating buffer conditions in the devices of the invention for example as depicted in and as described further hereinbelow. In one embodiment the device comprises two or a series of two microchannels each connected by a nanochannel. According to this embodiment over a course of time ion depletion in the top microchannel leads to ion enrichment in the bottom microchannel thus the buffer concentration in the bottom microfluidic channel increases with prolonged conduction of the separation process. By providing a lower concentration buffer at prescribed time periods in one embodiment or continually in another embodiment by electroosmosis or in another embodiment by pressure driven flow in the lower microchannel this effect is mitigated according to this embodiment.

In another embodiment of the invention preconcentration of the material may be enhanced by positioning nanofluidic channels on both sides of the microchannel and in fluid communication with the microchannel as shown for example in . Ion depletion initiation at the interface between the microchannel and the nanochannel is enhanced by positioning the nanochannels on either side of the microchannel and in some embodiments a more stable space charge region is produced.

In one embodiment the flow may be pressure driven and may be accomplished by any means well known to one skilled in the art. In another embodiment the flow may be a hybrid of pressure driven and electrokinetic flow.

In one embodiment the phrases pressure driven flow refers to flow that is driven by a pressure source external to the channel segment through which such flow is driven as contrasted to flow that is generated through the channel segment in question by the application of an electric field through that channel segment which is referred to herein in one embodiment as electrokinetically driven flow. 

Examples of pressure sources include negative and positive pressure sources or pumps external to the channel segment in question including electrokinetic pressure pumps e.g. pumps that generate pressure by electrokinetically driven flow in a pumping channel that is separate from the channel segment in question provided such pumps are external to the channel segment in question see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 012 902 and 6 171 067 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes .

In one embodiment the term electrokinetic flow refers to the movement of fluid or fluid borne material under an applied electric field. Electrokinetic flow generally encompasses one or both of electrophoresis e.g. the movement of charged species through the medium or fluid in which it is disposed as well as electroosmosis e.g. the electrically driven movement of the bulk fluid including all of its components. Accordingly when referred to in terms of electrokinetic flow it will be appreciated that what is envisioned is the full spectrum of electrokinetic flow from predominantly or substantially completely electrophoretic movement of species to predominantly electroosmotically driven movement of material e.g. in the case of uncharged material and all of the ranges and ratios of the two types of electrokinetic movement that fall between these extremes.

In one embodiment reference to the term liquid flow may encompass any or all of the characteristics of flow of fluid or other material through a passage conduit channel or across a surface. Such characteristics include without limitation the flow rate flow volume the conformation and accompanying dispersion profile of the flowing fluid or other material as well as other more generalized characteristics of flow e.g. laminar flow creeping flow turbulent flow etc.

In one embodiment hybrid flow may comprise pressure based relay of the liquid sample into the channel network followed by electrokinetic movement of materials or in another embodiment electrokinetic movement of the liquid followed by pressure driven flow.

In one embodiment the electric field may be induced in the respective channels by applying voltage from a voltage supply to the device. In one embodiment voltage is applied by way of the placement of at least one pair of electrodes capable of applying an electric field across at least some of the channels in at least one direction. Electrode metal contacts can be integrated using standard integrated circuit fabrication technology to be in contact with at least one microchannel or in another embodiment at least one nanochannel or in another embodiment a combination thereof and oriented as such to establish a directional electric field. Alternating current AC direct current DC or both types of fields can be applied. The electrodes can be made of almost any metal and in one embodiment comprise thin Al Au metal layers deposited on defined line paths. In one embodiment at least one end of one electrode is in contact with buffer solution in the reservoir.

In another embodiment the concentrator may contain at least two pairs of electrodes each providing an electric field in different directions. In one embodiment field contacts can be used to independently modulate the direction and amplitudes of the electric fields to in one embodiment orient the space charge layer or in another embodiment move macromolecules at desired speed or direction or in another embodiment a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the voltage applied is between 50 mV and 500 V. In one embodiment the voltage supply applies equal voltage to the anodic and cathodic side of the microchannel or in another embodiment the voltage supply applies greater voltage to the anodic side of said microchannel as compared to the cathodic side.

In one embodiment the voltage supply may be any electrical source which may be used to provide the desired voltage. The electrical source may be any source of electricity capable of generating the desired voltage. For example the electrical source may be a pizoelectrical source a battery or a device powered by household current. In one embodiment a pizoelectrical discharge from a gas igniter may be used.

In one embodiment the electrokinetic trapping in the device and sample collection can occur over a course of minutes or in another embodiment can be maintained for several hours. In one embodiment concentration over a course of time results in concentration factors as high as 10 10 and in another embodiment may be even higher upon optimization of the conditions employed during the concentration such as by modifying the interface between the microchannel and nanochannel voltage applied salt concentration of the liquid pH of the liquid or combination thereof.

In another embodiment the concentrator further comprises at least one waste reservoir in fluid communication with the microchannel microchannels nanochannel or nanochannels of the concentrator. In one embodiment the waste reservoir is capable of receiving a fluid.

In one embodiment the surface of the microchannel may be functionalized to reduce or enhance adsorption of the species of interest to the surface of the concentrator. In another embodiment the surface of the nanochannel and or microchannel has been functionalized to enhance or reduce the operation efficiency of the device. In another embodiment external gate potential is applied to the substrate of the device to enhance or reduce the operation efficiency of the device. In another embodiment the device is comprised of a transparent material. In another embodiment the transparent material is pyrex silicon dioxide silicon nitride quartz or SU 8.

In another embodiment the concentrator is adapted such that analysis of a species of interest may be conducted in one embodiment in the concentrator or in another embodiment downstream of the concentrator. In one embodiment analysis downstream of the concentrator refers to removal of the concentrated species from the device and placement in an appropriate setting for analysis or in another embodiment construction of a conduit from the concentrator which relays the concentrated material to an appropriate setting for analysis. In one embodiment such analysis may comprise signal acquisition and in another embodiment a data processor. In one embodiment the signal can be a photon electrical current impedance measurement or change in measurements. It is to be understood that the concentrating device of this invention may be useful in various analytical systems including bioanalysis Microsystems due to its simplicity performance robustness and integrabilty to other separation and detection systems and any integration of the device into such a system is to be considered as part of this invention.

In another embodiment the concentrator or in another embodiment the microchannel or microchannels are capable of being imaged with a two dimensional detector. Imaging of the concentrator or parts thereof may be accomplished by presenting it to a suitable apparatus for the collection of emitted signals such as in some embodiments optical elements for the collection of light from the microchannels.

In another embodiment the device is coupled to a separation system or in another embodiment a detection system or in another embodiment an analysis system or in another embodiment a combination thereof. In another embodiment the device is coupled to an illumination source.

In one embodiment the concentrator may be disposable and in another embodiment may be individually packaged and in another embodiment have a sample loading capacity of 1 50 000 individual fluid samples. In one embodiment the concentrator can be encased in a suitable housing such as plastic to provide a convenient and commercially ready cartridge or cassette. In one embodiment the concentrator will have suitable features on or in the housing for inserting guiding and aligning the device such that for example a sample loading compartment is aligned with a reservoir in another device which is to be coupled to the concentrator. For example the concentrator may be equipped with insertion slots tracks or a combination thereof or other adaptations for automation of the concentration process via a device of this invention.

The concentrator may be so adapted in one embodiment for high throughput screening of multiple samples such as will be useful in proteomics applications as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the concentrator is connected to electrodes which are connected to an electric potential generator which may in another embodiment be connected with metal contacts. Suitable metal contacts can be external contact patches that can be connected to an external scanning imaging electric field tuner in another embodiment.

In one embodiment of the present invention the concentrator is a part of a larger system which includes an apparatus to excite molecules inside the channels and detect and collect the resulting signals. In one embodiment a laser beam may be focused upon the sample plug using a focusing lens in another embodiment. The generated light signal from the molecules inside the microchannels may be collected by focusing collection lens and in another embodiment reflected off a dichroic mirror band pass filter into optical path which may in another embodiment be fed into a CCD charge coupled device camera.

In another embodiment an exciting light source could be passed through a dichroic mirror band pass filter box and focusing collecting scheme from the top of the concentrator. Various optical components and devices can also be used in the system to detect optical signals such as digital cameras PMTs photomultiplier tubes and APDs Avalanche photodiodes .

In another embodiment the system may further include a data processor. In one embodiment the data processor can be used to process the signals from a CCD to a digital image of the concentrated species onto a display. In one embodiment the data processor can also analyze the digital image to provide characterization information such as size statistics histograms karyotypes mapping diagnostics information and display the information in suitable form for data readout.

In one embodiment the device is further modified to contain an active agent in the microchannel. For example and in one embodiment the microchannel is coated with an enzyme at a region wherein the concentrated molecules will be trapped according to the methods of this invention. According to this aspect the enzyme such as a protease may come into contact with concentrated proteins and digest them. According to this aspect the invention provides a method for proteome analysis wherein for example a sample comprising a plurality of cellular polypeptides is concentrated in the microchannel to obtain a plurality of substantially purified polypeptides. The polypeptide is exposed to a protease immobilized within the microchannel under conditions sufficient to substantially digest the polypeptide thereby producing digestion products or peptides. The digestion products may in another embodiment then be transported to a downstream separation module where they are separated and in another embodiment from there the separated digestion products may be conveyed to a peptide analysis module. The amino acid sequences of the digestion products may be determined and assembled to generate a sequence of the polypeptide. Prior to delivery to a peptide analysis module the peptide may be conveyed to an interfacing module which in turn may perform one or more additional steps of separating concentrating and or focusing.

In other embodiments the proteases include but are not limited to peptidases such as aminopeptidases carboxypeptidases and endopeptidases e.g. trypsin chymotrypsin thermolysin endoproteinase Lys C endoproteinase GluC endoproteinase ArgC endoproteinase AspN . Aminopeptidases and carboxypeptidases are useful in characterizing post translational modifications and processing events. Combinations of proteases also can be used. In one embodiment the proteases and or other enzymes can be immobilized onto the microchannel surface using adsorptive or covalent methods. In some embodiments examples of covalent immobilization include direct covalent attachment of the protease to a surface with ligands such as glutaraldehyde isothiocyanate and cyanogen bromide. In other embodiments the proteases may be attached using binding partners which specifically react with the proteases or which bind to or react with molecules which are themselves coupled to the proteases e.g. covalently . Binding pairs may include the following cytostatin papain valphosphanate carboxypeptidase A biotin streptavidin riboflavin riboflavin binding protein antigen antibody binding pairs or combinations thereof.

In one embodiment the steps of concentrating polypeptides obtained from a given cell producing digestion products and analyzing digestion products to determine protein sequence can be performed in parallel and or iteratively for a given sample providing a proteome map of the cell from which the polypeptides were obtained. Proteome maps from multiple different cells can be compared to identify differentially expressed polypeptides in these cells and in other embodiments the cells may be subjected to various treatments conditions or extracted from various sources with the proteome map thus generated reflecting differential protein expression as a result of the status of the cell.

In certain embodiments of the present invention the concentrator may contain an apparatus for transporting concentrates from the microchannels into the waste reservoirs.

In one embodiment this invention provides an array architecture that is capable of being scaled to at least 10 000 concentrators suitable for a real world screen.

In one embodiment concentration efficiency may be determined by using labeled proteins or polypeptides introduced into the concentrator in known ratios and detecting the concentrated labeled protein or polypeptides such as exemplified hereinbelow. Signal intensity can be determined as a function of time over background noise.

In one embodiment the concentrators of this invention may be under controlled physicochemical parameters which may comprise temperature pH salt concentration or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the nanochannel may be replaced by a charged gel or random nanoporous material wherein charged group are embedded in the nanoporous material. In one embodiment according to this aspect of the invention the charged gel or nanoporous material may have a similar pore size. According to this aspect of the invention a space charge layer may be generated in the charged gel or random nanoporous material similar to that formed in the nanochannel as described and exemplified herein wherein an electric field is induced in the nanoporous charged gel or charged material similar to that induced in the nanochannel.

In one embodiment the invention provides for a method of concentrating a species of interest in a liquid comprising using a device of the invention.

In one embodiment this invention provides a microfluidic pump comprising a device of this invention which in one embodiment has a liquid flow speed of between 10 m sec and 10 mm sec.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of concentrating a species of interest in a liquid the method comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the flow is electroosmotic and in another embodiment the electroosmotic flow is induced in the microchannel via induction of an electric field in the microchannel. In another embodiment the flow is pressure driven.

In one embodiment within the thin nanofluidic channel perm selective portion of ion currents caused by the counterions within the Debye layer cannot be ignored compared with the total ion current through the nanochannel therefore more counterions from the Debye layer than co ions migrate across the nanochannel when an electric field is applied resulting in a net transfer of charges counterions from the anodic side to the cathodic side and a concentration polarization effect . According to this aspect of the invention ion depletion near the nanofluidic channel thickens the Debye layer causing its overlap more significantly in the nanofluidic channel speeding up the concentration polarization effect and above a certain threshold En value as described further hereinbelow results in electroosmosis with second order kinetics.

According to this aspect of the invention counterion depletion from the nanofluidic channel and creation of an extended space charge layer in bulk solution within the microchannel prevents co ion migration in this region. In one embodiment controlling the electric fields En and ET to balance the two forces anion repulsion from the space charge layer vs. nonlinear electroosmotic flow from the reservoir stabilizes the interface which is where anionic species of interest are trapped and collected according to this aspect of the invention.

In one embodiment equal voltage is applied to the anodic and cathodic side of the microchannel or in another embodiment greater voltage is applied to the anodic side of the microchannel as compared to the cathodic side. In another embodiment a space charge layer is generated in the microchannel prior to applying greater voltage to the anodic side of said microchannel.

In one embodiment the liquid is a solution. In another embodiment the liquid is a suspension which in another embodiment is an organ homogenate cell extract or blood sample. In one embodiment the species of interest comprises proteins polypeptides nucleic acids viral particles or combinations thereof. In one embodiment the species of interest is a protein nucleic acid virus or viral particle found in or secreted from a cell and in another embodiment is found in very low quantities such that it represents less than 10 of the protein extracted form a protein extract of the cell.

In one embodiment the methods of this invention and the devices of this invention enable collection of molecules from a relatively large 1 L or larger sample volume and their concentration into a small 1pL 1nL volume. Such concentrated sample can then in other embodiments be efficiently sorted separated or detected by various microfluidic systems without sacrificing the overall detection sensitivity caused by the small sample volume capacity of microfluidic biomolecule sorting detection systems.

In one embodiment the methods and concentrating devices of this invention allow for significantly increased signal intensity of a molecules and subsequent just detection which in another embodiment allows for more aggressive molecular sorting and or removal of high abundance molecules such as proteins from a sample without sacrificing the detectability of molecules in minute concentration such as minor proteins or peptides.

In another embodiment the devices for and methods of concentration of this invention enable the use of several non labeling detection techniques UV absorption for example which was not possible due to the short path length and small internal volume of conventional microfluidic channels. Therefore in another embodiment the devices for and methods of concentration of this invention which combine concentration and molecular sorting may provide an ideal platform for integrated Microsystems for biomarker detection environmental analysis and chemical biological agent detection.

In one embodiment the method further comprises the step of releasing the species of interest from the device. In one embodiment the method further comprises the step of subjecting the species of interest to capillary electrophoresis.

Capillary electrophoresis is a technique that utilizes the electrophoretic nature of molecules and or the electroosmotic flow of samples in small capillary tubes to separate sample components. Typically a fused silica capillary of 100 m inner diameter or less is filled with a buffer solution containing an electrolyte. Each end of the capillary is placed in a separate fluidic reservoir containing a buffer electrolyte. A potential voltage is placed in one of the buffer reservoirs and a second potential voltage is placed in the other buffer reservoir. Positively and negatively charged species will migrate in opposite directions through the capillary under the influence of the electric field established by the two potential voltages applied to the buffer reservoirs. The electroosmotic flow and the electrophoretic mobility of each component of a fluid will determine the overall migration for each fluidic component. The fluid flow profile resulting from electroosmotic flow is flat due to the reduction in frictional drag along the walls of the separation channel. The observed mobility is the sum of the electroosmotic and electrophoretic mobilities and the observed velocity is the sum of the electroosmotic and electrophoretic velocities.

In one embodiment of the invention a capillary electrophoresis system is micromachined onto a device which is a part of or separate from the concentrating device described herein. Methods of micromachining capillary electrophoresis systems onto devices are well known in the art and are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 274 089 U.S. Pat. No. 6 271 021 Effenhauser et al. 1993 Anal. Chem. 65 2637 2642 Harrison et al. 1993 Science 261 895 897 Jacobson et al. 1994 Anal. Chem. 66 1107 1113 and Jacobson et al. 1994 Anal. Chem. 66 1114 1118.

In one embodiment the capillary electrophoresis separations provide a sample which may then be used for both MALDI MS and or ESI MS MS based protein analyses see e.g. Feng et al. 2000 Journal of the American Society For Mass Spectrometry 11 94 99 Koziel New Orleans La. 2000 Khandurina et al. 1999 Analytical Chemistry 71 1815 1819.

In other embodiments downstream separation devices which may interface with the concentrator of this invention include but are not limited to micro high performance liquid chromatographic columns for example reverse phase ion exchange and affinity columns.

It is to be understood that the exact configuration of any systems devices etc. which are coupled downstream of the concentrating device are to be considered as part of this invention and that the configuration may be varied to suit a desired application. In one embodiment a module for separation of the concentrated peptides which is positioned downstream of the concentrating device comprises a separation medium and a capillary between the ends of which an electric field is applied. The transport of a separation medium in the capillary system and the injection of the sample to be tested e.g. a sample band comprising peptides and or partially digested polypeptides into the separation medium can be carried out with the aid of pumps and valves or in another embodiment via electric fields applied to various points of the capillary.

In another embodiment the method is utilized to detect said species of interest when said species is present in said liquid at a concentration which is below a limit of detection.

As exemplified hereinbelow a solution of 33 pM green fluorescent protein GFP loaded into the device when monitored by fluorescence microscopy was below the limit of detection. Concentration of the solution as described enabled detection of the 33 pM GFP and that of even more dilute GFP protein solutions of 33 fM when monitored over approximately 3 hours with concentration of factors of 10 10achieved.

In one embodiment concentration speed is rapid. As exemplified hereinbelow 10 fold concentration of the GFP solution was achieved within an hour. Since the approximate volume of concentrated plug is about 0.5 pL 1.5 m 20 m 20 m then the concentrating device pumped sample liquid volume as large as 1 L through the channel and trapped the GFP within that volume. Given the concentration time of 10sec in this experiment the average sample flow speed should be as high as 1 mm sec.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method for controlling liquid flow in a system the method comprising 

Controlling liquid flow has numerous application in a wide range of fields as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. In one embodiment the methods of controlling liquid flow and or the methods of concentrating a species of interest may be useful in biosensor devices. In one embodiment control of liquid flow is essential in biosensors wherein flow and mixing of a sample and various reactants to and from reservoirs in a microfluidic system is required. In another embodiment concentration of a minute quantity of a species of interest for detection is a critical element of a biosensor device. In one embodiment such methods are particularly useful in detecting organisms in a latent or spore state wherein detection of the organism is otherwise difficult.

In other embodiments various applications of the methods of the present invention are possible without deviating from the present invention. For the method of controlling fluid flow for example multiple microchannels may be so deposited such that fluid flow is directed to a central reservoir to which additional microchannels may be connected. According to this aspect the fluid once within the reservoir may then be mixed and in turn be pumped through the second set of microchannels to another reservoir connected thereto for further manipulation. It can be appreciated that the pumping method of the present invention works with various types of fluids including water and biological fluids.

By way of example the concentrating and pumping methods of the present invention allow for high throughput robotic assaying systems to directly interface with the devices of the present invention and to concentrate a species of interest and or and pump liquid.

Various modes of carrying out the invention are contemplated as being within the scope of the following claims particularly pointing out and distinctly claiming the subject matter which is regarded as the invention.

Fabrication techniques were as described J. Han H. G. Craighead 17 2142 2147 1999 J. Han H. G. Craighead 288 1026 1029 2000 . Two reactive ion etchings were used. After patterning the 5 20 M wide nanochannels with standard lithography tools the fist reactive ion etching RIE etching was conducted for about 10 sec to etch 40 nm nanochannel while the second etching created two parallel 1.5 m microfluidic channels across the nanofilter. Nanofilters with a depth between 30 and 70 nm were fabricated to demonstrate the effects of buffer concentration and channel depth. After completing RIE etching KOH etching was used to etch through the loading holes. Thermal oxidation was conducted following nitride stripping which provided proper electrical insulation. The bottom of the device was then bonded with a Pyrex wafer using standard anodic bonding techniques.

A 10 mM phosphate buffer dibasic sodium phosphate at pH 9.1 was mainly used supplemented with 10 M EDTA to prevent bacterial growth. Successful pre concentration was demonstrated under conditions of pH 4.6 10 mM phosphate buffer as well. Conditions of 10 mM pH 3.5 acetate buffer and 1 TBE buffer 80 mM were without significant preconcentration effect.

Under conditions of 10 mM phosphate buffer no polarization effect was observed in channels with a depth greater than 50 nm probably due to the low pH which suppressed surface ionization or too high buffer ionic strength where the nanofilter becomes less permselective due to smaller Debye length .

Molecules and dyes used included rGFP BD bioscience Palo Alto Calif. FITC BSA Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. FITC Ovalbumin Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. FITC BSA Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. FITC dye Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. Mito Orange Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. and lambda DNA 500 g ml . DNA molecules were labeled with YOYO 1 intercalating dyes Molecular Probles Eugene Oreg. by following manufacturer s instruction.

Also NH GCEHH COOH SEQ ID NO 1 pI 4.08 peptide molecules were synthesized at the Biopolymers Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and labeled with a thiol conjugating dye by the following procedure HPLC purified peptide sample was first reconstituted to a 10 mM peptide concentrated solution 0.1 M pH 7.4 phosphate buffer as a stock solution then diluted to 1 mM. The diluted stock solution was mixed at a 1 to 1 ratio with 10 mM TCEP Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. and 5 TMRIA dye Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. . The reaction was allowed to proceed at 4 C. for 24 hours shielded from exposure to light following which non reacted dyes were terminated by adding 100 mM 2 Mercaptoethanol Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. and dialyzed out using a mini dialysis kit with 1 kDa cut off Amersham Bioscience Piscataway N.J. .

All the experiments were conducted on an inverted microscope IX 71 with fluorescence excitation light source attached. A thermoelectrically cooled CCD camera Cooke Co. Auburn Hill Mich. was used for fluorescence imaging. Sequences of images were analyzed by IPLab 3.6 Scanalytics Fairfax Va. . A home made voltage divider was used to distribute different potentials to reservoirs. The built in 100W mercury lamp was used as a light source and a neutral density filter is used to reduce the light intensity and to increase the dynamic range of detection.

Quantification of the molecular concentration in the channel is depicted in . Since the device can generate sample plugs that saturate the CCD array used for detection a neutral density filter which allowed for at least 12 transmission Olympus 32ND12 was used with 70 NA aperture 50 transmission to decrease excitation light intensity. By decreasing light intensity to 0.6 the dynamic range of the detector was increased while the rate of photobleaching was reduced.

Channels were filled with 3.3 M and 0.33 M GFP solutions and fluorescent signal from the solutions in the channels were measured. The camera shutter was opened only during periodical exposures 1 sec to minimize photobleaching of the collected molecules.

In order to prevent non specific binding of proteins prior to and following each experiment chips were exposed to a laser for a period of time sufficient to completely quench residual fluorescence due to the non specific binding of the fluorescent protein to the wall in addition to use of freshly fabricated and filled devices to eliminate carryover effects.

In order to prevent the adsorption of samples on untreated silica surfaces a standard polyacryamide coating S. Hjerten 347 191 198 1985 was applied. The device was coated with 3 trimethoxysilyl propyl methacrylate as an adhesion promoter. Then 5 polyacrylamide solution was mixed with 0.2 VA 086 photoinitiator WAKO Richmond Va. and exposed under a UV lamp from 5 minutes to initiate polymerization. After the coating there was no noticeable level of adsorption to the device. Even though the polyacryamide coating process was expected to decrease surface potential and surface charge density similar charge polarization and sample trapping pattern was observed albeit with a lower efficiency by applying a higher operating potential. The lower efficiency was overcome by adopting an even lower buffer ionic strength.

To demonstrate the adaptability of the device to different buffer conditions buffer concentrations at different pH 5 9 different buffer solutions and different ionic strengths were evaluated. The operation of the device was also tested using an extract solution that comes directly from a polyacrylamide gel slice after performing reduction alkylation trypsinzation and peptide isolation simulating using biosamples directly from gel electrophoresis in the device as in typical proteomics research environments. The extract solution contained no proteins but small amounts of salts and small molecules may have been present in the gel from the sample or electrophoresis buffer Tris glycine Sodium dodecyl sulfate glycerol Dithiothreitol possible keratin contaminants from staining Coomassie blue and or from the reduction and alkylation steps Tris 2 carboxy ethyl phosphine hydrochloride iodoacetamide ammonium bicarbonate . The extraction by sonication was performed on the trypsinization solution 60 L 10 ng L trypsin and or trypsin peptides in ammonium bicarbonate buffer following enzyme inactivation with 20 L of 20 formic acid. This extraction solution was collected and concentrated in the speedvac. Extraction with sonication was performed sequentially using 200 L of 100 mM ammonium biocarbonate 0.1 trifluoroacetic acid TFA in water twice 0.1 TFA in 50 50 water to acetonitrile. Each time the extracted solution was collected and pooled with the extracted solution from the preceding step and concentrated down to approximately 10 L in the speedvac. Then this complex solution was used as a sample buffer by adding labeled GFP molecules. For the preconcentration step this simulated sample solution was diluted with 10 mM phosphate buffer 1 9 ratio and loaded into the channel.

Biomolecules are efficiently concentrated in a device which provides for a nonlinear electroosmotic flow much stronger than normal electroosmotic flow generated in a channel of the device conveying biomolecules to a trapping region with a high flow speed in combination with an energy barrier for the molecules generated by an induced space charge layer in the device. The combination of these two phenomena results in a rapid concentration of charged biomolecules for example proteins and peptides within a microfluidic channel of the device without any physical barriers or reagents up to 10 10fold in concentration.

One embodiment of the device is schematically depicted in and B. One or many thin nanofluidic channels typically less than 50 nm in thickness connect at least two microfluidic channels . Two separate electric fields are applied to the device and controlled independently as shown in . The field in the nanofluidic channel E is used to generate an ion depletion region and extended space charge layer that traps anionic biomolecules. A tangential field induced in the microfluidic channel E in the anodic side generates an electroosmotic flow conveying molecules from the reservoir into the trapped region .

Another embodiment of the device is schematically depicted in . A nanofluidic channel connects two microfluidic channels . Electric fields are applied to the device by means of the electrodes as shown. The field in the nanofluidic channel E is used to generate an ion depletion region and extended space charge layer that traps anionic biomolecules. A tangential field induced in the microfluidic channel E in the anodic side generates an electroosmotic flow conveying molecules from the sample reservoir into a trapped region in the microchannel. The sample reservoir contains the sample suspended or solubilized in the fluid. Other containers with buffer in contact with the microchannels are depicted in the figure where some function as waste reservoirs collection means etc. as described herein.

The device may be fabricated using standard photolithography and reactive ion etching techniques as described. The thickness and uniformity of the nanofluidic channel structure was checked by scanning electron micrograph and the fabrication technique used produced nanofluidic channel as thin as 20 nm without significant deformation or collapsing of the channel data not shown .

Nanofluidic channels 50 nm in thickness can support perm selective ion current similar to what occurs in ion exchange membranes. Within such a thin nanofluidic channel perm selective portion of ion currents caused by the counterions within the Debye layer cannot be ignored compared with the total ion current through the nanochannel. Therefore more counterions from the Debye layer than co ions will migrate across the nanochannel when an electric field is applied . This results in net transfer of charges counterions from the anodic side to the cathodic side and the overall ion concentration will be decreased on the cathodic side due to a concentration polarization effect .

Ion depletion caused by concentration polarization near the nanofluidic channel will make the Debye layer thicker and overlap more significantly in the nanofluidic channel which will speed up the concentration polarization. Above a certain threshold Evalue the ion transport across the channel enters a new non linear regime electrokinetics of the second kind which has been previously reported in ion exchange membranes. In this regime counterions are depleted from the nanofluidic channel and an extended space charge layer induced electrical double layer will be formed in the bulk solution nearby within the microfluidic channel in this case. Within this induced electrical double layer electroneutrality is locally broken these charges are screening the fixed surface charges within the nanochannel and co ions biomolecules are prohibited from this region because of its negative potential just as in the Debye layer.

Such an induced mobile ion layer could generate a strong electroosmotic flow when a tangential component of electric field E is applied . By carefully controlling the electric fields Eand E one can balance the two forces anion repulsion from the space charge layer vs. nonlinear electroosmotic flow from the reservoir stabilizing the interface. This interface is where anionic biomolecules are trapped and collected.

Nonlinear electroosmotic flow has a flow velocity which is a nonlinear function in this case EE of the electric field. Much stronger electroosmotic flow velocity can be generated typically 10 100 times faster as compared to normal electroosmotic flow caused by the surface Debye layer charges . Others using charged membrane beads demonstrated the generation of electroosmosis of the second kind however such flow produced strong but uncontrollable flow vortices near the membrane which were used for a fast mixing. The extended space charge layer is at an unstable non equilibrium state providing chaotic or oscillatory ion transport behavior in such systems.

In contrast to previous reports electroosmosis here was well controlled due to the stability of the solid state nanofluidic charge selective interface generated which also contributed to the efficiency of concentration.

Concentration speed in the embodied device was high. 10 fold concentration was achieved within an hour. Since the approximate volume of the concentrated plug is about 0.5 pL 1.5 m 20 m 20 m this means the embodied device pumped a sample liquid volume as large as 1 L through the channel and trapped the GFP within that volume. Given the concentration time of 10sec in this experiment the average sample flow speed should be as high as 1 mm sec a value not obtainable with normal electroosmotic flow first order which only generates up to 10 100 m sec with the field used in this experiment 10V cm . The fast collection and fast sample fluid pumping can be only explained by the occurrence of electroosmosis with second order kinetics. Induced space charges are generated within the microchannel by the field E and the tangential field E mobilizes these induced space charges toward the cathodic reservoir. Therefore the preconcentrator in this paper not only traps the molecules but also pumps the sample liquid very efficiently. In addition to sample concentration the embodied device may serve as a microfluidic pumping device which is much more efficient than electroosmotic electrokinetic pumping and simpler to implement than AC electrokinetic pumping.

Other conditions evaluated for biomolecular concentration using the embodied device include varying the ionic strength of the buffer used. While the preconcentration efficiency is improved when the ionic strength of the buffer is decreased it can be operated even at 10 mM phosphate buffer condition.

Varying the nanofluidic channel thickness and or buffer ionic strength or composition was evaluated as well data not shown . In general increasing nanofluidic channel thickness is inversely proportional to the buffer ionic strength required for the operation of the embodied device.

Further varying the size and number of the nanofilters in a given device affect the concentration efficiency of the device due to different electrical field distributions in the system.

The embodied device was tested for its ability to concentrate proteins synthesized peptide fluorescent dye and fluorescent beads in solution data not shown . Further device operation was tested when the device surface was coated with polyacrylamide polymer to prevent non specific binding of the biomolecules. In all cases molecular trapping was accomplished with concentration speed varying as a function of the different conditions applied.

This clearly demonstrates the flexibility and adaptability of the device toward further integration. Even a complex solution directly from the in gel digestion of gel electrophoresis which has high ionic strength and contains some organic solvents can be used after being diluted in the phosphate buffer of 10 mM. This opens up the possibility of using samples directly from gel electrophoresis or other conventional purification techniques using high ionic strength buffers in the preconcentration device.

Molecular trapping in the embodied device can be turned off by removing E. The buffer solution is expected to re establish the ionic balance as soon as the field is turned off. When the field is turned off the collected peak is instantly dispersed to about twice the original peak width but there is no further dispersion observed. Therefore the molecular plug generated by the embodied device can be easily manipulated either by electric field electrophoresis or pressure driven flow. demonstrates capillary electrophoresis of two protein species collected by the embodied device. The results indicate effective coupling of the embodied device and downstream analysis tools in this case free solution capillary electrophoresis.

It is possible to further stabilize the space charge region by manipulating buffer conditions in the devices of the invention . In one embodiment a device comprising two or a series of two microchannels are each connected by a nanochannel. According to this embodiment over a course of time ion depletion in a top microchannel leads to ion enrichment in a bottom microchannel thus the buffer concentration in the bottom microfluidic channel increases with prolonged conduction of the separation process. In one embodiment the section closest to the nanochannel in particular is affected. With time the ion selectivity of the nanofluidic channel may weaken and unstable depletion in the top channel may result. It is possible however to provide a source of a lower concentration of the buffer at prescribed time periods in one embodiment or continually in another embodiment by electroosmosis or in another embodiment by pressure driven flow.

In another embodiment of the invention preconcentration of the material may be enhanced by positioning nanofluidic channels on both sides of the microchannel and in fluid communication with the microchannel . Because ion depletion initiates at the interface between the microchannel and the nanochannel when only one nanochannel is present adjacent to the microchannel ion depletion must extend across the entire length of the microfluidic channel before separation can occur. As shown in positioning of nanochannels on either side of the microchannel allows for faster and more complete ion depletion and in some embodiments a more stable space charge region.

