---

title: Coaxial waveguide microstructures having an active device and methods of formation thereof
abstract: Provided are coaxial waveguide microstructures. The microstructures include a substrate and a coaxial waveguide disposed above the substrate. The coaxial waveguide includes: a center conductor; an outer conductor including one or more walls, spaced apart from and disposed around the center conductor; one or more dielectric support members for supporting the center conductor in contact with the center conductor and enclosed within the outer conductor; and a core volume between the center conductor and the outer conductor, wherein the core volume is under vacuum or in a gas state. Also provided are methods of forming coaxial waveguide microstructures by a sequential build process and hermetic packages which include a coaxial waveguide microstructure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07405638&OS=07405638&RS=07405638
owner: Rohm and Haas Electronic Materials LLC
number: 07405638
owner_city: Marlborough
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061212
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 316 417 filed Dec. 22 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 148 772 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 793 574 filed Mar. 4 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 012 489 therethrough claiming the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 452 073 filed Mar. 4 2003 and 60 474 549 filed May 29 2003 the entire contents of which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Agreement No. W911QX 04 C 0097 awarded by DARPA. The Government has certain fights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to microfabrication technology and to electronic devices. More particularly the present invention relates to coaxial waveguide microstructures and to methods of forming such microstructures as well as to electronic devices which include such microstructures.

Coaxial waveguide microstructures fanned by sequential build processes have been described for example in International Application Publication No. WO 00 39854 WO 854 . With reference to WO 854 discloses a coaxial waveguide microstructure formed by a sequential build process. The microstructure includes an insulating substrate metallic ground lines formed on the substrate which are disconnected and divided into two parts metallic supporters formed on the surface of the insulating substrate between the divided ground lines a signal line on the supporters for transmission of the signals ground walls formed on the ground lines a ground line formed on the wound walls and an air or vacuous core volume. There are various disadvantages associated with this type of coaxial waveguide structure. For example the use of metal supporters for supporting the signal line would result in some degree of reflection of the propagated waves and thus create signal interference. Further the process is not readily scalable to a stacked structure having a plurality of coaxial layer structures due for example to the requirement that the metal supporters be connected to the dielectric substrate as a means of support. A multi layer structure is desirable for example in crossovers and for realizing a complex distribution network. In addition the choice of a substrate material in this known structure is not flexible but is limited to dielectric materials to achieve similar waveguiding performance. Further the coaxial waveguide structure cannot be separated from the substrate due to the requisite mechanical connection of the supporters to the substrate.

There is thus a need for improved methods of forming coaxial waveguide microstructures which overcome or conspicuously ameliorate one or more of the problems described above with respect to the related art.

In accordance with a first aspect of the invention provided are coaxial waveguide microstructures. The microstructures include a substrate and a coaxial waveguide disposed above the substrate. The coaxial waveguide includes a center conductor an outer conductor including one or more walls spaced apart from and disposed around the center conductor one or more dielectric support members for supporting the center conductor in contact with the center conductor and enclosed within the outer conductor and a core volume between the center conductor and the outer conductor wherein the core volume is under vacuum or in a gas state.

In accordance with a further aspect of the invention provided are methods of forming coaxial waveguide microstructures by a sequential build process. The methods involve a depositing a plurality of layers over a substrate wherein the layers include one or more of a metal material a sacrificial photoresist material and a dielectric material thereby forming a structure above the substrate which includes a center conductor an outer conductor having one or more walls spaced apart from and disposed around the center conductor one or more dielectric support members for supporting the center conductor in contact with the center conductor and enclosed within the outer conductor and a core volume between the center conductor and the outer conductor wherein the core volume includes sacrificial photoresist and b removing the sacrificial photoresist from the core volume.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to one skilled in the art upon review of the following description claims and drawings appended hereto.

The exemplary processes to be described involve a sequential build to create microstructures containing metal dielectric and gas or a vacuous atmosphere. In the sequential build process a structure is formed by sequentially layering various materials in a defined manner. When implemented with lithographic patterning and other optional processes for example planarization techniques a flexible method to form a variety of components such as the exemplified suspended coaxial waveguide microstructures is provided.

The sequential build process is generally accomplished through processes including one or more of a metal coating sacrificial photoresist coating and dielectric coating processes b surface planarization c photolithography and d etching or other layer removal processes. In depositing metal plating techniques have been found to be particularly useful although other metal deposition techniques such as physical vapor deposition PVD and chemical vapor deposition CVD techniques may be used. A typical sequential build process which includes a plating technique is described as follows.

An optionally patterned conductive base or seed layer is formed at all locations to be plated with metal. Patterning can be accomplished for example by selective deposition of the conductive base or seed layer such as by shadow masking etching the seed layer using a resist and etchant or by applying thin passivation to the seed layer such as a thin permanent dielectric such methods being known in the art of plating on seed layers. A photoresist pattern or mold is formed over the base or seed layer by coating and patterning. Next a metal structure is plated on all areas at which the base layer or seed layer is exposed until a desired thickness is achieved. The resulting structure is optionally planarized to eliminate significant thickness variations from being carried into subsequent iterations of the process sequence.

One or more dielectric layers may be deposited at a desired point in the process sequence. For example a dielectric layer may be formed prior to seed layer formation if metal plating over exposed dielectric material in a subsequent plating step is desired or after seed layer formation if plating over the exposed dielectric material is to be prevented. The dielectric layer may for example be formed by spin coating and patterning of the dielectric. This technique is useful for example where the patterned layer does not adversely affect a resist layer formed thereon for example where the thickness of the patterned dielectric e.g. several microns is significantly less than a resist e.g. 100 m formed thereon. Another technique for forming the dielectric features involves pre patterning the plating base or seed layer in such a way that metal is not formed on certain regions of the base layer after formation of the resist pattern mold but rather leaves empty pockets which can subsequently be filled with the dielectric material. In this case the dielectric material is typically filled to the level of the resist mold or above the resist mold and is planarized with the resist and any metal to create a planar layer before the next process sequence begins.

After all of the structural layers have been created the sacrificial resist is removed from the structure leaving the other materials including the dielectric in place. This may be accomplished by use of a solvent or developer in which the resist is soluble and the other materials are insoluble or relatively insoluble. Optional finishing steps such as chemical polishing and or overcoat plating may be desired.

The methods and devices of the invention will now be described with reference to which show cross sectional and top down views of an exemplary coaxial waveguide microstructure during various stages of formation in accordance with one aspect of the invention. The coaxial waveguides are useful for propagation of radio frequency RF energy for example from several MHz to 100 GHz or more such as millimeter waves and microwaves as well as DC signals.

Referring to the waveguide is formed on a substrate which may be for example a ceramic a semiconductor a metal or a polymer. The substrate can take the form for example of a printed wiring board or a semiconductor substrate such as a silicon or gallium arsenide wafer. The substrate may have an expansion coefficient similar to the materials used in forming the waveguide and should be selected so as to maintain its integrity during formation of the waveguide. Also the surface of the substrate on which the waveguide is to be formed is typically planar. The substrate surface may for example be lapped and or polished to achieve a high degree of planarity. Planarization of the surface of the structure being formed can be performed before or after formation of any of the layers during the process. Conventional planarization techniques for example chemical mechanical polishing CMP lapping or a combination of these methods are typically used. Other known planarization techniques for example mechanical finishing such as mechanical machining diamond turning plasma etching laser ablation and the like may additionally or alternatively be used.

A base layer is deposited over the substrate and forms a bottom wall of the waveguide outer conductor in the final waveguide structure. The base layer may be formed of a material having high conductivity such as a metal or metal alloy collectively referred to as metal for example copper nickel aluminum chromium gold titanium alloys thereof a doped semiconductor material or combinations thereof for example multiple layers of such materials. The base layer is deposited by a conventional process for example by plating such as electrolytic and or electroless plating physical vapor deposition PVD such as sputtering or chemical vapor deposition CVD . Plated copper is believed to be particularly suitable as the base layer material with such techniques being well understood in the art. The plating can be for example an electroless process using a copper salt and a reducing agent. Suitable materials are commercially available and include for example C electroless copper available from Rohm and Haas Electronic Materials L.L.C. Marlborough Mass. Alternatively the material can be plated by use of an electrically conductive seed layer followed by electrolytic plating. Suitable electrolytic materials are commercially available and include for example CG acid plating products available from Rohm and Haas Electronic Materials L.L.C. The use of an activated catalyst followed by electrolytic deposition can alternatively be used. The base layer and subsequent layers may be patterned into arbitrary geometries to realize a desired device structure through the methods outlined.

The thickness of the base layer and the subsequently formed other walls of the waveguide outer conductor is selected to provide mechanical stability to the waveguide and to provide sufficient conductivity for the electrons moving through the waveguide. At very high frequencies structural and thermal conductivity influences become more pronounced as the skin depth will typically be less than 1 m. The thickness thus will depend for example on the specific base layer material the particular frequency to be propagated and the intended application. For example in instances in which the final structure is to be removed from the substrate it may be beneficial to employ a relatively thick base layer for example from about 20 to 150 m or from 20 to 80 m for structural integrity. Where the final structure is to remain intact with the substrate it may be desired to employ a relatively thin base layer which may be determined by the skin depth requirements of the frequencies used. The base layer may optionally next be planarized by the techniques described above.

With reference to a photoresist layer is deposited over the base layer and is exposed and developed to form a pattern for subsequent deposition of lower sidewall portions of the waveguide outer conductor. The pattern includes two parallel channels in the resist exposing the top surface of the base layer . Conventional photolithography steps and materials can be used for this purpose. The resist can be for example a positive or negative resist such as Shipley BPR 100 P SP or P SN available from Rohm and Haas Electronic Materials L.L.C. or a dry film such as the L dry films also available from Rohm and Haas Electronic Materials L.L.C.

As shown in lower sidewall portions of the waveguide outer conductor are next formed. Appropriate materials and techniques for forming the sidewalls are the same as those mentioned above with respect to the base layer. The sidewalls are typically formed of the same material used in forming the base layer although different materials may be employed. In the case of a plating process the application of a seed layer or plating base may be omitted as here when metal in a subsequent step will only be applied directly over a previously formed exposed metal region. It should be clear however that the exemplified structures shown in the figures typically make up only a small area of a particular device and metallization of these and other structures may be started on any layer in the process sequence in which case seed layers are typically used.

Surface planarization at this stage can be performed in order to remove any unwanted metal deposited on the top surface of the resist in addition to providing a flat surface for subsequent processing. Through surface planarization the total thickness of a given layer can be controlled more tightly than might otherwise be achieved through coating alone. For example a CMP process can be used to planarize the metal and the resist to the same level. This may be followed for example by a lapping process which slowly removes metal resist and any dielectric at the same rate allowing for greater control of the final thickness of the layer.

As shown in a support layer of a dielectric material is next deposited over the resist layer and the lower sidewall portions . In subsequent processing support structures are patterned from the support layer to support the waveguide center conductor to be formed. As these support structures will lie in the core region of the final waveguide structure the support layer should be formed from a material such that the support structures do not create excessive losses for the energy to be transmitted through the waveguide. The material should also be capable of providing the mechanical strength necessary to support the center conductor and should be relatively insoluble in the solvent used to remove the sacrificial resist from the final waveguide structure. The support layer material is typically a dielectric material selected from inorganic materials such as silicas and silicon oxides SOL gels various glasses silicon nitride SiN aluminum oxides such as alumina AlO aluminum nitride AlN and magnesium oxide MgO organic materials such as polyethylene polyester polycarbonate cellulose acetate polypropylene polyvinyl chloride polyvinylidene chloride polystyrene polyamide and polyimide organic inorganic hybrid materials such as organic silsesquioxane materials a photodefinable dielectric such as a negative acting photoresist or photoepoxy which is not attacked by the sacrificial resist removal process to be conducted. It is advantageous to use materials which can be easily deposited for example by spin coating roller coating squeegee coating spray coating chemical vapor deposition CVD or lamination. The support layer is deposited to a thickness that provides for the requisite support of the center conductor without cracking or breakage. In addition the thickness should not severely impact subsequent application of resist layers from the standpoint of planarity.

Referring to the support layer is next patterned using standard photolithography and etching techniques to provide a plurality of conductor supports . Plural conductor supports may be associated with both of the lower sidewall portions . One end of each of the supports is formed over one or the other lower sidewall portion and the opposite end extends to a position over the resist layer between the sidewall portions . The supports on each sidewall portion are spaced apart from one another typically at a fixed distance and those on one sidewall portion are typically offset from those on the opposite sidewall portion so as not to be directly opposite one another. In an alternative embodiment the support members can be formed to extend from one sidewall portion to the other. The number shape and pattern of arrangement of the supports should be sufficient to provide support to the center conductor while preventing excessive signal loss. In addition the shape and periodicity or aperiodicity may be selected to prevent reflections at frequencies where low loss propagation is desired as can be calculated using methods know in the art of creating Bragg gratings and filters unless such function is desired.

With reference to a resist layer is deposited over the substrate and is exposed and developed to form patterns and for subsequent deposition of middle sidewall portions of the waveguide outer conductor and the center conductor respectively. The pattern for the middle sidewall portion includes two channels coextensive with the two lower sidewall portions . The lower sidewall portions and the end of the conductor supports overlying the lower sidewall portions are exposed by pattern . The pattern for the center conductor is a channel parallel to and between the two middle sidewall patterns exposing the opposite ends of and supporting portions of the conductor supports . Conventional photolithography steps and materials such as those described above can be used for this purpose.

As shown in the middle sidewall portions of the outer conductor and the center conductor are next formed by depositing a suitable material into the channels formed by the resist . Appropriate materials and techniques for forming the middle sidewall portions and center conductor are the same as those mentioned above with respect to the base layer and lower sidewall portions although different materials and or techniques may be employed. Surface planarization may optionally be performed at this stage to remove any unwanted metal deposited on the top surface of the. resist in addition to providing a flat surface for subsequent processing as has been previously described and optionally applied to any or every layer.

With reference to a resist layer is deposited over the substrate and is exposed and developed to form pattern for subsequent deposition of upper sidewall portions of the outer conductor. The pattern for the middle sidewall portion includes two channels coextensive with and exposing the two middle sidewall portions . Conventional photolithography steps and materials as described above can be used for this purpose.

As illustrated in upper sidewall portions of the outer conductor are next formed by depositing a suitable material into the channels formed by the resist . Appropriate materials and techniques for forming the upper sidewalls are the same as those mentioned above with respect to the base layer and other sidewall portions. The upper sidewalls are typically formed with the same materials and techniques used in forming the base layer and other sidewalls although different materials and or techniques may be employed. Surface planarization can optionally be performed at this stage to remove any unwanted metal deposited on the top surface of the resist in addition to providing a flat surface for subsequent processing.

With reference to a resist layer is deposited over the substrate and is exposed and developed to form pattern for subsequent deposition of the top wall of the waveguide outer conductor. The pattern for the top wall exposes the upper sidewalls and the area therebetween. Optionally patterning of resist layer will also result in one or more regions of the resist layer in the area between upper sidewall portions . These remaining portions can for example be in the form of resist pillars . Subsequent deposition of the top wall of the outer conductor would be prevented in these regions of remaining resist . As described in greater detail below this results in openings in the subsequently deposited outer conductor top wall facilitating removal of resist from the final structure.

As shown in the top wall of the outer conductor is next formed by depositing a suitable material into the exposed region over and between the upper sidewall portion . As can be seen deposition is prevented in the volume occupied by and on the resist pillars . Appropriate materials and techniques for forming the upper sidewalls are the same as those mentioned above with respect to the base layer and sidewall portions. The top wall is typically formed with the same materials and techniques used in forming the base layer and other sidewalls although different materials and or techniques may be employed. Surface planarization can optionally be performed at this stage.

With the basic structure of the waveguide being complete additional layer may be added or the resist remaining in the structure may next be removed. The resist may be removed by known solvents or removers based on the type of resist used. In order for the resist to be removed from the structure the solvent must come into contact with the resist. The resist is exposed at the end faces of the waveguide structure. Additional openings in the waveguide such as described above with respect to may be provided to facilitate contact between the solvent and resist throughout the structure. Other structures for allowing contact between the resist and solvent are envisioned. For example openings can be formed in the waveguide sidewalls during the patterning process. The dimensions of these openings may be selected to minimize interference with scattering or leakage of the guided wave. The dimensions can for example be selected to be less than or 1 10 of the wavelength of the highest frequency used.

The final waveguide structure after removal of the sacrificial resist is shown in . The space previously occupied by the sacrificial resist within the outer walls of the waveguide forms the waveguide core . This volume is typically occupied by air. However it is also envisioned that a gas having better dielectric properties than air may be used in the core or a vacuum can be created in the core for example when the structure forms part of a hermetic package. As a result a reduction in absorption from water vapor that would otherwise adsorb to the surfaces of the waveguides can be realized.

It should be noted that the coaxial waveguide microstructures described above are exemplary and other structures are envisioned. For example illustrate a further exemplary waveguide structure which employs a different center conductor support structure. The description above with respect to is generally applicable to this embodiment with differences being outlined below.

As shown in the conductor support members are formed by depositing a passivation layer over the base layer . The passivation layer is a material upon which the conductive material making up the waveguide walls and conductor does not deposit. Suitable materials for the passivation layer include for example a photodefinable dielectric such as a negative acting photoresist or photoepoxy which is not attacked by the sacrificial resist removal process to be conducted. The passivation layer may alternatively be also be a thinner version of the structural dielectric that is used to fill the gaps in subsequent step. The passivation layer can be formed by known methods such as spin coating roller coating or vapor deposition.

The passivation layer is next patterned using standard photolithography for photodefinable composition or photolithography and etching techniques to form passivation layer on which the center conductor supports are to be formed as illustrated in .

With reference to a photoresist layer is deposited over the base layer and passivation layer and is exposed and developed to form parallel channels for subsequent deposition of lower sidewall portions of the waveguide as described above and windows over the passivation layer where the conductor supports are to be formed. As shown in the lower sidewall portions of the waveguide are next formed as described above.

A dielectric material is next deposited over the substrate surface. The dielectric material may be any of those described above with reference to the support structures of the first exemplary waveguide microstructure. The material can be blanket deposited across the entire surface of the substrate followed by a planarization for example by CMP such that the dielectric material fills the windows over the exposed passivation material and is limited to those areas as illustrated in . The dielectric material can alternatively be selectively deposited in those areas by known techniques for example by spin coating screen printing resist plating or vapor deposition.

With reference to after deposition of a seed layer as a plating base a resist layer is deposited over the substrate and is exposed and developed to form patterns and for subsequent deposition of middle sidewall portions of the waveguide and the center conductor respectively as described above.

The middle sidewall portions and center conductor of the waveguide are next formed by depositing a suitable material into the channels formed by the resist as illustrated in . As shown the center conductor is formed on the conductor supports . As shown in the waveguide structure is completed as described above with respect to the previous exemplary embodiment.

For certain applications it may be beneficial to remove the final waveguide structure from the substrate to which it is attached. This would allow for coupling on both sides of the released interconnect network to another substrate for example a gallium arsenide die such as a monolithic microwave integrated circuit or other devices. Release of the structure from the substrate may be accomplished by various techniques for example by use of a sacrificial layer between the substrate and the base layer which can be removed upon completion of the structure in a suitable solvent. Suitable materials for the sacrificial layer include for example photoresists high temperature waxes and various salts.

In accordance with a further exemplary aspect of the invention the structures may be comprised of layers of structural photosensitive dielectric polymers such as resists that are metallized on their surfaces. In this case the thickness of the metallization can be determined by the skin depth requirements for the metals chosen at the frequencies of operation and may for example be from about 0.2 to 3 m for typical applications. Additional thickness and other metallic structures such as posts may be included for other reasons such as piping heat from any integrated active devices.

The waveguides of the invention typically are square in cross section. Other shapes however are envisioned. For example other rectangular waveguides can be obtained in the same manner the square waveguides are formed except making the width and height of the waveguides different. Rounded waveguides for example circular or partially rounded waveguides can be formed by use of gray scale patterning. Such rounded waveguides can for example be created through conventional lithography for vertical transitions and might be used to more readily interface with external micro coaxial conductors to make connector interfaces etc.

For certain applications it may be beneficial to include one or more coaxial type and hollow type waveguides on the same substrate. illustrate exemplary transition structures for connecting a coaxial waveguide to a hollow transmission type waveguide . Such transition can be accomplished through means known in the art such as creating a center conductor probe wherein one or more of the coaxial type waveguides terminates with short stubs into the hollow type waveguide structures. These transitions can occur between and within the layers. The distance d between the walls and the stub as may be adjusted to maximize the efficiency of these radiators.

Depending on the specific materials used for the waveguide structure and the substrate to be coupled with the structure it may be beneficial to provide a flexible or compliant interface between the two to compensate for coefficient of thermal expansion CTE mismatch. This can take the form for example of flexible fingers or posts perpendicular to the substrate or interface with narrow gaps between the fingers or posts allowing flexibility and compliance as needed. Other techniques include for example compliant and conductive bumps springs rings connected by posts or flex circuitry. illustrates a compliant interface in the form of a spring structure connecting a waveguide to a substrate .

Using such a technique the first layer built on a substrate can be for example a series of center conductors surrounded by circular or rectangular springs spaced with less than one quarter wave between the rings and connected with one or more spaced posts between the rings. Also rings may be made connected by short posts separated by a distance typically less than a quarter for example less than 1 10 of the wavelength at the highest frequency desired allowing spring like vertical connections for both compliance in connectors and to help deal with coefficient of thermal expansion CTE mismatch between these layers and other materials such as silicon and gallium arsenide.

Optionally the walls of the waveguide can be formed such that they are not continuous. The walls can for example be made of interconnected vias posts spirals or springs with the elements being spaced apart so as to minimize or prevent loss at the desired frequency. Typically this distance is less than of a wavelength at the desired frequency of operation for example less than 1 10 of such wavelength. Further optionally a combination of the above together with continuous walls may be used. For example the top and bottom walls may be planar and the vertical surfaces composed of interconnecting vias. Such wall structures can optionally be utilized throughout the interconnect substrate. Additional benefits of non continuous wall structures include one or more of the ability to make compliant structures that can better deal with CTE mismatch of integrated die or substrates better ability to remove the resist or obtain fluid flow in and from the substrate better tuned operating characteristics and compliance in interconnections and connectors.

With reference to a dielectric cap layer or membrane can optionally be formed over the end faces of the waveguide microstructure to protect the waveguide from dust and other contamination or to serve as a dielectric platform on the top or bottom surfaces to hybridly mount devices. In the exemplified structure the cap layer covers the outer periphery of the center conductor end surface and the inner periphery of the outer conductor end surface to allow electrical and thermal continuity while also protecting the waveguide from contamination. The cap layer can be formed for example by depositing the material for example by spin coating and patterning a photoimageable dielectric layer that remains. The material can be for example a photopatternable polymer that is relatively insoluble in the medium used to remove the resist from the final structure for example a photoresist. Vent holes not shown may be provided in the cap layer to prevent stress therein and to facilitate dissolution and removal of the resist in the core volume.

It may be desired to connect multiple waveguide structures together or to connect the waveguide structures to other structures for example when mating a wafer or device for example an RF device such as a microwave integrated circuit device a microwave component or other surface mount component as a temporary connection when testing the waveguide structure or when replacing parts. A number of interlocking geometries can be utilized to interconnect the waveguides with other waveguides or other components. For example overlapping tubes tubes and pins slots and keys for the outer conductor and inner conductor if present may be used for this purpose. illustrate three exemplary interlocking connection structures. illustrate two slot key connection structures. shows an overlapping tube connection structure in which the waveguide has a flared section at an end portion thereof such that that the flared section may be slid over an end portion of waveguide . The connection can be friction fit soldered and or may be held in place with other adhesive material. These structures can be formed during fabrication of the waveguides using standard photolithography techniques.

As shown in a thin layer of solder may be deposited by know means for example by electroplating or evaporation to facilitate bonding passive and or active devices to the waveguides or for bonding the waveguide structure to a different substrate. The solder can be deposited on any vertical or horizontal exposed face and before or after removal of the photoresist from the waveguide core volume.

One may also desire to coat the interior walls of the waveguide outer conductor and or the center conductor with a metal chosen for low loss at the frequencies used such as gold nickel copper nickel iron palladium platinum or gold or a combination of these metals such as nickel and gold. This can be accomplished for example by a plating process after removal of the sacrificial resist from the waveguide structure.

For certain applications it may be desired to form electrical feedthroughs in the substrate or otherwise form holes or structures in the substrate that aid in transmission and reception of propagating waves similar to the structure shown in . These features can be formed in the substrate for example by machining or other known patterning techniques. For example it is envisioned that horn antennas can be made part of the substrate for example as shown in by anisotropically etching a pit followed by metallization. The metallization step can optionally be conducted together with other steps in the sequential build process.

While the invention has been described in detail with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made and equivalents employed without departing from the scope of the claims.

