---

title: Method and device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network
abstract: Some embodiments of the invention relate to a method and a device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network. According to some embodiments of the invention, a plurality of computerize devices to be scanned may be provided. A plurality of threads of an agentless module may be provided for scanning the plurality of computerized devices. Each of the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be associated with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices. The plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized to configure a plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel and without using agents at least two of the plurality of remote computerized devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566939&OS=08566939&RS=08566939
owner: Promisec Ltd.
number: 08566939
owner_city: Tel Aviv
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20060404
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 226 451 filed on Sep. 15 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application further claims the benefit of the following US Provisional Applications U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 672 050 filed on Apr. 18 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 672 072 filed on Apr. 18 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 672 045 filed on Apr. 18 2005 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 672 046 filed on Apr. 18 2005 and also the benefit of an Israeli Patent Application No. IL164402 filed on Oct. 5 2004 which are all hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to the field of information security. More specifically the present invention relates to scanning of computerized devices connected to a network.

Information and digital information in particular is at the heart of most organizations today. Regrettably nowadays information systems are under constant threat and precious data is often at risk of being corrupted or being disclosed or even stolen by an unauthorized party. The financial ramifications of these risks are too great to be ignored. Unfortunately existing information security solutions are not able to provide a comprehensive solution enabling reliable and continuous protection against existing threats compromising the organizational data.

The reliance upon the Internet for carrying different kinds of communications both within the organizations networks and with the outside world public remote sites business partners etc. together with the introduction into the market and the proliferation of many sophisticated miniature storage devices e.g. USB attachable devices used as disks and other advanced technologies present new security challenges. Most existing IT security solutions are essentially improvements of existing solutions and are based on the assumption that threats come from external sources e.g. the Internet . Therefore most of the present IT security solutions regard entities within the organization s network as trusted whereas entities outside the organizations network are regarded as untrusted . The increasing amount of threats making use of simple means and methods for creating backdoors into the internal organizational network is evidence of a fundamental weakness of the peripheral defense approach which includes for example all existing gateway security products e.g. firewalls anti virus content inspection IDS IPS and other filters . Indeed world famous research groups recently estimated that over 80 of incidents of breaching organizational information security originate from inside an organization itself maliciously or due to lack of awareness therefore it is important to provide protection against external threats and internal ones e.g. employees contractors etc. and to provide security personnel with a solution allowing them to effectively monitor activities involving computers in internal networks for example monitoring compliance with information security policies and to enforce a security policy on these computers.

Attempts have been made to fill part of the security void described above. For example some existing solutions rely on agent applications which must be installed on each device which is to be scanned and then must be managed on each of the devices where it is installed. An agent based solution requires that each computerized device which is to be allowed to communicate with the organization s networks be installed with the appropriate agent application. The installations whether they are automatic semi automatic or manual require substantial human resources and may be quite time consuming. An agent installation on any number of servers and workstations may fail to operate without such failure being noticed causing a severe and undetected security breach.

A different group of information security tools includes various vulnerability scanners. Vulnerability scanners are typically used to detect unnecessary unauthorized services such as open ports for example and other vulnerabilities. Vulnerability scanners are normally not suitable for addressing all threats on the Operating System level as well as threats which operate on the application level.

When attending to the potential security threats on the computerized devices within the organization s network it is important to be able to provide a relatively short turnaround time so that if a potential threat develops or is created somewhere in the network it is dealt with before any serious damage is caused. For those threats which can potentially cause great damage within a very short period of time it is important to provide an efficient security solution having a relatively very short turnaround time. The number of computerized devices which need to be checked is in many cases quite large and the turnaround time of a centralized solution not depending on agents according to the prior art may not acceptable even if the number of threats being addressed is rather small. If in between cycles a computerized device is exposed to potential threats the network is not reasonably protected from serious damage due to security breaches.

US Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0097199 allegedly discloses a method and a system for scanning network devices connected to a network by detecting connection of a first network device to the network and performing remote scanning of the first network device in response to detection of the first network device. Publication 199 further allegedly discloses performing the scan without using agents. In publication 199 it is stated that there are numerous drawbacks associated with a scanning technique which is based upon a periodic remote scan of networked computers to discover and repair security threats and it is thus suggested to scan a networked computer in response to detection of the computer s connection or attachment to the network.

There is a need for a system method and device to enable efficient and robust scanning of a plurality of computerized devices without using agents. There is a need for a system method and device which enable efficient and robust periodic agentless scanning of a plurality of computerized devices. There is a need for a system method and device which enable efficient and robust scanning of a plurality of computerized devices and which provides a relatively short turnaround time with respect to the scanning of the plurality of computerized devices without using agents. There is a need for a system method and device which enable remote scanning of a plurality of remote computerized devices in parallel and without using agents. There is a further need for a system method and device which enable robust and efficient remote agentless and parallel scanning of a plurality of computerized devices at various times during their connection to the network.

There is a further need for a system method and device for enforcing a security policy in parallel on a plurality of computerized devices within a network and without using agents. The system method or device is required to enable automatic activation and or on demand activation and may operate either in conjunction with a preliminary scanning of the computerized devices or may be independent from data with respect to the current status of the computerized devices.

Some embodiments of the invention relate to a method of scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network. According to some embodiments of the invention a plurality of computerize devices to be scanned may be provided. A plurality of threads of an agentless module may be provided for scanning the plurality of computerized devices. Each of the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be associated with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices. The plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized to configure a plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel and without using agents at least two of the plurality of remote computerized devices.

According to further embodiments of the invention each of the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized to configure one or more remote access processes to scan a computerized device associated with the thread.

According to some embodiments of the invention the number of threads to be provided may be determined in accordance with a predefined criterion.

According to some embodiments of the invention each of the plurality of computerized devices to be scanned may be provided with data with respect to one or more data items to be scanned thereon and the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized to configure a plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel and without using agents at least two of the plurality of remote computerized devices in accordance with one or more data items associated with the computerized devices. According to some embodiments of the invention each thread of the agentless module may be associated with a data item to be scanned on a computerized device associated with the thread.

According to some embodiments of the invention scanning a computerized device comprises one or more of the following scanning the remote computerized device for data in respect of a data item associated therewith comparing data on a computerized device in respect of a data item in accordance with a security setting associated with the data item and updating data on a computerized device in respect of a data item in accordance with a security setting associated with the data item.

According to some embodiments of the invention a data item may be one from a group including a configuration an application a file a process a service a registry key a registry value.

According to some embodiments of the invention the initiation of a scanning of the plurality of computerized devices may be insensitive to a new attachment of any of the plurality of computerized devices to the network. According to further embodiments of the invention the initiation of a scanning of the plurality of computerized devices may be performed automatically in response to one or more of the following a completion of a previous scan an event occurring on a computerized device connected to the network a predefined schedule.

Further embodiments of the invention relate to a device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network. According to some embodiments of the invention the device may include a scanning module and an agentless module. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to provide data with respect to a plurality of computerized device to be scanned. The agentless module may be adapted to provide a plurality of threads. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to utilize the plurality of threads of the agentless module to configure a plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel and without using agents at least two of the plurality of remote computerized devices.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a method a system and a device for enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices within an organization s network. According to some embodiments of the invention a method of enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices within an organization s network may include designating a data item and an associated action for each of the plurality of computerized devices. A plurality of threads of an agentless module may be provided and each thread may be associated with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices and with at least a data item and an associated action designated for the computerized device. Each thread of the agentless module may be adapted to configure a remote access process in a manner to cause each of the remote computerized device s associated with the thread to perform the designated action in respect of data corresponding to the designated data item on the remote computerized device s contingent upon there being data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device or the lack thereof.

According to further embodiments of the invention a device for enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices within an organization s network may include an enforcement module and an agentless module. According to some embodiments of the invention the enforcement module may be adapted to receive data designating a data item and an associated action for each of the plurality of computerized devices. The agentless module may be adapted to provide a plurality of threads each thread being associated with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices and in respect of each computerized device with at least a data item and an associated action designated thereto. According to some embodiments of the invention each thread of the agentless module may be adapted configure a remote access process in a manner to cause each of the remote computerized device s associated with the thread to perform the designated action in respect of data corresponding to the designated data item on the remote computerized device s contingent upon there being data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device or the lack thereof.

According to still further embodiments of the invention a system for enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices within an organization s network may include a plurality of computerized devices and an operator s computer. According to some embodiments of the invention the operator s computer may include enforcement module and an agentless module. According to some embodiments of the invention the enforcement module may be adapted to receive data designating a data item and an associated action for each of the plurality of computerized devices. The agentless module may be adapted to provide a plurality of threads each thread being associated with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices and in respect of each computerized device with at least a data item and an associated action designated thereto. According to some embodiments of the invention each thread of the agentless module may be adapted configure a remote access process in a manner to cause each of the remote computerized device s associated with the thread to perform the designated action in respect of data corresponding to the designated data item on the remote computerized device s contingent upon there being data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device or the lack thereof.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining generating assigning or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Embodiments of the present invention may include apparatuses for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and capable of being coupled to a computer system bus.

The processes and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments of the present invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the inventions as described herein.

Throughout the specification and the claims the term computerized device or the like shall be used to mean any computer or computer like device with networking capabilities unless stated otherwise. According to some embodiments of the invention a computerized device includes but is not limited to a personal computer a server a network printer a wireless device a cellular telephone for example a Smartphone a digital personal assistant an access point a workstation a minicomputer a mainframe computer a network infrastructure device.

Throughout the specification and the claims the term network shall be used to mean any group of computerized devices connected together unless stated otherwise. Networks of computerized devices are well known. According to some embodiments of the invention a network may include but is not limited to the Internet and any portion thereof private networks virtual private networks VPNs etc. The computerized devices may be connected to the network via one or more of the following standard telephone lines LAN WAN links for example T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless connections or through any other known in the present or yet to be devised in the future network connection. In addition any suitable communication protocol may be used to enable the communication between the computerized devices within the network.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram illustration of a device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network according to some embodiments of the present invention. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention a device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network may include a scanning module and an agentless module . In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the scanning module may be operatively connected to the agentless module .

The scanning module may be adapted to provide a plurality of computerized devices to be scanned. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to provide for each of the computerized devices to be scanned identification data such as for example an IP address associated with the computerized device a host name associated with the computerized device or any other suitable identification. According to some embodiments of the invention the computerized devices to be scanned may be selected by a user for example by specifying a range of IP addresses to be scanned. According to further embodiments of the invention the list of computerized devices to be scanned may be obtained from other sources such as a prime domain controller PDC an active directory AD and or various kinds of files from which various data with respect to computerized devices to be scanned may be imported. According to further embodiments of the invention an operator of the device may utilize a user interface to select the computerized devices to be scanned for example from amongst the computerized devices provided by one or more of the sources mentioned above.

According to some embodiments of the invention a computerized device is to be scanned if it is in the list of computerized devices to be scanned. According to further embodiments of the invention the device is not aware of or sensitive to new attachments to the network for purposes of scanning the computerized device and particularly for purposes of initiating a scan of the computerized device nor is any of its components . According to some embodiments of the invention as part of scanning a computerized device and in order to verify that a computerized device is currently connected to the network one or more pings may be sent to the computerized device to verify that it is in communication with the network. The device is not sensitive not is it aware of a new attachment of a computerized device to the network and particularly does not trigger a scan in response to such a new attachment. Rather according to some embodiments of the invention the device may be adapted to initiate a scanning of a plurality of computerized devices periodically for example every certain amount of time. Such a scan may be performed in cycles and any single device may be scanned a plurality of times during its connection to the network. Scans may be initiated automatically for example substantially immediately after a previous scan is completed. Similarly according to further embodiments of the invention the device may be adapted to initiate a scanning of a plurality of computerized devices in response to an event occurring on a computerized device connected to the network during the connection of the device to the network. For example the device may be adapted to initiate a scanning of a plurality of computerized devices in response to an alert issued by an anti virus application with respect to a security threat located on a computerized device connected to the network. Again in accordance with these embodiments of the invention the scanning of the computerized devices is initiated while the computerized devices are connected to the network and the initiation of the scan is indifferent to a new attachment of a device to the network.

The scanning module may be adapted to utilize or otherwise activate a plurality of threads of the agentless module for example threads A C. According to some embodiments of the invention each of the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be adapted to configure a one or more remote access process . According to some embodiments of the invention each of the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be adapted to utilize or otherwise activate a remote access process for example one or more of remote access processes A C. According to some embodiments of the invention a remote access process includes any process which may be configured to scan one or more remote computerized devices without using agents. The remote access processes may include various and different types of application program interfaces APIs and or tailor made remote agentless scanning applications or hardware and may be integrated as part of the device or it may be external to the device . It should be noted that as part of some embodiments of the present invention each of the remote access processes may be adapted to utilize any known or tools yet to be devised in the future for questioning a remote computerized device including but not limited to various tools which are a part of some operating systems presently sold on the market. It should also be noted that some embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the use of any particular remote access process.

According to some embodiments of the invention each remote access process utilized by the agentless module to scan one or more computerized devices may be adapted to generate one or more remote queries and or remote commands and to utilize the communication interface to remotely scan the computerized device. According to further embodiments of the invention the communication interface may be used by a plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel and without using an agent a plurality of computerized devices. According to yet further embodiments of the invention one or more of the remote access processes utilized by the threads of the agentless module may be adapted to cause a remote computerized device being scanned to return data in connection with the scanning thereof. According to some embodiments of the invention scanning a computerized device may include at least obtaining data with respect to data on the computerized device as will be discussed in further detail below. According to further embodiments of the invention scanning may include additional activities with respect to data on the computerized device such as but not limited to comparing data on the computerized device with a corresponding target data and updating data on the computerized device in accordance with a corresponding target data as will be discussed in further detail below. An example of a process of comparing data on the computerized device with a corresponding target data according to some embodiments of the invention is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 226451 filed on Sep. 15 2005.

The scanning module may be adapted to associate each thread of the agentless module with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices to be scanned. The scanning module may be adapted to utilize the plurality of threads of the agentless module for example threads A C to configure for example automatically a plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel two or more of the plurality of remote computerized devices without using agents. According to further embodiments of the invention the questioning module may be adapted to configure each thread of the agentless module to utilize one or more remote access processes for example remote access processes A C to scan each of the one or more computerized devices assigned thereto.

As mentioned above according to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to utilize each of the plurality of threads of the agentless module to configure one or more remote access processes to scan one or more remote computerized devices for example to scan the computerized devices associated with the thread. The scanning module may be adapted to utilize each of the threads to automatically configure a remote access process to scan the computerized device s . According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to provide each thread with the necessary data to enable the thread to automatically configure the remote access process to scan the computerized device s as will be described in further detail below.

According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to utilize a plurality two or more of the threads of the agentless module to automatically configure and utilize a plurality two or more of remote access processes in a manner to cause two or more computerized devices to be scanned in parallel. According to some embodiments of the invention the threads of agentless module may be utilized in a manner to cause the plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel at least two of the plurality of remote computerized devices as part of scanning the plurality of computerized devices. According to further embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to utilize a plurality two or more of threads of the agentless module in parallel and according to still further embodiments of the invention the plurality two or more of threads of the agentless module may be utilized in a manner to automatically configure and utilize in parallel a plurality two or more of remote access processes . Thus according to some embodiments of the invention the device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network may enable the scanning of two or more computerized devices in parallel. According to some embodiments of the invention a plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized for enabling the scanning in parallel of a substantially large number of computerized devices. It would be appreciated that according to some embodiments of the invention utilizing a plurality of threads of the agentless module in a manner to enable parallel scanning of a substantially large number of computerized devices may provide a relatively short turnaround time for scanning the plurality of computerized devices. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to cause the scanning of the computerized devices to repeat the scanning of the plurality of computerized devices or of some of the plurality of computerized devices immediately upon completion of a previous scan or shortly thereafter. It would be appreciated that according to some embodiments of the invention a relatively short turnaround time for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to the network for example a large number of such devices combined with a relatively narrowly spaced apart scans high frequency may enable rapid detection of security threats and ongoing prevention activity etc. Furthermore according to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to correlate the results of the scan performed on the computerized devices and may thus be able to receive a snapshot of a threat developing within the network as well as a snapshot with respect to countermeasures activated against the threat.

According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to control some aspects of the scanning of the plurality of remote computerized devices. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to determine the number of threads of the agentless module which are to be used for configuring and utilizing the remote access processes . The scanning module may be adapted to determine the number of threads of the agentless module which are to be used in accordance with a predefined criterion or criteria . According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to determine the number of threads to be utilized for enabling the scanning of the computerized devices for example in accordance with one or more of the following a number of computerized devices to be scanned a network performance parameter a desired scanning speed a connection speed vis vis computerized devices to be scanned various characteristics of the computerized devices geographical location of the various computerized devices statistical data collected in respect of previous scans a result or results of a previous scan etc. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to manually provide the number of threads of the agentless module which are to be used for configuring and utilizing the remote access processes . As mentioned above according to some embodiments of the invention utilizing a large number of threads of the agentless module may enable a relatively large number of computerized devices to be scanned in parallel and may allow for a reduction in the turnaround time with respect to the scanning of the plurality of computerized devices.

According to some embodiments of the invention the number of threads of the agentless module to be utilized may be determined for each scan or the scanning module may be adapted to update the number of threads to be used only after a certain number of scans for example after a predetermined number of scans or in accordance with another example in response to various parameters associated with the scan for example in response to scan performance parameters. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be configured to use predefined numbers of threads for different and predefined kinds of scans and may be adapted to use a predefined number of threads for all scans belonging to a specific kind of scan which is associated with that number of threads.

According to some embodiments of the invention once the scanning module determines what number of threads of the agentless module to utilize in the process of scanning the plurality of computerized devices the scanning module may be adapted to invoke or otherwise activate the threads if necessary and may associate each thread with one or more of the plurality of computerized devices to be scanned. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to associate at least one of the threads of the agentless module with two or more computerized devices. The association of the computerized devices may be performed in accordance with a predefined criterion a or ad hoc for example in accordance with certain characteristics parameters or rules for example in accordance with certain characteristics parameters or rules associated with the computerized device in accordance with parameters associated with a connection to the computerized device in accordance with various characteristics of the computerized device for example type of hardware operating system geographical location of the various computerized device organizational location of the various computerized devices departments for example statistical data collected in respect of previous scans a result or results of a previous scan. According to some embodiments of the invention in alternative or in addition the association of the computerized devices may be sensitive to a scanning policy or policies a number of data items to be scanned a type of data items to be scanned however according to other embodiments of the invention the computerized devices may be substantially evenly divided amongst the available threads of the agentless module . In addition according to some embodiments of the invention a plurality of computerized devices to be scanned may be inserted to a queue and the scanning module may be adapted to assign computerized devices from the queue such that the next computerized device in the queue is assigned to the next available thread when it becomes available or to the next available thread which is relevant for scanning the next in queue computerized device for the data item that is to be scanned on that computerized device and or other criteria. Thus the scanning module may be adapted to assign a computerized device from the queue to a certain thread of the agentless module when the thread becomes available for example when the thread completes a configuration of an associated remote access process or when an associated remote access module becomes available. According to some embodiments of the invention as part of associating a computerized device with a thread of the agentless module the scanning module may be adapted to provide the thread with identification data in respect of the computerized device. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to re associate computerized devices to be scanned during a scan and may transfer a computerized device from one thread of the agentless module to another. The transfer of computerized devices during a scan may be preformed in accordance with a predefined criterion for example in accordance with the progress of the scan and or the load on each thread.

The thread s of the agentless module may include any necessary logic to enable it either alone or in cooperation with the scanning module to configure utilize and manage the operation of the remote access process es for scanning the computerized device s associated with the thread. The thread s of the agentless module either independently or in cooperation with the scanning module may be configured to determine when to utilize which remote access process to scan which computerized device. According to some embodiments of the invention the agentless module either independently or in cooperation with the scanning module may be adapted to implement various criteria to determine when to utilize which remote access process to scan which computerized device and may be adapted to utilize various queue management techniques for that purpose. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to configure the agentless module and any of its threads to repeat a scanning cycle after predetermined time periods at predetermined times etc. According to further embodiments of the invention the scan may also be initiated on demand for example by an operator. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to configure the agentless module and any of its threads to repeat a scanning cycle substantially immediately upon completion of a previous scanning cycle. According to further embodiments of the invention the threads of the agentless module may be configured to automatically perform a predefined number of scanning cycles consecutively. According to yet further embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to configure the agentless module and any of its threads to perform different kinds of scans consecutively. The agentless module may thus be configured to automatically perform a certain series of scans consecutively for example one kind of a scan substantially immediately after another kind of scan was completed. According to some embodiments of the invention each scan may be performed with respect to the same plurality of computerized devices or with respect to different computerized devices with some overlap between computerized devices or without any overlap.

According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to provide for each of the plurality of computerized devices to be scanned data with respect to a data item one or more to be scanned thereon. The scanning module may be adapted to utilize the plurality of threads of the agentless module to configure the plurality of remote access processes to scan the plurality of computerized devices in accordance with the data items associated with each computerized device. According to some embodiments of the invention the data items to be scanned on a computerized device may be provided manually for example via a user interface selected from a database including a list of data items or in any other way. According to further embodiments of the invention one or more of the data items to be scanned on a computerized device may be predefined data items which the scanning module may be configured for example to cause to be scanned as part of each scanning of the computerized device. In accordance with further embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to cause different data items to be scanned as part of different scans.

According to some embodiments of the invention a data item may relate to a specific data on a remote computerized device. According to further embodiments of the invention a data item is one of a group which includes but is not limited to a file or an application on a remote computerized device a process or a service on a remote computerized device and a registry key on a remote computerized device. Examples of data items include for instance a configuration file on a remote computerized device a software patch or the lack thereof an anti virus application a registry key associated with a removable mass storage device a process which is associated with a security vulnerability while active a process which is associated with a security vulnerability while inactive. According to some embodiments of the invention a computerized device may be scanned for a plurality of data items substantially in parallel and without using agents.

According to some embodiments of the invention a data item may be part of a security policy implemented by the scanning module . A security policy may include a plurality of data items which are to be scanned on a plurality of remote computerized devices. The scanning module may be adapted to implement a plurality of security policies for example different security policies may be implemented in respect of different groups of computerized devices. According to some embodiments of the invention as part of implementing a security policy the scanning module may be adapted to configure and utilize a plurality of threads of the agentless module to configure a plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel and without using agents a plurality of computerized devices in accordance with a security policy associated with the plurality of computerized devices.

According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to provide in respect of each data item one or more of the following a path to the data item on a remote computerized device a file name associated with the data item a registry key associated with the data item a registry key value associated with the data item registry key data associated with the data item a process an application or a service name associated with the data item a security threat with which the data item is associated associated data items for example data items associated with a common security threat data with respect to the severity of the security threat with which the data item is associated a scanning priority associated with the data item an action to be taken in respect of the data item a condition for implementing an action in respect of the data item etc. The scanning module may be adapted to use the data in respect of each data item to configure each of the plurality of threads of the agentless module in a manner to enable each thread to configure and utilize a remote access process es for scanning the remote computerized device for the data item in accordance with the data in respect thereof.

For example the device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network may enable to remotely scan in parallel and without using agents a plurality of computerized devices two or more for an antivirus application installed and activated on a remote computerized device. In accordance with a further example the device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network may enable to remotely scan in parallel and without using agents a plurality of computerized devices two or more for a file sharing application on a computerized device. As will be discussed in further detail below the device may be adapted to remotely deactivate the file sharing application on a plurality of computerized devices two or more in parallel and without using an agent and may be adapted in addition to disable and or remove the file sharing application from the plurality of computerized devices in parallel and without using agents. In accordance with another example of the invention the device may be adapted to install a patch on a plurality of computerized devices two or more connected to a network in parallel and without using agents. In accordance with yet another example the device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network may enable to remotely scan in parallel and without using agents a plurality of computerized devices two or more for a registry key or a specific combination of registry keys on a remote computerized device which is are associated with a removable mass storage device which is currently attached or which was previously attached to the computerized device. According to some embodiments of the invention in response to an instruction to prevent a certain security threat on a plurality of computerized devices the scanning module may be adapted to automatically determine the data items associated with the security threat and may be further adapted to utilize a plurality of threads of the agentless module to configure a plurality of remote access processes in a manner to cause two or more of the plurality of computerized devices to be scanned in parallel and without using agents for the data items associated with the security threat.

According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may be adapted to provide for one or more data items a predefined security setting to enable auditing or updating a remote computerized device in accordance with the predefined security setting. According to some embodiments of the invention a security policy implemented enforced by the scanning module may include a security setting for each data item included in the security policy. According to some embodiments of the invention the scanning module may provide for a data item a security setting associated with the data item. The scanning module may be adapted to provide the security setting to a thread of the agentless module associated with the data item to which the security setting relates.

According to some embodiments of the invention a scanning module may be adapted to utilize a thread of the agentless module to configure one or more remote access processes to audit a specific data item on a remote computerized device without using an agent in accordance with a security setting associated with the data item. According to further embodiments of the invention a scanning module may be adapted to utilize a plurality of threads of the agentless module to configure a plurality two or more of remote access processes to audit one or more specific data items on a plurality two or more of remote computerized devices in parallel and without using an agent. Each data item may be audited in accordance with a security setting associated with the data item. According to some embodiments of the invention a scanning module may be adapted to utilize a thread of the agentless module to configure one or more remote access processes to update a specific data item on a remote computerized device without using an agent in accordance with a security setting associated with the data item. According to further embodiments of the invention a scanning module may be adapted to utilize a plurality of threads of the agentless module to configure a plurality two or more of remote access processes to update one or more specific data items on a plurality two or more of remote computerized devices in parallel and without using an agent. Each data item may be updated in accordance with a security setting associated with the data item. It would be appreciated that according to some embodiments of the invention auditing the computerized devices and updating the computerized devices may be used to achieve compliance with a predefined administrative security policy. According to some embodiments of the invention a security policy may include data items and security settings which are part of a black list and or data items and security setting which are part of a white list . A list which includes data items and or security setting in respect of certain data items which are allowed is referred to here by the term white list . A white list may be used to specify prohibited data items and or prohibited security settings by specifying anything outside the white list as such.

According to some embodiments of the invention as a result of the scanning of the plurality of computerized devices a report may be generated based upon the results of the scan. The report may include processed results or it may include the data as it was received from the computerized devices. According to further embodiments of the invention the report may include only data which may be indicative of a security threat. The report may include additional data with respect to the security threat such as for example data with respect to various characteristics of the threat. According to further embodiments of the invention the results may be returned to the device for analysis and the device may automatically initiate actions in response to certain results. For example the device may be adapted to initiate remedial actions in connection with a detected security threat. According to some embodiments of the invention the data with respect to the action to be performed may be provided manually for example by an operator of the device or automatically. According to further embodiments of the invention the remedial actions may be part of a subsequent remote scan of a plurality of computerized device. According to further embodiments of the invention the subsequent remote scan may be initiated automatically for example in response to the results of the previous scan. According to yet further embodiments of the invention the subsequent remote scan may be performed in parallel and without using an agent on at least two computerized devices connected to the network.

In the above description of some embodiments of the invention reference is made to a scanning module an agentless module capable of providing a plurality of threads and remote access processes. It would be appreciated that according to further embodiments of the invention two or more of the components discussed herein and specifically the scanning module the agentless module capable of providing a plurality of threads and the remote access processes may be combined into a single element. Accordingly some embodiments of the invention relate to an element whose functionality substantially corresponds to the functionality described herein with respect to two or more of the following the scanning module the agentless module capable of providing a plurality of threads and the remote access processes.

It should be noted that further details with respect to various embodiments of the invention may be obtained from U.S. application Ser. No. 11 226 451 filed on Sep. 15 2005 with respect to which the present application is a Continuation In Part.

It would be further appreciated that according to some embodiments of the invention the device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network and any of its components may be implemented in hardware software and any combination thereof.

Reference is now additionally made to which is a block diagram illustration of a typical network of an organization including a device for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network. In and according to some embodiments of the invention the network is shown to be comprised of a plurality of local area networks LANs connected together using different types of connections for example dedicated lines the Internet forming a wide area network WAN which may serve for example two or more different locations or branches of the organization. It should be noted that the present invention is not limited to any particular network architecture or topology and that rather in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention any group of computerized devices forming a network may be scanned using the device .

As part of some embodiments of the present invention the device may be connected to the network . For example as is shown in and according to some embodiments of the invention the device may be part of one of the LANs and may be operatively connected to the WAN and to the computerized devices connected to WAN including computerized devices which are at least partially under the control of the organization s network administrator s .

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the device may be operatively coupled to or may include a communication module . The communication module may be for example a Network Interface Card NIC of an operator s computer to which the device may be operatively coupled. However according to further embodiments of the invention the device may include an integrated communication module. According to some embodiments of the invention the communication module may be configured to enable the device to communicate with at least some and typically all of the computerized devices connected to the network .

It will also be understood that a system according to the invention may be a suitably programmed computer. Likewise the invention contemplates a computer program being readable by a computer for executing the method of the invention. The invention further contemplates a machine readable memory tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine for executing the method of the invention. The computer program product may include a computer useable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein for scanning a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network the computer program product comprising a computer readable program code for causing the computer to provide a plurality of computerize devices to be scanned a computer readable program code for causing the computer to provide a plurality of threads of an agentless module and associating each thread of the agentless module with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices and a computer readable program code for causing the computer to utilize the plurality of threads of the agentless module to configure a plurality of remote access processes to scan in parallel and without using agents at least two of the plurality of remote computerized devices.

Provided below is a description of specific embodiments of the invention which relates to enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices. The embodiments described below provide an example of possible implementation of some embodiments of the invention. Turning now to there is shown a block diagram illustration of a device for enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network according to some embodiments of the invention. In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention a device for enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network may include an enforcement module and an agentless module . In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the enforcement module may be operatively connected to the agentless module .

The enforcement module may be adapted to provide a plurality of computerized devices on which a security policy is to be enforced. According to some embodiments of the invention the security policy may be predefined or may be specifically defined for one or more enforcement cycles. According to some embodiments of the invention the enforcement module may be adapted to invoke or otherwise activate and utilize a plurality of threads of the agentless module for example threads A C in a manner to cause a plurality of remote access processes to update in parallel and without using agents two or more of the plurality of computerized devices in accordance with the security policy.

According to some embodiments of the invention a security policy may include data in respect of one or more data items and a security setting s associated with the data items. In accordance with further embodiments of the invention the security policy may include any data which may be necessary in order to enable a remote access process to update the data on a computerized device connected to the network in accordance with the security setting. For example according to some embodiments of the invention the security policy may include a data item and data in respect of a certain action which is to be preformed in case a computerized device is not in compliance with the security policy associated with the specific item. According to further embodiments of the invention a security policy may include data in respect of one or more of the following an application a file a process a service a registry key registry value or a registry value. A list of data items to be enforced on one more computerized devices may include one more black lists and or one or more white lists .

As mentioned above the enforcement module may be adapted to utilize a plurality of threads of the agentless module . Each of the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be adapted to utilize a remote access process to enable to update the data on the plurality of computerized devices in accordance with the security policy as necessary. According to some embodiments of the invention as part of utilizing a remote access process a thread of the agentless module may be adapted to configure the remote access process being utilized to cause without using agents one or more remote computerized devices associated with the thread to perform a designated action in respect of a designated data item with which the designated action is associated. Further according to some embodiments of the present invention as part of implementing the security policy a plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized to configure a plurality of remote access processes to update without using agents a plurality of computerized devices in accordance with the security policy as necessary. According to some embodiments of the invention the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized such that two or more of the computerized devices are updated in accordance with the security policy in parallel without using agents. According to further embodiments of the invention the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized in a manner to cause without using agents two or more remote computerized devices to perform in parallel a designated action in respect of data items located thereon. According to yet further embodiments of the invention the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized in a manner to cause without using agents two or more remote computerized devices to perform in parallel an action in respect of different data items located thereon and possibly also different actions .

According to some embodiments of the invention a remote access process may be any process which is adapted to cause a remote computerized device to perform a designated action with respect to a designated data item on the remote computerized device without using agents. According to further embodiments of the invention a remote access process may be any process which is adapted to cause a remote computerized device to update a data item on the remote computerized device in accordance with a security policy for example a predefined security policy or a ad hoc security policy and without using agents. The device may be associated with at least two but possibly with more remote access processes or with a plurality of threads of a remote access process . As part of some embodiments of the invention the remote access process may be generated by the device itself or may be provided by a computerized device with which the device or on which the device is implemented. For example the remote access processes may be provided by an operating system running on an operator s computerized device .

It would be appreciated that as part of the present invention in some cases although an instruction from a remote access process is received at a remote computerized device to perform a certain action with respect to data corresponding to a certain data item for example an instruction to update the data item the action may be inapplicable due to the actual status of the data corresponding to the data item on the remote computerized device being compliant with the security policy. For example if a remote computerized device is instructed by a remote access process utilized by the device to delete certain data from the registry on the computerized device and the registry on the remote computerized device does not contain such data in the first place the action may be inapplicable. It would be further appreciated that if an instruction is received at a remote computerized device to perform a certain action with respect to data corresponding to a certain data item and the action is not applicable for example due to the actual status of the data corresponding to the data item the remote computerized device may generate an exception message. According to some embodiments of the invention if an exception message is generated on a remote computerized device in response to instruction received from a remote access process utilized by the device the message may be resolved locally for example it is ignored . The handling of the message by the computerized devices may include ignoring the message collecting and storing data with respect to the messages analyzing the messages and data with respect to the messages etc.

Thus according to some embodiments of the invention each thread of the agentless module may be adapted to utilize one or more remote access process operable to cause one or more remote computerized devices to perform a designated action in respect of data item with which the designated action is associated contingent upon there being certain data corresponding to the designated data item such as a registry key on the computerized device or contingent upon the lack of such data on the computerized device. Further according to some embodiments of the present invention at least two threads of the agentless module may be used to configure two or more remote access processes to cause two or more remote computerized devices to perform a designated action in respect of a designated data item with which the designated action is associated contingent upon there being certain data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device or contingent upon the lack of data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device. According to still further embodiments of the present invention at least two threads of the agentless module may be used to configure two or more remote access processes in a manner to cause two or more remote computerized devices to perform a designated action in respect of a designated data item with which the designated action is associated in parallel and without using agents contingent upon there being certain data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device or contingent upon the lack of data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device.

The enforcement module may be adapted to associate each thread of the agentless module with one or more of the computerized devices on which the security policy is to be enforced so that each thread of the agentless module is associated with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices on which the security policy is to be enforced. It would be appreciated that dividing the plurality of computerized devices on which the security policy is to be enforced amongst the plurality of threads of the agentless module may enable the enforcement of the security policy on a plurality of computerized devices in parallel and without using agents.

It should be noted that according to some embodiments of the invention the computerized devices on which the security policy is to be enforced may include all the computerized devices connected to an organization s network or only some of the computerized devices connected to the organization s network which have been selected to undergo the policy enforcement described herein. In accordance with further embodiments of the invention the list of computerized devices on which a security policy is to be enforced may be predetermined and predefined and may include up to all the computerized devices within the organization s network . However according to other embodiments of the invention not necessarily all the computerized devices connected to an organization s network are to undergo the policy enforcement. According to further embodiments of the invention the list of computerized devices which are to undergo policy enforcement may be modified from time to time.

According to some embodiments of the invention as part of selecting the computerized devices on which a security policy is to be enforced data with respect to the computerized devices connected to the organization s network may be obtained from an organizational prime domain controller PDC or from an organizational active directory AD for example. The data is obtained to determine which computerized devices can be acted upon and not for triggering the security policy enforcement. Further as part of providing the computerized devices on which a security policy is to be enforced an operator of the device may utilize the user interface to select from amongst the computerized devices connected to the organization s network which computerized devices are to undergo the policy enforcement. In accordance with further embodiments of the invention the data with respect to the computerized devices on which a security policy is to be enforced may be obtained from a file containing suitable data. It should be appreciated that several security policies may be created and each security policy may be enforced on a different group of computerized devices.

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the enforcement module may be adapted to determine what number of threads of the agentless module to create and or utilize. The selection of the number of threads to be created and or utilized was discussed above. According to one embodiment of the present invention the enforcement module may be preconfigured to utilize one of several pre selected numbers of threads of the agentless module pending an appropriate selection and an operator of the device may select the desired number of threads of the agentless module to be used as part of the enforcement process. For example different numbers of threads may be associated with different enforcement speeds and the operator may determine the number of threads to be used or to be invoked by selecting the desired operation speed for example very slow slow medium high and very high . According to further embodiments of the present invention a fixed number of threads of the agentless module may be created. It would be appreciated that some embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect.

The enforcement module may be adapted to determine which of the plurality of computerized devices is to be assigned to which thread of the agentless module as was discussed above. For example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the enforcement module may be configured to substantially evenly divide the specified computerized devices between all the threads of the agentless module which are to be utilized. In accordance with further embodiments of the present invention the computerized devices may be divided amongst the threads of the agentless module in accordance with predefined rules and or based upon predefined criteria or parameters. However the present invention is not limited in this respect and the enforcement module may be configured to otherwise determine which of the computerized devices is to be assigned to which thread of the agentless module .

In addition with respect to each computerized device the enforcement module may be adapted to associate the thread of the agentless module with which a computerized device is associated with a data item which is part of the security policy associated with the computerized device. According to further embodiments of the invention the enforcement module may be adapted to associate the thread of the agentless module with which a computerized device is associated with a predefined action to be performed on the computerized device with respect to a data item which is part of the security policy associated with the computerized device. According to some embodiments of the invention in case more than one data item is designated for a computerized device and the enforcement module associates the computerized device with a single thread of the agentless module the enforcement module will associate the thread with all the data items and corresponding actions which were designated for that computerized device however in case the enforcement module associates the computerized device with two or more threads the designated data items may be divided amongst the threads with which the computerized device is associated.

Each thread of the agentless module may be adapted to utilize a remote access process as was discussed above. According to some embodiments of the invention two or more of the remote access processes utilized by the threads of the agentless module may be operable to cause without using agents a plurality two or more of remote computerized devices to perform an action in parallel with respect to at least a data item. According to some embodiments of the invention the agentless module may include the necessary logic needed to enable two or more threads of the agentless module to configure and utilize at least two remote access processes to cause without using agents two or more computerized devices to perform in parallel a designated action with respect to at least a designated data item.

It would be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that according to some embodiments of the invention using a plurality of threads of the agentless module to utilize in parallel a plurality of remote access processes may enable to perform without using agents a designated action in parallel on a plurality of remote computerized device with respect to data corresponding to a designated data item or items. According to other embodiments of the invention the plurality of threads of the agentless module may be utilized in a manner to cause remote access processes to be utilized in a manner to cause two or more computerized devices to perform without using agents a designated action with respect to a data item or data items in parallel.

According to some embodiments of the invention a plurality of threads of the agentless module may be adapted to configure and utilize a plurality of remote access processes to cause a plurality of remote computerized device s associated with the threads to perform a designated action with respect to a data item with which the action is associated contingent upon there being data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device or contingent upon the lack of data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device.

As part of some embodiments of the present invention each remote access process may be utilized in a manner to generate at least a command for each computerized device associated with the thread of the agentless module used to utilize the remote access process. Each command may be effective for causing the remote computerized device to perform without using an agent a designated action with respect to a data item on the computerized device contingent upon there being data corresponding to the data item on the computerized device or contingent upon the lack of such data on the computerized device. According to some embodiments of the invention at least two remote access processes may be utilized in a manner to generate at least two commands intended to cause each of at least two computerized devices to perform substantially in parallel and without using agents a designated action with respect to a data item contingent upon there being data corresponding to the data item on the computerized device or contingent upon the lack of certain data in respect of the data item on the computerized device.

One example of a remote access process which may be used by the device and specifically by a plurality of threads of the agentless module to cause a plurality of computerized devices to perform a certain action with respect to at least a designated data item with which the action is associated includes various kinds of application programming interfaces APIs . It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that various remote access processes including various APIs may be an integrated component of some operating systems sold on the market however other APIs may also be used. In accordance with further embodiments of the present invention the threads of the agentless module may be configured to utilize various other APIs in a manner to cause without using an agent a remote computerized device to perform a designated action with respect to designated data items with which the designated actions are associated including but not limited to APIs capable of causing a remote computerized device to add and or remove an application APIs capable of causing a remote computerized device to invoke terminate a process on the computerized device s APIs capable of causing a remote computerized device to start stop a service APIs capable of updating writing into or deleting from a registry of the computerized device.

In order to enable a remote access process to cause a remote computerized device to perform a designated action in respect of a designated data item such as a registry key for example to enable it to update a certain data item each thread of the agentless module may be adapted to provide a remote access process with the necessary data with respect to a computerized device a designated data item and an associated action to be preformed with respect to the data item on the computerized device. In case a plurality of computerized devices are associated with a certain thread of the agentless module the thread may provide the network address of each of the computerized devices associated with the thread to the relevant remote access process es for enabling it to update the relevant data items on the computerized devices. However further embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect and the computerized device on which the security policy is to be enforced may be otherwise identified including but not limited to by their host names.

According to some embodiments of the invention the data items associated with the security policy may be selected automatically for example based upon statistical data collected during previous scans of computerized devices connected to the network or in addition or as an alternative one or more data items may be designated manually for example by an operator of the device . The device may include a user interface through which the operator can provide the necessary data in respect to the data items. The operator may utilize the user interface to provide data regarding an action to be performed as part of the security policy with respect to a designated data item or the action to be performed in respect to a data item may be provided automatically. The device may also include a database or any other data structure which includes data with respect to data items and the data items to be included in the security policy may be selected automatically and or manually from the database . The database may further include data with regard to actions which may be performed with respect to the data items and the actions to be performed on the data items included in the security policy may be selected from the database automatically and or manually.

Reference is now made to which is a an illustration of an exemplary database including data with respect to data items and data with respect to action which may be used to configure a threads of the agentless module according to some embodiments of the invention. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the data stored in the database may be but is not necessarily associated with security threats. According to further embodiment of the invention the data in the database may be associated with various applications services processes registry keys values and or hardware devices which may pose a potential security threat when enabled active and or installed on a computerized device connected to the organization s network and should therefore be disabled de activated and or uninstalled and or the data in the database may be associated with various applications services processes registry keys values and or hardware devices which may protect the organization network from security threats and which therefore need to be installed activated and enabled on a computerized device in order to prevent potential security threats.

Reference is now made to which is an lustration of a portion of a table which may be used in accordance with some embodiments of the invention for enabling enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network. In the database includes data with respect to a registry key a process and a file not shown which are associated with the same application in this case ICQTM an instant messaging application. For each of the registry key process and file associated with the ICQTM application the database includes data with respect to an action which is to be performed in respect of the corresponding data item. In according to the security policy ICQTM is not allowed. Thus with respect to the registry key associated with ICQTM the database includes a remove action which is intended to enable the configuration of a remote access process to cause a remote computerized device to remove without using agent the data of registry key or the entire registry key with which the remove action is associated contingent upon there being data with respect to the registry key in the registry of the remote computerized device. With respect to the process associated with ICQTM the database includes a terminate action which is intended to enable the configuration of a remote access process to cause a remote computerized device to terminate without using agents the process with which the terminate action is associated contingent upon the designated process being active on the remote computerized device.

The database may also include data with respect to a certain file not shown associated with ICQTM for example and an action with respect to the file. For example the file may be an uninstall file which is intended to remove the ICQTM application from a computerized device and the action may be a run or execute action which is intended to enable the configuration of a remote access process to cause without using agents a remote computerized device to execute the uninstall file contingent upon there being an appropriate uninstall file on the remote computerized device.

In exemplary the database shown in there is also included data with respect to a registry key which is associated with a wireless communication modem and an action associated with the registry key . The action associated with the registry key is intended to enable the configuration of a remote access process to cause without using agents a remote computerized device to modify data in the remote computerized device s registry which corresponds to the registry key such that a wireless communication device associated with the computerized device is disabled. In the case of registry key the hardware device associated with the registry key is disabled by modifying the data corresponding to the registry key rather than by deleting the registry key.

Also included in the database shown in and according to some embodiments of the invention a data item correlated with a process associated with an anti virus application is provided as well as an action associated with the data item . The action associated with data item is intended to enable the configuration of a remote access process to cause without using agents a remote computerized device to activate the process associated with data item on the remote computerized device.

According to some embodiments of the invention the database may include any additional data which may be necessary to enable a thread of the agentless module to utilize a remote access process to cause without using agents a remote computerized device to perform a designated action with respect to a designated data item with which the designated action is associated. For example in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the database may include for a certain data item data with respect to a location on a computerized device where data corresponding to the data item is expected to be found. Such data may be provided to the remote access process to provide the remote access process with data in respect of the location of the data item on a remote computerized device. The data with respect to a location on a computerized device where data corresponding to a data item is expected to be found may include a path s to a specific location s on a computerized device which is associated with the data item.

In each data item is associated with a certain subject. Each subject may provide a description with respect to an application a service a registry key value and or hardware device associated with the subject. Each subject may be associated with one or more data items. For example in database registry key . process and file or application not shown are associated with the ICQTM subject registry key is associated with a 802.11x compatible hardware device subject and process is associated with the Antivirus subject .

Reference is now additionally made to which is a flow chart illustration of a method of enforcing a security policy on a plurality of computerized devices connected to a network according to some embodiments of the present invention. Initially a plurality of computerized devices may be provided for undergoing policy enforcement block . For each of the computerized devices which are to undergo policy enforcement a data item and an associated action may be designated block . As mentioned above according to further embodiments of the invention for a computerized device which is to undergo policy enforcement or for a group of such computerized devices several data items may be designated.

Next a plurality of threads of an agentless module may be utilized block . According to some embodiments of the invention the number of threads of the agentless module provided for enforcing the security policy may be predefined. According to further embodiments of the invention the number of threads which may be provided may be dynamic and may depend upon for example the number of computerized devices selected for undergoing policy enforcement the number of data items which have been designated current network performance parameters as well as on other parameters rules characteristics. The plurality of threads of the agentless module may be generated on demand based upon what was determined with respect to the number of threads to be used. The enforcement module may be configured to determine what number of threads is to be provided in accordance with predefined criteria and based upon one or more parameters rules or characteristics.

Each of the threads of the agentless module may be associated with at least one of the plurality of computerized devices and in respect of each computerized device with at least a data item and an associated action designated thereto block . According to some embodiments of the invention the computerized devices may be associated with the plurality of threads of the agentless module in accordance with a predefined criterion a as was discussed above.

After the computerized devices and their designated data items and associated action are associated with the plurality of threads of the agentless module each thread may be configured to utilize a remote access process es . The threads may be configured to utilize the remote access processes to cause the computerized device s associated with the remote access process to perform at least a designated action with respect to at least a designated data item with which the designated action is associated contingent upon there being data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized devices or contingent upon the lack of data corresponding to the designated data item on the computerized device block .

It would be appreciated that some embodiments of the invention allow an organization to enforce a certain security policy on a plurality of computerized devices in parallel and without being dependant on agents substantially as described above. It would therefore be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that some embodiments of the invention may provide substantial advantages. For example an administrator utilizing a device in accordance with some embodiments of the invention may be capable of enforcing a certain security policy on a plurality of computerized devices in parallel and without being dependent on agents so that the turnaround time needed to complete a full enforcement cycle with respect to the potential threats which are being addressed by the device is kept relatively short while credibility is at a relatively high level no agents are used . According to some embodiments of the invention security policy enforcement cycle may be routinely performed around the clock for example or it may be in response to predefined events or criteria or manually initiated in which case the security enforcement scan may also be repeated several times or it may be performed in several scanning enforcement cycles. However it should be noted that some embodiments of the invention are not limited by any particular performance attributes or parameters nor is it limited to any particular credibility quality or level.

While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true scope of the invention.

