---

title: Self-contained mini-applications system and method for digital television
abstract: A system, method and software program is provided for creating and implementing self-contained mini-applications that store, retrieve and display data and allow user interaction in a constrained computing environment such as a set-top box used in the delivery of digital television. The system, method and software program of the present invention, also known as “TV widgets” allows users to personalize data and facilitate the access of such data with a click of a button from a remote control unit. The TV widgets include a myriad of widgets of which some are, “My 8 ball”, a widget that recommends television programming to a viewer, “My TV search” for searching specific television programs, “My Weather”, “My Yellow Pages”, “Smart Navigation”, “Instant Messaging with Smart User Interface”, as well as others. A TV widget framework provides user interface context for launching and managing the widgets, in addition, it maintains a library code that implements the TV widget components. Among the implementations of the TV widgets is a widget based TV navigator created as a collection of widgets from conventional grid guides and navigators that include a grid guide widget, a “what's on now” widget (sorted by channel), a movie recommendation widget among others.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510779&OS=08510779&RS=08510779
owner: Fourthwall Media, Inc.
number: 08510779
owner_city: Sterling
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060915
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 716 928 entitled Self contained Mini applications Apparatus and Method for Digital Television .

The invention relates generally to the field of interactive television systems. Embodiments may include a method and a software program execution apparatus for providing a new application model and graphical user interface in an interactive television system. Embodiments may also include a collection of small independent mini applications or widgets in place of the traditional monolithic software application model currently used in the interactive television space.

While user interfaces are vastly more user friendly now than in recent years the current television navigation systems are still too cumbersome poorly organized and tend to overwhelm a viewer with too much irrelevant information and not enough useful information. Current systems often require too many manipulations of remote control buttons to accomplish simple tasks. Because of this unnecessary complexity many people will not be able to gain access to the vast array of interactive television available now and in the future.

Cable and satellite television providers and the telecommunication industry have taken advantage of computer and communication advancements by providing an ever increasing array of services to their customers. Primarily recent advancements in fiber optic and digital transmission technology have enabled the television provider industry to increase channel capacity and provide some degree of interactive television service. This advancement is due in large part to the industry combining the processing power of a computer in the form of a cable set top box and cable s large capacity to carry information. Such cable boxes have successfully been used by the industry to provide both a greater selection of channels and some degree of interactivity. However today s on screen applications are often non intuitive clumsy or difficulty to operate.

A widget is a generic term with a variety of meanings assigned to it over the years. Herein however the term widget self contained mini application is interchangeably used in this application denotes a tightly integrated collection of procedures data and a graphical user interface GUI dedicated to a single well defined task. And a TV widget is a widget designed to run in an interactive television environment. In other words a TV widget is a mini application that provides a single service. For example a small window that displays the current weather over top of the video on TV is a TV widget. TV widgets differ from traditional interactive television applications that traditionally bundle many services into a single application in that each widget implements a single feature or service of a traditional application as a separate independent mini application. Examples of applications that are not widgets include 1 the traditional TV navigator including in one application a an interactive guide for finding TV programs in a two dimensional time vs. channel grid b video on demand program access c channel banners d parental controls e and other services and 2 news and information applications that aggregate on one screen information about news headlines stock quotes weather traffic sports scores etc.

While TV widgets that form part of certain embodiments of the present invention are not prior art prior art related to widgets includes 

Some of the drawbacks of widgets as they relate to television lie in the PC style application model that is not well suited to the TV viewing context. As such a less intrusive easier to understand model is needed. Another problem is that there are insufficient computing resources memory and CPU in existing TV set top boxes to run either large applications or Konfabulator style widgets as seen on the desktop. In addition desktop computer mechanisms for downloading integrating and executing widgets generally do not work on the TV environment. Even if sufficient computing resources were available there is no mechanism to download and invoke a Konfabulator widget in today s interactive TV environment.

Accordingly a need exists for a method to facilitate a variety of application features and services on television including recommendation of programming personalized multi media content and navigational aids via a multitude of widgets to effect a visually appealing interaction with the GUI and more effectively access all the available viewer desired information.

The method and system of the present invention provides to users self contained mini applications known as TV Widgets that hold data and allow user interaction for use in constrained computing environments such as a set top box for use in a television medium to be displayed on user s TV screen as needed. TV widgets allow viewers to personalize data and allow the access of the data with a click of a button from a remote control unit. The TV widgets include a myriad of widgets which include but not limited to widgets such as My 8 ball a widget that recommends television programming to a viewer My TV search another widget for searching specific television programs My Weather a widget that displays weather conditions of localities My Yellow Pages a widget that retrieves and displays information about businesses Smart Navigation and Instant Messaging with Smart Text Input. 

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a system and method creates and implements self contained mini applications for digital television where the self contained mini applications are defined as a source code program written in a computer language e.g. C SPLAT that may import graphics files and other required data and stored in a library source code. The source code program is transferred to a compiler to be translated into a bytecode format suitable for execution on target virtual machine VM that implements a bytecode interpreter which is comprehensible for interactive television applications. The system and method of the present invention further transforms the byte code into a JAVA byte code suitable for a JAVA virtual machine when a middleware is employed otherwise the bytecode is transformed into a JAVA sub set byte code suitable for a target virtual machine when other applications are to be presented. The system and method then maps a canonical set of internal application programming interfaces APIs used by individual applications such as PiTV eBay on TV Fantasy sports as well as other interactive applications into the APIs of the operating system resident application or middleware to create self contained mini applications i.e. TV widgets that are displayed on a television allowing users to interact with those applications.

In another embodiment a TV widget framework is disclosed that provides the computing support and common library procedures for many of the user interface components e.g. smart text entry and computing functions e.g. HTTP networking used by widgets. The TV widget framework also provides a graphical user interface context e.g. a dashboard dock or launch bar from which widgets may be selected and executed. The TV widgets and the TV Widget framework of the present invention may be integrated into a specific architecture of an MSO or may be implemented as a stand alone framework. TV Widgets and the TV Widgets framework allow traditional applications to be represented by a collection of independent TV widgets each performing a specific function. Such a partitioning of application functionality into smaller chunks uses scarce computing resources DRAM memory Flash memory CPU cycles and bandwidth more frugally obviates the need for navigation via remote control through the multitude of features in a complex application and presents a simpler and more direct user interface with direct and obvious actions associated with the selection i.e. execution of a widget.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the system and method for creating and displaying television widgets includes downloading Television widgets onto a set top box or any other consumer electronics device capable of displaying the TV widgets either via a high speed in band data carousel or by embedding the widgets within the broadcast video stream MPEG . The advantage of downloading the TV widgets lies in the power of the TV widgets ability to perform high level computation and leverage the facilities in the TV Widget Framework e.g. recommendation engine smart interface components etc. . In addition the TV widgets of the present invention consist of bytecode and are much more compact than corresponding XML content in other embodiments and are invoked via the selection of a corresponding icon from a task bar . The television widgets of the present invention are executed on a TV widget virtual machine which is contained within the TV widget framework. In addition the TV widget framework provide a number of built in components such as dynamic libraries and data modules for all widgets to use so that widgets may be executed without the need to include code to implement such components as buttons list boxes Smart Entry Fields Virtual Keyboards Menus Images Static Text Tickers and others.

The following description is intended to convey a thorough understanding of the invention by providing a number of specific embodiments and details involving various applications of the invention. It is understood however that the invention is not limited to these embodiments and details which are exemplary only. It is further understood that one possessing ordinary skill in the art in light of known systems and methods would appreciate the use of the invention for its intended purposes and benefits in any number of alternative embodiments depending upon specific design and other needs. In particular though the present embodiment describes an application primarily in the digital cable television environment the concepts apply equally well to digital satellite television Internet Protocol based Television IPTV video over wireless cell phone video and others

The present invention relates to a software program and method which is implemented as a small self contained mini application designed for execution in a constrained computing environment such as a set top box or other consumer electronics equipment that performs a single task. Multiple TV Widgets may collectively represent a conventional application. For example BIAP s eBay auction application may be represented by a collection of the following widgets eBay auction bid widget eBay auction alert widget eBay auction tracking widget eBay auction search widget. These self contained mini applications are stored in a widget library as a bytecode and are retrieved as needed by different applications such as PiTV EBay Fantasy Football etc. and displayed on a user s television screen. The software program and method of the present invention allows the user to implement each atomic task in a large application or individual mini applications as an independent TV widget where each individual TV widget may be used independently without switching the viewer s context from watching a television program to entering an application.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention and in reference to the system and method creates and implements self contained mini applications for digital television. Initially the self contained mini applications are defined as a source code program written in a computer language e.g. C SPLAT that may import graphics files and other required data in step the source code is then stored in a library source code in step . The source code program that may be written or generated by a more automated tool is transferred to compiler and translated into a bytecode format suitable for execution on target virtual machine VM that implements a bytecode interpreter which is comprehensible for interactive television applications in step . In step the system and method determines whether any other middleware such as OpenCable Applications Platform OCAP specification is employed. If the answer is Yes the bytecode is further transformed into a JAVA byte code suitable for a JAVA virtual machine in step . If the answer is No in step the system and method maps a canonical set of internal application programming interfaces APIs used by individual applications such as PiTV eBay on TV Fantasy sports as well as other interactive applications to create self contained mini applications i.e. TV widgets into the APIs of the operating system e.g. PowerTV GIOS and miscellaneous operating systems resident application e.g. SARA Atlas TV Guide Passport or middleware e.g. OCAP to create self contained mini applications i.e. TV widgets that are displayed on a television allowing users to interact with those applications.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention and in reference to the system and method demonstrates a widget path from widget development to execution. Initially the widget is defined and stored in a library source code the widgets are defined as a source code program written in a computer language e.g. SPLAT . The source code program that may be written or generated by a more automated tool is transferred to compiler . The source code program may also import graphics files and other data that will be incorporated into the final widget output by the source code e.g. SPLAT compiler. Compiler translates the source code program into bytecode format suitable for execution on target virtual machine VM and that implements a bytecode interpreter which is comprehensible for interactive television applications. In a preferred embodiment SPLAT source code is compiled into SPLAT bytecode for execution on a SPLAT virtual machine such as a virtual machine for creating widgets related to applications such as PiTV personalized interactive television and eBay on TV and and fantasy sports and . Application shell and provide an API Application Programming Interface for widget framework and that wraps an application environment and several low level services that are provided by set top box such as Scientific Atlanta s Explorer and such as Motorola s Digital Cable Terminal operating system e.g. PowerTV GIOS and resident application e.g. SARA Atlas TV Guide Passport and and middleware that include graphics video sound and other display services along with an application event management. The resulting bytecode form of the widget may contain data imported from other files e.g. graphics and may reference external library routines provided by the widget framework. The actual source code languages compilers and virtual machines employed are not relevant to the invention and anyone normally skilled in the art could replicate the functionality of widgets and the widget framework using other source code languages compilers and virtual machines.

Additionally in situations where a middleware such as OpenCable Applications Platform OCAP specification is employed a translation step may be utilized to generate bytecode for JAVA systems. The translated source code program into a bytecode format is done by compiler and further translated at bytecode translator that transforms it into JAVA bytecode suitable for execution on JAVA virtual machine JVM that interprets JAVA bytecode for creating JAVA applets related to applications such as PiTV personalized interactive television eBay on TV and fantasy sports . OCAP libraries provide an API Application Programming Interface for widget framework that wraps an application environment and several low level services that are provided by related customer premise equipment running on any one of a myriad of operating systems .

Tools may be provided to automatically generate parts of widgets e.g. graphical UI components without programming. For example many widgets merely retrieve information from web sites or RSS feeds and display it in a small window. Defining such a widget could be merely a process of selecting from among a pre defined series of choices e.g. widget window size solid or image background text font and URL of source RSS data and one of ordinary skill in the art in possession of the present specification could implement both a tool to allow a developer to select from these options and a widget template that could be modified by the tool to accommodate the developer s choices.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention and in reference to the system and method for creating and displaying television widgets includes downloading Television widgets onto the random access memory RAM of a set top box with its operating system or any other consumer electronics device capable of displaying the TV widgets either via a high speed in band data carousel e.g. the Biap RIBS datacaster or by embedding the widgets within the broadcast video stream MPEG . The advantage of downloading the TV widgets over the prior art applications such as the EBIF Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format lies in the power of the TV widgets that can perform high level computation and leverage the facilities in the TV Widget Framework e.g. recommendation engine smart interface components etc. . In addition the TV widgets consist of bytecode are much more compact than the corresponding XML content in the EBIF applications and are invoked via the selection of a corresponding icon from a task bar as shown in where a single key of the remote control device is used to control to toggle the visibility of the task bar onto the bottom part of the television screen for ease of use the arrow keys of the remote control device is used for selecting of any one of the TV widgets that are on the task bar. The television widgets of the present invention are executed on a TV widget virtual machine which is contained within the TV widget framework as shown in . In addition the TV widget framework provides a number of built in components such as dynamic libraries and data modules shown contained in the random access memory of set top box that may also contain other applications for all widgets to use in order for the TV widgets to be executed without the need to include code to implement those components such as buttons list boxes Smart Entry Fields Virtual Keyboards Menus Images Static Text Tickers Etc. The TV widgets and the TV Widget framework of the present invention may be integrated into a specific architecture of an MSO multiple services operator which is a generic term for the provider of video programs and related services like Video on Demand Electronic Program Guides and Internet Data Services or may be implemented as a stand alone framework.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention and in reference to there is shown an arrangement for creating and delivering television widgets where application server and in band datacaster are utilized to create and deliver the television widgets of the present invention either statically or dynamically via an IP gateway such as Ethernet . Since the set top boxes that facilitate the video audio and data to televisions are limited in terms of memory storage the television widget modules after being created reside on application server and are retrieved on demand and delivered from in band datacaster via Apache HTTP server that utilizes a datacaster administrative interface module . In the static version TV widget data is stored in storage transmitted to encoder for transforming the data to an MPEG 2 stream as needed where player may repeatedly stream it to video pump that streams MPEG 2 transport stream and deliver it over a Gigabit Ethernet GigE or an Asynchronous serial interface ASI via to MSO headend facility. Optionally in the dynamic version the television widget modules may be directly transmitted to raw data storage for temporary storage immediately converted to an MPEG 2 stream by encoder streamed to video pump via player and pumped out only once over a GigE or an ASI via to the MSO headend facility. Additionally datacaster administrative interface module transmits control information to controller to convey control instructions to encoder to convert the TV widget data to an MPEG 2 stream statically or dynamically. Controller also passes control instructions to player to stream the MPEG 2 data repeatedly in the static version or only once in the dynamic version.

Referring to the there is shown a broadband network structure in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Broadband network broadly includes Application Server for storing and delivering TV widgets via Ethernet and in band datacaster where the TV widgets are transformed into an MPEG 2 transport stream and delivered over a Gigabit Ethernet or an Asynchronous serial interface ASI via to MSO headend facility to be delivered to set top boxes and displayed on user s televisions . Application Server and in band datacaster are integrated into sample broadband network architecture .

The computer code shown in is a short source code for creating the simple widget shown in according to an embodiment of the present invention.

Interactive application user interfaces are severely limited by today s digital cable TV infrastructure. Primarily this is a result of using a remote control as an input device. For example entering text in an instant messaging or chat application is tedious with conventional soft keypads or numeric keypad mappings. But with the enhanced computing resources available sufficient intelligence can be embedded in user interface widgets to greatly enhance their usefulness and efficiency. As such the method and software program of the present invention may be implemented to configure two smart widgets the smart keypad and the contextual relevance menu bar as shown in and respectively.

The smart keypad of aggregates statistical letter frequency information gathered from all applications via the blackboard to build a letter frequency model. With this information the keypad can often guess the next letter or word the user wishes to type and provide easily accessible shortcuts to the user significantly speeding up text entry.

The contextual relevance menu bar of allows applications to leverage information gathered from user and application models to present options to the user that may be invoked with a minimum number of keystrokes often bypassing many levels in conventional menu hierarchies.

The television widgets of the present invention may include a method for redefining the conventional television program guide that is delivered to television viewers in the form of a grid structure as well as other functions of a conventional television navigator e.g. SARA TV Guide or Atlas as a collection of independent widgets that are separately constructed and delivered to TV viewers. These TV widgets are delivered as a grid guide widget a what s on now widget sorted by channel a program search widget My 8 ball a movie and television programming recommendation widget My TV search for searching specific television programs a sports recommendation widget a kids recommendation widget a general program recommendation widget a DVR control widget a VOD ordering widget a View my Bill widget an Order Pay Per View widget a set preferences widget a set PIN widget a customer service widget. Other possible implementations include My Weather My Yellow Pages Smart Navigation and Instant Messaging with Smart User Interface .

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that there are many variations that may be made in the embodiments of the invention as described above without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. There are for example different computer languages that one might employ for writing the code that may create the TV widget described in the invention. There are similarly many other variations that will be apparent to those with skill in the art all within the spirit and scope of the invention.

