---

title: Inferential evaluation and control for matching requirements to system capabilities
abstract: An inferential evaluation system for evaluating system capabilities relative to a set of requirements is provided. The inferential evaluation system includes a requirements modeling component configurable to be updated to model a set of requirements. The inferential evaluation system also includes a system descriptive modeling component configurable to be updated to model a system description of a first system to be analyzed. An evaluation model component is also included and is configured to relate the system description of the first system to requirements of the set of requirements in order to evaluate the capabilities of the first system to meet the set of requirements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07571149&OS=07571149&RS=07571149
owner: Rockwell Collins, Inc.
number: 07571149
owner_city: Cedar Rapids
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060515
---
Currently in the design of communication networks service oriented systems and in systems with different inter network and intra network protocols there is no easy method to ensure that the intent of a requirement is satisfied by a system attribute nor is there any methodology or process which captures and represents within the implemented systems or networks themselves these relationships between requirements and capabilities. For example there are different applications and media with their own quality of service QOS requirements which do not have their translations into network services with their QOS characteristics represented in the design models or the implemented systems themselves. As a consequence there is a potential for mismatch between network QOS capabilities and the need for QOS at the application level when considering new network services or new applications and especially in dynamic situations where the choices of network services with QOS to support an application changes with the characteristics of an ad hoc network or other restrictive network states.

Evaluating one or more systems to determine whether the system capabilities can satisfy a set of requirements is very difficult and the knowledge of this evaluation is typically lost or not easily accessible after the design process. Likewise comparing systems to determine which is best suited to satisfy a set requirements in a consistent manner can also be very difficult without some form of common model representing the requirements and the analyzed system capabilities. Lacking the ability to evaluate system capabilities in a consistent manner relative to sets of requirements much work is typically required to select the best system to use.

There is a need to match requirements to system capabilities in a universal easy and consistent manner that can be interpreted by the systems themselves during operation. Disclosed embodiments provide a universal evaluation model that matches the semantics of the requirements domain with the semantics of the system attributes in a logical fashion to allow for inferences to be made. The evaluation model is capable of containing complex restrictions on inferences and also of using and relating the vocabulary and language of the requirements domain and the system domain thus providing a semantic translation between them from both their respective domain vocabularies for purposes of defining a satisfaction meaning between requirements and system capabilities.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

It is desirable to match requirements to system capabilities in a universal easy and consistent manner that can be interpreted by the systems themselves during operation. The ability to match system requirements to the capabilities of one or more systems in a consistent manner through use of common requirements models related to the specific models of systems to be evaluated for their potential to satisfy the system requirements is provided by disclosed embodiments of an inferential evaluation system.

Disclosed embodiments of an inferential evaluation system provide a universal solution for representing requirements and their attributes in any domain about system capability properties and attributes and about the logical relationships between system capability properties and attributes and domain requirements and attributes respectively. This enables logical inferences to be made concerning the satisfaction of higher level domain requirements and which system capability attributes and properties satisfy them and also to characterize the type of satisfaction attained. The solution is based on an evaluation ontology that incorporates these three types of knowledge and a logical language for expressing relationships between them. An ontology is defined as a specification of a conceptualization of a knowledge domain. More specifically an ontology is a controlled model and vocabulary that describes objects and the relations between them in a formal way and has a grammar for using the vocabulary terms and making well formed statements to express something meaningful within a specified domain of interest. The set of well formed expressions in the ontology are also useful for creating queries and assertions. Ontological commitments by programs and the evaluation subsystems are agreements to use the vocabulary and model in a consistent way for knowledge sharing.

The three types of knowledge incorporated into the evaluation system in exemplary embodiments are Requirements Model System Descriptive Model and Evaluation Model. is a high level representation of an architecture model of an embodiment of the inferential evaluation system . Inferential evaluation system includes an evaluation model a requirements model and one or more system capabilities or descriptive models . Evaluation model provides the linkage between the requirements model and the system descriptive model for purposes of evaluation of the system represented by system descriptive model to identify its capabilities potential to satisfy the set of requirements.

In some embodiments requirements model describes Net Centric e.g. Internet based architectures requirements to be satisfied by a system such as the system described by system descriptive model . As such requirements model identifies requirement attributes. In some embodiments requirements model uses standard Network Centric Operations NCO vocabulary and concepts to accomplish this description. System descriptive model describes a system being evaluated. As such system descriptive model identifies system attributes using the vocabulary and concepts of the system. More than one system descriptive model can be used to describe more than one system allowing system capabilities of multiple systems to be evaluated and compared. Much of the remainder of the disclosure describes embodiments in terms of a single system descriptive model but those of skill in the art will recognize that the description is applicable to multiple descriptive model embodiments.

In one example instance use evaluation model captures or generates a system Net Centric evaluation for the system described by model . As such evaluation model relates the system description with the requirements. It identifies system attributes from system descriptive model related to requirement attributes from model . Evaluation model also relates vocabulary and concepts of the system under evaluation i.e. from model with the vocabulary and concepts of the requirements i.e. from model .

The overall ontology is defined using the OWL ontology language but any other equivalent could also be used to represent the three domain models and that can be used to model the hierarchical requirements characteristics and the hierarchical system characteristics and an evaluative model relating the two in such a manner that inferences can be made concerning the satisfaction of higher level requirements by any level of system characteristics. The Web Ontology Language known as OWL is a semantic markup language for publishing and sharing ontologies on the World Wide Web. OWL was developed as a vocabulary extension of RDF the Resource Description Framework and is known in the art and is described here as one form of language used to represent the semantics of the three domain models previously identified

Disclosed embodiments are built on an ontology with three abstraction layers in each of the three knowledge areas. The evaluation logic includes logic to associate and restrict what inferences can be drawn at higher layers in the requirements model from lower layer satisfaction matches. The ontology itself can also be used as a building block to create even higher layers of inferences in ontologies of lower layers thus providing the means to evaluate different aspects of a requirement satisfaction e.g. performance functionality QOS etc.

Referring now to shown is a block diagram illustrating one more particular embodiment of the architecture of inferential evaluation system . As shown in this embodiment of inferential evaluation system includes a number of components labeled as services subsystems knowledge bases and ontology models. These are described below.

Evaluation service provides primary control and access to the overall inferential evaluation system . Evaluation service also provides interfaces for integration with other software frameworks either web service interface object oriented interface or a common message based application programming interface API . Requirements subsystem is configured to provide services supporting requirements knowledge capture creation of requirements hierarchy dependencies and parameter settings for specific requirements needs classification. Analyzed system capabilities subsystem is configured to provide services supporting analyzed system capabilities knowledge capture creation of system capabilities hierarchy dependencies and parameter settings for specific capabilities needs classification.

Common evaluation analysis subsystem is configured to provide services supporting creation of fixed logical relationships between requirements and system capabilities models using a common evaluation language specified by an evaluation ontology. Subsystem supports multiple satisfaction classifications between requirements and system capabilities at three hierarchical levels Aspect Attribute and Element. Subsystem also supports multiple types of satisfaction classifications including Satisfied Partially Satisfied and Not Satisfied and Not Applicable.

Ontology and knowledge base query subsystem is configured to provide services supporting access to four pairs of knowledge bases and ontologies Requirements System Capabilities Evaluation and Evaluation Results which are described below in greater detail. Evaluation inference subsystem is configured to implement logic inference capabilities to match the OWL language or equivalent logical inferences that can be made for a query. Subsystem also supports automatic consistency checks for satisfaction classification types.

In an exemplary embodiment requirements ontology model is a semantic ontology in W3C OWL language or equivalent enabling capture of requirements in a hierarchical semantic dependency model requirements Aspect requirements Element Requirements Attribute . Requirements ontology model has predefined requirement concepts which can be refined with new domain specific requirements concepts. Requirements knowledge base stores a set of facts entered about a requirements application domain which are consistent with the requirements ontology to ensure a consistent knowledge base and inferences.

In this exemplary embodiment analyzed system capabilities ontology model is a semantic ontology in W3C OWL language or equivalent enabling capture of relevant analyzed system capabilities in a hierarchical semantic dependency model Analyzed Aspect Analyzed Element Analyzed Attribute . System capabilities ontology model has predefined analyzed system capabilities concepts which can be refined with new system specific capabilities concepts. Analyzed system capabilities knowledge base stores a set of facts entered about the relevant analyzed system capabilities consistent with the analyzed system capabilities ontology . Certain constraints are defined by the ontology to ensure a consistent knowledge base and inferences. Different analyzed system knowledge bases can be created each consistent with the analyzed system ontology for comparison purposes.

In this exemplary embodiment evaluation ontology model is a semantic ontology in W3C OWL language or equivalent enabling semantic linkage between requirements and analyzed system capabilities knowledge bases and . The evaluation ontology has a set of properties and concept classifications that can be refined for the specific application domain. Each evaluation concept has at least one concept classification of both the requirements and analyzed system ontologies and . The model also links the satisfaction concept classification to each linkage relationship thus characterizing the satisfaction of a requirement state by an analyzed system capability. The evaluation concept parallels the requirements and analyzed system hierarchy ontology models and though they are not necessarily one to one in a hierarchical semantic dependency model Evaluation Aspect Evaluation Element Evaluation Attribute . Each evaluation model concept has a property linking to at least one requirement and analyzed system concept. For similar types of analyzed systems the same ontology is used to create different evaluations of different systems. Evaluation knowledge base stores a set of facts entered about a semantic logical linkage between at least one requirements concept and an analyzed system concept. In some embodiments ideally they are at the same hierarchical level in the model though this is not necessary. The set of facts also define the type of satisfaction linkage partial satisfied not satisfied or not applicable.

Evaluation results ontology model is a semantic ontology in W3C OWL language or equivalent aggregating satisfaction results between requirements and analyzed system capabilities by type. Evaluation results knowledge base stores a set of facts derived from the evaluation knowledge based structured by satisfaction types.

In order for a user or a system to interact with inferential evaluation system for purposes of evaluating a particular system s capabilities to satisfy a set of requirements the interaction will be initiated through evaluation service component which as was described above can be an API a web service an object based interface etc. In order to update inferential evaluation system for use in evaluating system capabilities relative to the particular requirements the specific languages and model for the requirements are updated under control of the requirements subsystem under requests through the external interface of evaluation service . In other words requirements ontology model is updated with new requirements concepts. Using evaluation service component interactions with the evaluation system and the requirements subsystem can occur to modify or add vocabulary or concept definitions of the requirements ontology model. Requirements subsystem is committed to the requirements ontology by supporting interactions for defining requirements knowledge capture in the model creating requirements hierarchy dependencies and for defining parameter settings for specific requirements needs classification. The requirements ontology model defines the vocabulary of requirements the grammar of requirements the structural and logical relationships for the model and the types of logical inferences that can be made from the model. The requirements knowledge base contains a set of requirements facts that are consistent with the vocabulary grammar and model defined by the requirements ontology model .

Ontology and knowledge base query subsystem provides access to the ontology model or the requirements knowledge base with information provided by the requirements subsystem in order to change the model or to add or modify the facts in the requirements knowledge base.

Knowledge base is updated with the actual specific environment type facts as an instance of the meta description constrained by the requirements ontology . The ontology is a model comprising multiple classes with the various logical constraints on them. When the requirements knowledge base is updated it is done with the vocabulary concepts and allowed expression types of the particular requirements domain defined by the ontology . For example for communication system requirements communications concepts and names would be used that are subclasses of common ones that are universal and invariant. So for a requirements update determination of the particular subsystem to invoke is initiated through the evaluation service which would then route subsequent related messages for the requirements modification to the requirements subsystem for subsequent requirements ontology knowledge base access. The requirements subsystem then controls whether to update the ontology or the knowledge base and passes the query to the appropriate knowledge base or ontology model.

Also in order to update inferential evaluation system for use in evaluating system capabilities relative to the particular requirements the knowledge about specific system capabilities are updated for the system being analyzed. In other words system capabilities ontology model and knowledge base are updated under control of subsystem . Using evaluation service component again to determine which subsystem to invoke the interactions to modify the vocabulary concepts of system capabilities model definitions or to add facts to the system capabilities knowledge base are coordinated with the analyzed system capabilities subsystem . Subsystem supports this system capabilities knowledge capture creation of system capabilities hierarchy dependencies and parameter settings for specific capabilities needs classification. System capabilities subsystem then updates system capabilities ontology model or system capabilities knowledge base through the ontology and knowledge base query subsystem . System Capabilities Knowledge base is updated with the actual specific facts as an instance of the meta description inside the ontology or in other words only facts consistent with the system capabilities ontology vocabulary grammar allowed expressions and model are allowed.

Once requirements ontology model and requirements knowledge base and or system capabilities ontology model and system capabilities knowledge base are updated the evaluation of the system capabilities relative to the requirements is performed. Prior to this evaluation though the evaluation ontology model must first be defined to relate the requirements model definitions to the system capabilities model definitions which can then permit a set of requirements satisfaction facts to be entered into the evaluation knowledge base to characterize a particular system s satisfaction of requirements. Common evaluation analysis subsystem will have directed interactions routed to it from the evaluation service interface for either evaluation queries evaluation ontology model updates or evaluation knowledge base updates.

Under the control of common evaluation analysis subsystem in response to a query received through evaluation service evaluation inference subsystem checks for defined matches between requirements ontology model requirements knowledge base and system capabilities ontology model system capabilities knowledge base as defined by the evaluation ontology model and the evaluation knowledge base . Evaluation inference subsystem is a logic inference engine that checks the match between the query and the actual knowledge base or ontology to see if there is a match. It also has logic to determine if there is any transitive inference something like if A is related to B and B is related to C then A is related to C i.e. other logical paths through the model that would satisfy the query. Evaluation inference subsystem is a rules based inference engine and any of the numerous rules based inference engines which are publicly available can be used. Evaluation inference subsystem thus does complex matching between the language of the query which can be constructed as an OWL query and the language of the system as defined by the appropriate ontology model either requirements system capabilities or evaluation ontology or respectively.

An important concept is that in order to represent requirements satisfaction facts about a particular system and to be able to query whether a system satisfies various requirements the following has to be done 

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above but can be refined and specialized to the actual domain vocabulary of the requirements application domain and system capabilities descriptions. In this way the evaluation system can translate between different vocabularies and language used for requirements and system capability descriptions. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

