---

title: All purpose seal
abstract: An apparatus for sealing a doorway, more particularly, an all purpose gasket structure capable of sealing a doorway against the entry of water, smoke, and fire. The gasket is primarily an elongated silicone rubber structure having a ridged rectangular cross section for mounting to a gasket retainer. The gasket also includes a crush zone which collapses inwardly when pressure is applied to the gasket surface, resulting in improved sealing and the blockage of water intrusion paths. The gasket may further include an intumescent section within the elongated silicone rubber structure. In the sealing arrangement, the gasket is arranged within a gasket retainer that surrounds the doorway, thereby sealing boundaries between areas of personal egress.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07451714&OS=07451714&RS=07451714
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07451714
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061004
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to an apparatus for sealing a doorway more particularly the present invention relates to a gasket structure capable of sealing a doorway against the entry of water smoke and fire.

U.S. Navy watertight arrangements are utilized in watertight boundaries where personnel egress through bulkheads is needed but watertight integrity must be maintained. The sealing mechanism of standard watertight door arrangements comprise a series of dogs sliding across ramped wedges which are connected to the door panel. The sliding of the dogs across the wedges pulls the panels into a knife edge associated with the door. Navy protocol requires that the knife edge must compress the gasket to one eight of an inch in order for the door system to be deemed watertight.

Until the 1990s the Navy used primarily three types of gaskets in watertight arrangements Military Specification Mil R 900 rubber gasket material Federal Specification ZZ R 765 silicone rubber Class 2b Grade 40 and Military Specification Mil G 17927 gaskets glass metallic cover with silicone core . The Military Specification Mil R 900 gaskets were designed with a generally rectangular cross section in which two edges were chamfered. These gaskets had a high durometer rating requiring excessive dogging forces needed to correctly seal the door. These high dogging forces resulted in accelerated wear on watertight door components requiring extensive adjustment and replacement of door components such as wedges and linkage bearings. Additionally these gaskets were difficult to install and even more difficult to remove.

The type ZZ R 765 gaskets were typically used in watertight doors in missile blast areas. The ZZ R 765 gaskets were also designed with a generally rectangular cross section in which two edges were chamfered. These gaskets had a generally low durometer rating and were mid range with respect to costs. For watertight applications the ZZ R 765 gaskets were relatively easy to install and remove.

The type Mil G 17927 gaskets had a silicone core and two additional layers of glass metallic cloth topped by a silicone rubber coating. The Mil G 17927 gaskets had a generally rectangular cross section. These gaskets had a high durometer rating and were extremely expensive to procure.

If fire and smoke protection are required in addition to water protection then the gaskets must be able to withstand temperatures of about 2000 degrees Fahrenheit and maintain their fire smoke and water sealing integrity. Of the three gaskets types named above the ZZ R 765 Class 2B Grade 40 performed best however there was still a need for improvement. In light of this need a new watertight door gasket outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 5 553 871 was developed using Federal Specification ZZ R 765 as the material requirement. Eventually this Federal Specification became obsolete and was replaced by Commercial Item Description A A 59588. This new gasket had an altered profile with a generally rectangular cross section with chamfered edges and a semi circular cut out portion along a surface. This design allowed for easier dogging of watertight door panels and improved fire and smoke protection. However this gasket design still failed to properly seal exits when exposed to fires of about 1 500 to 2 000 degrees Fahrenheit for prolonged periods of time. Consequently there is still a need for a seal with a design that protects against the entry of fire smoke and water especially when exposed to fires of from about 1 500 degrees Fahrenheit to 2 000 degrees Fahrenheit and higher.

The present invention addresses aspects of problems outlined above. Preferred embodiments of the present invention provide an apparatus for sealing a doorway against the entry of water smoke and fire.

In one aspect the invention is a gasket with an elongated silicone rubber member having a ridged rectangular cross section for mounting to a gasket retainer and a door frame. The ridged rectangular cross section has a back side with a first end and a second end and a front side with a first end and a second end. The ridged rectangular cross section also has a first side extending from the first end of the back side to the first end of the front side and a second side extending from the second end of the back side to the second end of the front end. The ridged rectangular cross section further has a ridged portion protruding from the front side wherein the back side the front side the first side and the second side are for contacting inner walls of the gasket retainer. The ridged portion is for contacting a knife edge of the door frame. In this aspect the gasket further includes an elongated crush zone within the elongated silicone rubber member formed substantially adjacent to the ridged portion of the elongated silicone rubber member.

In another aspect the invention is an all purpose sealing arrangement. The sealing arrangement includes a door frame a door panel attached to the door frame and a gasket pressing member. The gasket pressing member has a knife edge and is attached to the door frame. In this aspect the invention further includes a gasket retainer attached to the door panel the gasket retainer having a substantially rectangular channel. A wedge is attached to a back side of the door panel and a dogging structure is attached to the door frame for applying a force on the gasket via the wedge. In accordance with this invention the gasket comprises an elongated silicone rubber member having a ridged rectangular cross section for mounting to the gasket channel. The ridged rectangular cross section of the gasket has a back side with a first end and a second end and a front side with a first end and a second end. The ridged cross section also has a first side extending from the first end of the back side to the first end of the front side and a second side extending from the second end of the back side to the second end of the front end. The ridged rectangular cross section further includes a ridged portion protruding from the front side wherein the back side the front side the first side and the second side contact the gasket channel. The ridged portion contacts the knife edge of the pressing member. In this aspect the all purpose sealing arrangement includes an elongated crush zone within the elongated silicone rubber member formed substantially adjacent to the ridged portion of the elongated silicone rubber member. The arrangement further includes an elongated intumescent section within the elongated silicone rubber member formed substantially adjacent to the back side of the elongated silicone rubber member.

A ridged portion protrudes from the front side forming a ridge like protrusion. As shown in the ridged portion protrudes from the front side protruding at locations corresponding to a first corner portion and at a second corner portion . The protrusion at the first corner portion extends to a first end of the ridged portion . The protrusion at the second corner portion extends to a second end of the ridged portion .

The gasket primarily comprises silicone rubber preferably of a Commercial Item Description A A 59588 type. The A A 59588 is preferably class 3B grade 30 but may also be of other A A 59588 silicone rubber classes and grades. The gasket also includes a crush zone within the silicone rubber body. The crush zone is the region immediately surrounding an air pocket within the silicone rubber body. The crush zone is located adjacent to a surface of the ridged portion . The air pocket enables the crush zone to collapse inwards in a predetermined manner to form a proper sealing relationship when placed in a gasket channel. Alternatively the air pocket may be replaced by a material that is significantly less rigid than the surrounding silicone material creating a crush zone around that material. This softer material would also enable a predetermined inward collapse upon the application of pressure.

The gasket also includes an intumescent section adjacent to the back side . The intumescent section comprises intumescent material which expands upon exposure to escalated temperatures. The intumescent material may comprise any known intumescent chemical such as intercalated graphite mica perlite vermiculite hydrated sodium silicate and phosphorus or combinations thereof. The intumescent material may be chosen depending on the environmental conditions and the required amount of expansion. If fire zone sealing is not required the intumescent section may be omitted.

Lengths distances and radii of curvature a b c d e Rand Rmay vary according to specific applications. According to one embodiment the length of the back side a may be about 1.25 inches. The length b of the first and second sides may each be about 0.50 inches. The amount of protrusion c that the ridged portion protrudes from the front side may be about 0.1875 inches. The distance d from the first end of the front side to the first corner portion may be about 0.25 inches. The distance e from the second end of the front side to the second corner portion may be about 0.375 inches. According to this embodiment the radius of curvature Rof the first and second ends may be about 0.125 inches and the radius of curvature of the remaining rounded edges Rmay be about 0.0625 inches. The dimensional measurements of this embodiment are especially suited for a particular sealing arrangement as illustrated in B and C.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

