---

title: Automated reward management for network-based contests
abstract: A system for automated reward management for network-based contests includes one or more processors and memory coupled to the processors, where the memory stores program instructions executable by the processors to implement a contest manager. The contest manager is configured to collect an entry fee corresponding to each entry of a plurality of entries submitted for a contest over a network, and provide a prize to a winning entry of the contest based at least in part on a total amount of entry fees collected for the contest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08224696&OS=08224696&RS=08224696
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08224696
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060417
---
This invention relates to computer systems and more particularly to services for creating and administering contests over computer networks such as the Internet.

Skill based contests in which multiple contestants submit entries such as short stories photographs etc. and in which winners are identified and awarded at the end of the contest have been popular for generations. Traditionally however the establishment and administration of such contests has required considerable effort and time e.g. the organizer has to set up the rules of the contest publicize the contest select judges or voters receive the entries provide the entries to the judges voters tally the results notify the winners etc. each of which often required the organizer to perform one or more manual actions. In addition especially if the contest involves an entry fee or some level of monetary compensation it has been the contest organizer s responsibility to determine whether any government regulations apply to the contest and if so to obtain any needed permissions from government authorities and ensure that no applicable regulations are violated by the contest. As a result setting up such contests has typically been an expensive and slow process that is usually beyond the capabilities of the average citizen.

In recent years personal computers of ever increasing computational power have become more and more affordable and network connectivity and available bandwidth between computers has greatly increased with the advent of the Internet. The number and types of content sources accessible from home computers and the types of content that can be created relatively easily and cheaply using home computers and equipment typically available in middle class households have all proliferated. Videos created at home using inexpensive digital video recorders Web based logs or blogs and podcasts of audio material are just some examples of new types of content that can be created and distributed fairly easily. There has also been an increased interest in new types of entertainment involving competitions among non professionals in which the winners are selected by the audience such as the popular American Idol television program in the United States and its many clones throughout the world. Despite the increasing networking and content creation capabilities available and the continued interest in competitions of skill however flexible easy to use mechanisms for setting up and conducting skill based contests have so far remained unavailable.

Various embodiments of systems and methods for automated reward management in network based contests are disclosed. According to one embodiment a system includes one or more processors and memory coupled to the processors where the memory stores program instructions executable by the processors to implement a contest manager. The contest manager is configured to collect an entry fee corresponding to each entry of a plurality of contest entries submitted over a network for a contest and provide a prize to a winning entry of the contest based at least in part on a total amount of entry fees collected for the contest. For example the contest may require an entry fee of 1 from each contestant in one implementation and 10 000 may be collected from 10 000 contestants participating in the contest. Of the total of 10 000 collected in entry fees 8000 may be distributed in the form of prizes to one or more contestants while the remaining 2 000 may be retained as a service fee by a service provider responsible for the contest manager and or distributed between an organizer sponsor of the contest and the service provider. Entries and entry fees for the contest as well as contest defining rules and votes used in determining the results of the contest all may be received by the contest manager over the Internet in one embodiment. The contest manager may thus be configured to automate the process of contest prize management leading to a considerable reduction in the effort and costs associated with conducting skill based contests.

In some embodiments a prize awarded by the contest manager may comprise one or more non monetary components. For example a contestant may be awarded with free publicity e.g. by prominently displaying an identification of the contestant on one or more web sites maintained by the contest manager etc. In one embodiment a reward may comprise a reduction or waiver of entry fees for subsequent contests. In one embodiment the contest manager may collect a sponsorship amount from a corporate sponsor and the sponsorship amount may be used as part of the reward pool e.g. rewards may be distributed based on the sponsorship amount and or entry fees. The sponsorship amount may be used to reduce or waive entry fees for a plurality of contestants e.g. if a sponsor establishes a fund of 10 000 for a particular contest the first 10 000 contestants registering for the contest may have their entrance fee waived thus providing an incentive for contestants registering early for the contest.

According to another embodiment a winning contestant such as a video or audio content creator a photographer or a writer may be rewarded by marketing one or more items created by the contestant that are for sale at an e commerce engine or web site. The e commerce engine may be maintained independently of a contest manager conducting the contest i.e. a different organizational entity may be responsible for the contest manager than is responsible for the contest manager in some embodiments. The contest manager may provide links e.g. web links to the portion of the e commerce engine s web site where content items such as videos compact discs etc. produced by a winning contestant are accessible for sale and may promote or advertise the content items on its own web site.

In some embodiments a contest manager may be configured to support the creation of one or more virtual communities associated with a contestant or a contest. For example the contest manager may implement a simple easy to use interface for such activities as creating a web log or discussion group providing comments which may include written comments audio comments or even video comments on a contest or a contestant viewing or playing back the comments etc.

In another embodiment voters who have a successful track record in predicting contest results such as voters who have voted for a winner of two or more contests may be provided voter rewards by a contest manager. A voter reward may also comprise monetary and non monetary components e.g. in one embodiment a voter reward may include increasing the strength of the voters subsequent votes for other contests thus giving the voter a greater influence relative to the average voter or providing publicity to the successful voter at a web site maintained by the contest manager. In some embodiments aggregated demographic information may be provided to a sponsor or organizer of a contest managed by a contest manager e.g. allowing the organizer to determine how the contest is being received by a target audience.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments are shown by way of example in the drawings and are herein described in detail. It should be understood however that drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

In some embodiments the contest may allow contestants to submit various types of media objects such as recorded audio or video files as contest entries which may be collected by media manager and stored in storage . In one such embodiment media manager may be configured to assist the contestants in preparing the contest entries e.g. by providing media objects for the contestants to use or modify in creating their entries and these media objects may also be stored in storage . For example in a lip sync contest in which contest entries comprise videos of contestants matching their lip movements to previously recorded music the media manager may be configured to stream song lyrics to the contestants at clients and to collect and store the video entries created by the contestants. In addition to providing media objects to contestants and receiving media contest entries media manager may also be configured to manage the distribution of one or more modules of executable software used to conduct the contests such as upload tools to client machines . An upload tool may for example be configured to automatically take over audio and or video recording devices at the client machines capture input provided by the contestants for submission as entries and upload the entries back to media manager without requiring the contestants to perform complex technical tasks. It is noted that some contests may support group contestants in addition to or instead of individual contestants e.g. a plurality of individual contestants may jointly submit a single contest entry in such embodiments.

In one embodiment storage may comprise a plurality of logically and or physically distinct databases such as a contest entry database for received contest entries a source media library comprising media objects such as videos or song lyrics to be provided to contestants for assistance in entry creation regulation database comprising contest rules and or applicable government regulations user databases containing information about contest creators contestants and or voters etc. In one implementation the contest manager may be configured to update its database of applicable government regulations whenever a relevant law or rule changes and may for example utilize the services of one or more legal service providers to automatically obtain notifications of relevant regulation changes. In one embodiment the contest manager may be configured to communicate with an e commerce electronic commerce engine e.g. to help market or sell content associated with a contest that was set up using the contest manager. For example audio or video content that won a prize in a contest or was created by or otherwise affiliated with a winner of a contest may be sold through the e commerce engine using a web link from a web page set up by the contest manager . The e commerce engine may be independently managed and or owned with respect to the contest manager in some embodiments i.e. a different organization or corporation may be responsible for the contest manager than the organization responsible for operating the e commerce engine . In some embodiments as noted above network may comprise a public network such as the Internet while in other embodiments contests may be created and conducted at least in part over private networks such as corporate networks for contests limited to employees of a particular corporation. Further details on various aspects of the operation of contest manager such as the types and structures of contests allowed the types of voting and prize systems that may be implemented etc. are provided below. It is noted that although establishment module administration module rules engine and media manager are illustrated as separate entities in the embodiment shown in the functionality of the contest manager may be distributed among a different set of modules or may be combined into a single module in other embodiments that is any desired architecture may be used to implement the contest manager in various embodiments.

A number of interfaces such as web pages accessible via browsers from clients may be implemented for the various functions supported by the contest manager such as contest creation entry submission viewing and judging etc. illustrates a simple example of a web page that may be implemented as a home page or a welcome page for the contest management services provided by a contest manager in one embodiment. As shown the welcome page may include a title area a scrollbar and a welcome message e.g. Welcome to ContestsAToZ.com . The welcome message which may be personalized in some implementations for returning visitors to the page e.g. if a user has registered with a web site managed by the contest manager the user s name may be displayed in the welcome message . In addition as shown the welcome page may include a search interface area allowing the user to search for contests based on a variety of search criteria for example based on contest name contest content type e.g. whether the contest entries are videos photographs etc. contest creator contest popularity etc. An advanced search facility as indicated by the button labeled Advanced Search may be implemented in some embodiments e.g. to allow more complex search queries including Boolean combinations of search terms.

The web page may also include a listing of a selected number of contests. From among the set of contests managed by contest manager which may include contests currently in progress completed contests and or contests scheduled to begin in the future a subset may be selected for inclusion in listing according to a variety of different criteria in various embodiments. For example in one embodiment the contests with the largest prizes or the largest sponsorship amounts may be displayed in other embodiments the contests that have so far attracted the most votes may be displayed or those that are about to be completed in the near future may be displayed and so on. The criteria used to select contests in listing may be configurable in some embodiments e.g. by a web site administrator of contest manager . For each contest listed in listing various details may be displayed such as the contest name e.g. in the depicted Contest Name column the contest entry type or theme e.g. in the Type column information about the contest duration or status e.g. in the column labeled Ends and links to other web pages where a user may perform various actions with respect to the contest e.g. in the Action column such as viewing the entries or winners submitting entries etc.

In addition to the listing the welcome page may also include one or more interface elements such as buttons web links etc. configured to allow users to begin the process of creating contests of various types in some embodiments. In some embodiments for example by clicking on an embedded web link or button such as button titled Create Your Own Contest in the user may obtain access to a generic contest creation web page where contests for any desired type of entries may be created as described below in conjunction with the description of . In an alternate embodiment each of one or more elements such as the web links labeled Lipsync Karaoke Video and Photo in indicating respective types of contest entries may lead to other web pages where the user may be provided various options to create contests of the corresponding entry type as described below in further detail. In one embodiment selected entries of a spotlighted contest such as entries A C may also be displayed on the welcome page in spotlight region . Each entry in the spotlight section may comprise for example a small photograph e.g. A C or video of the contestant who submitted the entry the contestant s identifier or name e.g. user user or user and information about the entry such as the name of the entry e.g. Song Title A . The entries displayed in the spotlight section may be selected based on a variety of different criteria in various embodiments e.g. based on entry popularity how recently the entry was submitted etc. It is noted that while shows a very simple example of an interface that may be provided as an entry point by contest manager in one embodiment more sophisticated interfaces which may for example include animation music and other effects may be implemented in other embodiments. It is also noted that in some embodiments advertisements and or contest related promotional content such as an identification of the most popular contest or contests identifications of winning contestants identifications of voters with the most successful voting records etc. as described below in further detail may also be included in Welcome page as well as in other web pages implemented by contest manager .

The contest manager may be configured to be scalable to support large numbers of concurrent contests contest creators contestants voters and other viewers e.g. individuals who may wish to observe submitted contest entries or contest status without voting competing or creating contests themselves in one embodiment. For example the contest manager may be implemented using a cluster of computer servers and associated storage devices and the functionality of the various components of the contest manager may be distributed and or replicated across the various computer servers of the cluster. Hundreds or thousands of concurrent contests may be managed in such embodiments in which each contest includes tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of participants e.g. contestants voters and one or more contest creators and viewers. In one implementation the contest manager may be geographically distributed e.g. servers implementing the contest manager s functionality may be located in a plurality of data centers across a nation or across the world which may help increase the resilience of the contest manager to natural disasters such as hurricanes fires etc. and may also help to distribute the workload experienced by the contest manager to prevent overloads that might overwhelm any single server. In some embodiments subsets of the resources e.g. a subset of the servers from a server farm and or a subset of storage devices from a storage pool may be dedicated to specific contests in response to reservation requests submitted as part of contest creation as described below in further detail.

To provide a high level of availability any of a variety of failover and or redundancy techniques may be used for various components of the contest manager and the storage e.g. one or more storage arrays implementing a RAID Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks technology may be used for storage and computer servers configured as primary and failover backup servers may be used to implement the various modules of the contest manager . In some embodiments where a plurality of computer servers are used to implement contest manager software or hardware load balancing mechanisms e.g. a dedicated hardware load balancer may be used to distribute the workload among the plurality of servers. It is noted that although illustrates only one user e.g. a contest creator a contestant or a contest voter per client device each client device may support multiple users of each type e.g. multiple contestants may use the same client device in some embodiments.

Establishment module may be configured to provide interfaces for contest creators to specify a wide variety of parameters governing various aspects of the structure and rules of contests in various embodiments. For example using a simple web based form like interface for contest creation requests contest creators may specify parameters such as contest entry types and formats e.g. whether entries for a particular contest are to consist of audio or video objects photographs written text etc. the duration and structure of the contest e.g. whether the contest is to consist of one round or multiple rounds the start and end date time of a contest the selection mechanism or procedure to be used to determine the winner or winners of the contest such as aspects of various voting systems described below the entry fee for contestants if any whether the contest is to be limited to a specific group of contestants such as employees of a particular company or residents of a particular neighborhood city or state or open to the general public and various techniques to be used for publicizing a contest associating the contest with a sponsor or a brand etc.

In some embodiments the establishment module may provide contest creators the capability to save contests as drafts in a manner similar to the way some electronic mail servers allow users to save mail messages in draft format. For example a contest creator may be provided a contest template with various elements to be filled out or customized and the contest creator may save the template as a working draft from time to time as more details of the contest are filled in without necessarily finalizing the contest before saving the draft version. The contest creator may later retrieve the saved contest e.g. either to modify it or to review it prior to sending it to contest manager . Button may be provided to initiate the process of launching the contest e.g. to submit a request for contest creation to establishment module . Advanced features of the contest creation interface e.g. features specifying prize management options and fee management options for contests whose establishment requires fees may be accessed via one or more other interface elements such as button in some implementations. It is noted that while illustrates a simple example of an interface that may be used to create contests interfaces that may include additional features to those illustrated in or modified versions of the elements shown in may be used in other embodiments. In some embodiments for example the interface may provide users with default or suggested values for some of the contest parameters or may provide a wizard interface e.g. to help guide new contest creators who may not have a lot of experience in creating contests.

In one embodiment as noted above the rules engine may be configured to store information e.g. in a regulation database within storage on various government regulations that may be applicable to contests and if a contest creator sets up a contest that may be affected by one or more of the regulations the establishment module may be configured to provide a notification such as an error message and or a pointer such as a web link to information explaining the impact of the law to the contest creator indicating that the regulations prohibit the contest. If a contest creator attempts to set up a contest that violates a regulation the establishment module may prevent the contest creator from successfully completing the contest creation process i.e. illegal or potentially illegal contests may be identified and prevented before any illegal activity can occur. For example in one implementation if a proposed contest is to allows minors under the age of eighteen years to participate as contestants for a monetary prize and at least one country or state from which the contest is to be accessible has a law barring participation of minors in such contests the rule engine and the establishment module together may prevent a contest creator from setting up such a contest or allowing entries to be submitted from jurisdictions where the contest is illegal. It is noted that in some embodiments contest manager may be configured to verify compliance with government regulations both during contest creation and during contest execution e.g. establishment module may be configured to ensure that no regulations are violated when a contest is created and administration module may be configured to ensure that no regulations are violated during entry submission voting prize or award distribution etc. For example decency regulations prohibiting the display of certain types of media objects may be applicable during contest execution in some jurisdictions. In some embodiments different regulations may apply during contest creation and contest execution in other embodiments an overlapping set of regulations may apply to both contest creation and contest execution administration. To verify regulation compliance in one embodiment the contest manager may be configured to determine the geographical location and hence the relevant laws regulations that apply which may differ for different locations of a contest creator contestant or voter e.g. either based on address information provided voluntarily by the contest creator contestant or voter or based on other information such as a mapping between a network address of the client system being used and a geographical location. In one embodiment the contest manager may be configured to obtain pre approval from relevant government agency for various types of contests e.g. by filing one or more appropriate documents or forms so that delays between receiving a contest creation request and the establishment of the contest may be minimized. In some embodiments instead of or in addition to obtaining pre approval the contest manager may be configured to expedite the process of obtaining approval from a relevant government agency after a contest creation request is received e.g. one or more approval forms may be fully or mostly filled in by the contest manager based on its knowledge of the contest creator and or based on information provided in the contest creation request.

In some embodiments and for certain types of contests contest creators may have to deposit a specified amount of money e.g. via a credit card or via an Internet based payment facility such as PayPal prior to being allowed to start a contest. For example some contests may require a contest creation fee. Other contests such as some contests sponsored by business entities such as corporations e.g. contests in which numerous and or large monetary or in kind prizes are to be awarded may also or instead require the contest creator e.g. acting on behalf of the business entity to provide a specified level of funding before a contest is started. At least a portion of the sponsor s funds may be used for prizes awarded to winning contestants and other portions may be provided as payment to an owner or manager of contest manager . In some embodiments the contest manager may implement a flexible funding mechanism for example instead of requiring a fixed prize amount such as 10 000 to be deposited before a contest begins the total prize amount that the contest creator e.g. a corporate sponsor has to pay may be determined based on the total number of contest entries received during a specified entry submission period e.g. 2 per entry . In embodiments employing such flexible funding if a particular contest does not attract many contestants the sponsor may avoid paying a large up front contest creation fee. In one embodiments to attract contestants the entry fees for the first N contestants may be waived e.g. based on a sponsorship amount received from a sponsor.

In some embodiments contest manager may provide contest creators easy to use interfaces to promote their contests by contest manager . For example contest creators may be allowed using a simple form like interface to advertise their contests on one or more web pages managed by the contest manager such as Welcome page on external web pages and web sites such as search engines e.g. Google or on other media such as radio television newspapers etc. The contest manager may be configured to make the process of designing and distributing contest advertisements easy for non professionals e.g. by providing advertising templates and preview editing options. In some embodiments the contest manager may also provide tools allowing contest creators to track participation levels in contests they have created. For example contest manager may provide a contest creator with an indication of how many contestants and or voters are participating in a contest the geographical locations of the voters and or other demographic information such as participant age distribution e.g. how many of the participants are in the 20 40 years age group gender distribution etc. The contest manager may gather such demographic information from contestants and voters e.g. as a registration requirement or a condition of contest participation in some embodiments. The demographic information may be presented in an aggregate and anonymized form i.e. in a form where identification information such as names full addresses etc. of the contestants and or voters is removed to contest creators in some embodiments to avoid privacy violations and contestants and voters may be permitted to restrict or disallow the use of their demographic information e.g. using an opt out interface in some embodiments. In some embodiments the demographic information may be provided in real time e.g. as additional contest entries and or votes are received demographic information made available to a contest creator or sponsor may be updated dynamically.

In one embodiment the contest manager may be configured to reserve a specified set of computing networking and or storage resources for specific contests at contest creation time. For example the contest manager may control or have access to a data center or web farm with a plurality of computer servers storage devices etc. from which specific subsets of servers and storage may be allocated and reserved for respective contests. Contest creators that anticipate large numbers of contestants voters or viewers may request as part of the contest creation process that sufficient quantities of computing storage and networking resources be reserved for and dedicated to their contests. In some embodiments contest manager may include a monitoring module configured to track resource usage such as CPU utilization storage utilization bandwidth utilization etc. either specific to a contest or for a collection of contests. The monitoring module may for example determine whether resource utilization has reached a threshold value that requires additional resources to be deployed and may either automatically deploy additional resources when needed or notify an administrator that additional resources are needed for the contest or the collection of contests. In some embodiments e.g. for especially complex contests or for contests that are to be run on a very large scale and so have special requirements contest manager may provide information allowing contest creators to contact contest experts e.g. a link to a professional services organization with expertise in large scale web based contests may be provided.

Establishment module may support the creation of branded contests in some embodiments for example a business entity such as a corporation sponsoring a contest may wish to apply a brand specific look and feel to the contest such as a display of a corporate logo on every web page corresponding to the contest. In some embodiments the establishment module may allow contest creators to upload specifications e.g. using CSS cascading style sheets HTML Hyper Text Markup Language JSP Java Server Pages or some other web page presentation technology to be used to customize the presentation of contests. In one embodiment the establishment module may provide application programming interfaces APIs or programming guidelines examples to technically proficient contest creators allowing some contest creators to submit programming code that can be used to set up and conduct their contests.

As noted above a contest creator may specify contest structure as part of a communication or request to the establishment agent . The term contest structure as used herein may refer to information describing the time periods during which entries may be submitted and or judged and or on the number and characteristics of rounds or sub contests into which a contest may be organized e.g. the manner in which entries are selected for inclusion in subsequent rounds of a multi round contest etc. . Contest manager may be configured to support a wide variety of contest structures in various embodiments. In one exemplary contest structure as shown in above a start time and an end time may be specified for a contest indicating both the period in which entries can be submitted and the period in which voting or judging occurs that is as soon as an entry is received from a contestant and made viewable to voters in such a contest voters may begin voting on the entry. It is noted that the terms start time and end time may refer to calendar dates as well as times within a day and time zone information e.g. a start time or an end time may be specified as Feb. 1 2006 10 00 am Pacific Standard Time . At the end time a winner or a ranked list of the highest rated competitors may be determined based on the votes received. In this first example the contest comprises a single round. In another example of a single round contest structure different start and end times may be specified for entry submissions and for voting e.g. using interface elements and of . For example submissions may be permitted between Mar. 1 2006 9 00 am Eastern Standard Time submission start time and Mar. 4 2006 11 00 pm Eastern Standard Time submission end time while voting may be permitted between Mar. 5 2006 9 00 am Eastern Standard Time voting start time and Mar. 8 2006 11 00 pm Eastern Standard Time voting end time . The voting period may overlap at least partly with the submission period in some contests and may be entirely separate from the submission period in other contests. In some embodiments the total number of participants may be limited e.g. a contest creation request may specify that only the first 1000 participants to register for a contest are to be allowed to compete. In other embodiments other participation criteria may be specified in a contest creation request e.g. only the employees of a particular corporation or only those affiliated with a particular organization such as a club may be allowed to participate. Alternatively in some embodiments the contest creation request may specify participant exclusion criteria e.g. employees at one or more levels of an organization sponsoring a contest may be barred from entering the contest.

In one example of a multi round contest submission and voting periods may be specified for each round and a specified number of the best performing contestants i.e. the contestants that receive the highest number of votes may be automatically entered into the next round. For example starting with 10 000 contestants in Round 1 the top 10 1000 contestants may be entered into Round 2. A different voting period may be specified for each round and a percentage of the most highly ranked contestants may be promoted in each round to the next round without requiring any new entries to be submitted. The percentage of surviving contestants may vary from round to round e.g. based on parameters specified during contest creation. After several rounds depending for example on the number of initial participants or on a limit on the number of rounds specified during contest creation a single winner or a small set of the highest ranked remaining contestants may be awarded prizes according prize policy in use. In a second variation of the multi round contest structure described above contestants that survive from one round to the next may be required to submit new entries e.g. within a specified submission period for each round. A variety of other contest structures may also be implemented in some embodiments for example in one scenario of a multi round contest a certain percentage of the most highly ranked losing contestants in each round may be allowed to modify their entries and resubmit them for the next round.

Contest manager may be configured to support contests for a wide variety of content types in various embodiments. For example a particular contest may be limited to entries that combine video with audio entries that consist of audio alone video alone e.g. silent video still images text or a combination of any desired media object types that can be submitted over a network such as the Internet. More detailed content type specifications may be indicated during contest creation in some embodiments e.g. in one implementation a contest may be limited to videos of no longer than five minutes duration or the file size of photography entries may be limited. Administration module may be configured to verify before including an entry in a contest that the entry is of the correct content type and meets any required content type specifications in some embodiments and may for example reject entries that fail to meet the desired specifications or are of an unexpected content type. A given contest may allow entries of different media types to be entered in some embodiments e.g. a contest entitled Tribute To War Heroes may allow videos audio photographs poetry commentary fiction etc. to be submitted as entries. In some embodiments contests may even be conducted for media types that cannot directly be submitted over a network e.g. sculptures as long as enough information can be provided over the network e.g. a series of photographs of a sculpture for voters or judges to rank entries relative to one another. In one embodiment a contest entry may include a puzzle or a game e.g. a video game or a board game .

A number of different contest types corresponding to different themes or categories may be supported in various embodiments. For example song related contests in various embodiments may allow users to submit karaoke entries in which amateur singer contestants sing along to lyrics of a song while the lyrics of the song are displayed and the original singers voices are muted or reduced in volume lip sync entries in which contestants match their lip movements to previously recorded music and or a capella entries in which contestants sing without accompanying musical instruments . In some embodiments contest entries may include audio files such as podcasts that combine music with non musical content such as news or mock news commentary storytelling etc. or that consist entirely of non musical content. Comedy related contests may allow contestants to submit videos or audios of stand up comedy i.e. recordings of the contestant telling jokes or comedy routines before a live audience so called bloopers recordings of an individual or group making an error e.g. misreading a line in a play or motion picture where the error generates humor practical jokes etc. In some embodiments contest manager may support the creation and execution of beauty related contests such as beauty pageants best make up or best makeover awards. In one embodiment contest manager may support the establishment and execution of a dating contest in which for example contestants are allowed to provide entries containing information about themselves to compete for the opportunity to have a social interaction or date with an individual e.g. the contest creator based on the votes of viewers of the entries. A dating contest with an entry fee for each entry submitted may be run for example on behalf of a celebrity to raise money for a favorite charitable organization.

A variety of text related contests may be organized using contest manager in different embodiments such as fiction contests non fiction contests short story contests poetry contests web log blog contests interview contests etc. Still image related contests may include photography contests including contests for original photographs as well as contests for modifications or distortions of existing photographs illustration e.g. manual drawing or computer assisted drawing contests painting contests collage contests contests associated with the use of a particular technology or software program such as Photoshop to modify existing media objects etc. Within a particular category contests specializing in specific sub genres may be set up in some embodiments for example within the general category of photography related contests specific contests limited to photographs taken over a mobile phone or photographs taken using a particular brand of camera may be established and managed by users with the help of contest manager .

The media types and or themes for a given contest may be specified in contest creation requests e.g. using a form like web interface similar to that illustrated in in some embodiments. In some embodiments media manager may be configured to provide media objects such as song lyrics for karaoke contests music videos for lip sync contests or original photographs for photograph modification contests and or software components to assist contestants in the preparation of their contest entries. In addition as described below in further detail in some embodiments media manager may be configured to synchronize various elements e.g. synchronize audio captured at a client system from a contestant with video provided by the contest manager by adjusting the relative timing of the audio and the video of contest entries and or to help improve the quality of contest entries e.g. by digitally enhancing a video that may have been taken using an inexpensive or unsophisticated video camera .

Administration module may be configured to support a variety of different selection mechanisms for ranking contest entries and determining contest winners in various embodiments. A contest creator may specify e.g. at the time a contest creation request is submitted a population of users or voters who are to be allowed to vote for entries of a given contest. By default e.g. if a contest creator does not specify voter qualification criteria any visitor or viewer of a contest entry with the exception of the contest creator and contestants competing in the contest may be allowed to vote for the entries of a contest in one embodiment. A contest creator may limit the population of voters for a variety of reasons in different embodiments e.g. based on the subject matter or theme of the contest e.g. in a contest for Best Casual Friday Office Attire at a particular corporation only employees of the corporation may be allowed to vote for promotional funding reasons e.g. in a contest to select the funniest answering machine message only customers of a particular telecommunications company that is sponsoring the contest may be allowed to vote etc.

In addition to specifying a population of voters a number of other details regarding the specific voting or judging techniques to be used for a contest may be specified as part of a contest creation process in various embodiments. For example in some embodiments the contest creator may specify that each vote is to consist of a simple binary choice such as a thumbs up choice indicating approval of an entry and a thumbs down choice indicating disapproval and that the entry with the most approval votes cast is to be selected as the winning entry. In other implementations voters may be allowed to provide a rating on a scale e.g. a rating on a scale of 1 to 5 where 1 signifies the best rating and 5 is the worst rating or to provide multiple ratings based on different aspects or evaluation criteria for an entry e.g. in a song entry one rating may be provided for strength of voice another for voice range etc. . In some embodiments voters may be required to rank various entries e.g. to indicate an ordering from best entry to worst entry or to indicate the relative ranking of the top five entries they select . In. one embodiment contest winners may be determined by elimination e.g. votes may be used to eliminate remaining entries one by one until only a winner or a specified number of winners remain. In one implementation each voter may be allowed to cast multiple votes per entry for a contest e.g. a given voter may be allowed a total of ten votes to be distributed as the voter chooses among up to ten contest entries. In addition to votes in some embodiments voters may be allowed to provide comments on entries or candidates e.g. either written comments audio comments or video comments and the comments may be stored and made available for view or playback by other viewers voters and contestants by the contest manager.

In some embodiments in addition to or instead of using votes submitted by voters to determine contest results a panel of experts may be selected to participate in the process of selecting the winners of a contest. In one scenario well known film experts photographers or authors may be requested to participate in selecting a winner from a subset of contestants that have received the most votes from viewers for example out of 10 000 submitted photography entries the top 10 vote getters may be reviewed by a panel of expert photographers to determine the final rankings. The expert panel may also participate over the network using one or more interfaces supported by contest manager in one embodiment i.e. the experts may not be required to gather in one location to make their decision but may do so electronically e.g. using an electronic voting process within the group of experts. Combining the use of panels with well known experts with public voting i.e. voting by non expert voters in this manner may help to engender additional publicity for contests conducted via contest manager in such embodiments.

In one embodiment a potential voter or contestant e.g. a viewer who has not yet decided whether to compete or vote in a contest may navigate through one or more web pages in addition to the Welcome page illustrated in to view more information about a contest and or various already submitted entries. illustrates an example of a simple contest home page that may be provided by administration module according to one embodiment. The contest home page may be accessed e.g. as a result of clicking on an interface element such as a web link labeled View Enter in listing of on a contest manager home page . In the depicted embodiment the contest home page may include a welcome message a prize section describing the prizes that may be won by contestants an interface element to join the contest an indication of the time left for submitting entries a description rules section describing contestant and voter qualification criteria and information about the contest producer and or sponsor. In addition the contest home page may provide links implemented for example using HTTP links to various entries submitted in the contest. In the example shown in for example a table listing various contest entries is provided where each listing in the table comprises a photograph e.g. photograph A C of the contestant the name of the corresponding entry e.g. entry name A corresponding to photograph A etc. and an indication e.g. indication A for entry name A of a time at which the entry was submitted. The entries may be displayed according to various ordering criteria e.g. in one embodiment the entries with the most votes may be shown at the top of table while in another embodiment the most recent entries may be displayed first. In some embodiments the set of entries displayed most prominently may be customized for the viewer e.g. if contest manager is able to determine a city from which the user is viewing the contest over the Internet entries from the viewer s city or from a geographical area near the viewer s city may be displayed more prominently e.g. at the top of table than other entries. The photographs and the entry names may each comprise links to web pages for the corresponding contest entries e.g. by clicking on photograph A a viewer may be led to a web page for the entry corresponding. to name A such as the web page shown in . In some embodiments the voting system or selection mechanism to be used in the contest may be displayed explained or illustrated on the contest home page. The interface element to join the contest may lead to one or more other web pages in various embodiments e.g. for registration as a contestant contest entry creation such as a web page illustrated in and described in further detail below submitting entry fees etc.

In some embodiments a display of a contest entry such as a playback of a video using an interface similar to that shown in may include one or more advertising elements. In one such implementation contest manager may be configured to insert an advertisement e.g. using media manager into an entry such as a corporate logo in a corner of video display layer a banner occupying a section of the video as background or a product placement such as a bottle of a beverage sold by the corporation. For example sophisticated video editing software may be used to insert such advertisements into a video entry without making it apparent to the average viewer or voter that an original contest entry has been modified. In some implementations contest manager may obtain permission from a contestant prior to inserting or displaying advertisement information in the contestant s entry in other implementations contestants may give contest manager the right to modify their entries as a condition of participation in the contest and no additional permission may be required for the advertising. In some embodiments a payment or non monetary compensation received from an advertiser by the contest manager may be shared with the contestant or contestants whose entries include the corresponding advertising. In one implementation compensation may be received by contest manager and or shared with a contestant each time a corresponding contest entry with an included advertisement is viewed e.g. the number of times the entry is viewed may be tracked and advertising related payments may be made accordingly. In some embodiments contestants may include product placements or other advertising related elements in their original entries e.g. in a video or photograph contest contestants may be required to include a reference to a corporation such as a view of a corporate logo or a product in the entries they submit.

It is noted that while and illustrate simple examples of the kinds of information that may be included within web pages for contests and contest entries respectively in some embodiments in other embodiments different user interfaces and or different user interface elements than those shown in and may be used. Different interface elements may be provided for voting based on the voting scheme being implemented for the contest for example in one embodiment a set of radio buttons may be provided to implement a voting system that uses a 1 to 5 rating. The interface for viewing the contest entry may also differ depending on the content type of the contest entry e.g. a high contrast text interface similar to those used for electronic books e books may be provided for text entries in some embodiments. Prize Management

A number of different prize or award management schemes may be implemented by administration module in various embodiments. In some embodiments for example an entry fee may be required for each submitted entry and the prize awarded to the winner or the top rated contestants may be based at least in part on the total amount collected in the form of entry fees. For example in one scenario each entry in a lip sync contest may require a 1 entry fee. If 10 000 contestants participate thus generating 10 000 in entry fees 75 of the total entry fees 7500 may be distributed to the winning contestant or contestants and 25 2500 may be divided among a contest organizer and or the service provider responsible for implementing and maintaining contest manager . In some embodiments a contest may be sponsored e.g. by a corporation and no entry fees may be charged for at least the first N contestants instead the sponsor may be responsible for providing at least a portion of the prize amount. A combination of sponsor provided funds and entry fees may be used for prize money in one embodiment e.g. a sponsor may be responsible for providing a minimum prize money amount the entry fee may be waived for the first N contestants and any entry fees provided by additional contestants may be added to the sponsor provided prize money. In some embodiments contest manager may support paid subscriptions that provide subscribers the right to participate in a specific number of contests e.g. in a scenario where entering each contest without a subscription costs 1 a 10 annual subscription may permit a user to enter 20 contests during a year thus reducing the subscriber s effective entry fee for the 20 contests to 0.50 each. In one embodiment a sponsor or organizer of a contest may provide a particular amount of funding into an account set up for a particular contest e.g. to subsidize a specified number of contest entries. In one such scenario for example 5000 may be provided to support the first 5000 entries in a contest or the first 5000 entries received from first time contestants i.e. contestants who have not participated previously in a contest managed by contest manager . In some embodiments a sponsor may provide credits to the top N vote getters in one contest which may be used to enter other contests that is a contestant receiving a credit for doing well in a contest A may be given a credit that can be used to enter contest B without paying the entry fee for contest B .

In some embodiments non monetary prizes or benefits may be awarded to contest winner either in addition to or instead of monetary prizes. For example in some contests a winning contestant or a set of the highest ranked contestants may be provided additional exposure on the contest manager s web site e.g. a photograph or video of the winner may be displayed prominently on the contest manager s Welcome page the winner may be shown or identified in one or more advertisements either on the Internet or on other media such as radio television or newspapers and or the winner may be provided with contacts to entertainment companies such as radio or television broadcasters film producers etc. In one embodiment contest manager may be linked to an e commerce engine selling content produced by winning contestants for example for a winning contestant the contest manager s web site may provide links to compact discs individual song recordings or videos made by the winning contestant that are available on the e commerce engine s web site. For increased impact the links to the e commerce engine may be displayed within web pages at a number of different levels within the contest manager s web site in some embodiments e.g. within the web page for a contest entry such as web page of submitted by the winner the home page for a contest in which the winner participated such as web page of and or the home page for the contest manager such as page of . In one embodiment as part of a prize or reward offered to a winning contestant the contest manager may be configured to implement a mechanism to license content such as songs song collections videos short stories photographs etc. created by the winning contestant and to provide royalties to the winning contestant.

Prize management details may also be specified as part of the contest creation process e.g. a contest creator may indicate whether and how prize amounts are to be determined how many contestants are to be awarded prizes etc. as part of requests sent to establishment module in some embodiments. As noted earlier in some jurisdictions contests that distribute monetary or other rewards may be regulated by one or more government authorities and establishment module may be configured to use rules engine to ensure that no regulations are being violated by the prize distribution scheme requested by a contest creator. It is noted a plurality of contestants may be awarded monetary prizes and or benefits in some contests that is a given contest may not be limited to one or a very small group of winners. For example in one embodiment the top vote getters in a photography contest may each be awarded a camera as a prize.

Unlike in traditional contests in which non winners typically receive no rewards of any kind in some contests managed using contest manager large numbers of contestants may be rewarded at least to some extent e.g. by being allowed to enter subsequent contests with reduced entry fees having their contest entries viewable by the general public even after the contest ends allowing viewers to comment on or praise the entries etc. In one embodiment randomly selected contestants or contest entries may be publicized or highlighted on the home page of the corresponding contest or the home page of contest manager for specific periods of time thus providing another reward mechanism for contestants that may not be contest winners.

In some embodiments administration module of contest manager may be configured to implement a voter reward scheme in which for example voters that most accurately predict contest outcomes are provided with monetary or non monetary rewards. For example in one embodiment if a voter successfully votes for the eventual winner of a plurality of contests or a plurality of rounds of a contest the voter may be provided a prize or may be provided with free publicity or fame e.g. the voter may be identified as a top voter on the contest manager s web site . In another embodiment administration module may be configured to implement a system of vote strength in which not all votes are given equal weight in determining the outcome of a contest instead for example the weight associated with a particular voter s vote may be adjusted based on the success of the voter in predicting the outcome of previous contests or previous rounds within a contest. In one exemplary embodiment a voter may be identified as a power voter because the voter has voted for the winner of at least 80 of the contests in which the voter has cast a vote and the relative weight of that voter s vote may be increased to 5 so that each vote cast by the voter in a subsequent contest counts as the equivalent of 5 votes cast by non power voters .

In one embodiment contest manager may permit voters to select teams consisting of a plurality of contestants . The voters may follow the progress of the members of their selected teams through various rounds of a contest or through various contests and the voter whose team collectively performs the best e.g. the team whose members receive the most votes may be rewarded with a monetary and or a non monetary prize. In some embodiments contest manager may provide an interface or interfaces allowing voters to bet or gamble on contest results e.g. either using an official currency such as United States dollars or using a virtual or artificial currency supported by contest manager . In one such embodiment contest manager may be configured to compute and display the current odds e.g. 1000 to 1 of a given contest entry being determined the winner of a contest based on the bets that have been placed on the contest entry so far and voters may place new bets based on the current odds. Using these and other similar techniques contest manager may provide incentives for viewers to vote in contests managed by the contest manager thus increasing viewer loyalty to the contest manager s web sites which may in turn lead to increased revenue for the organization implementing the contest manager e.g. due to increases in advertising sponsorship contest entry fees etc. .

In some embodiments contest manager may be configured to implement a variety of other services to attract and retain additional visitors e.g. voters and contestants to contest web sites. For example contest manager may implement a contestant profile system in one embodiment. A contestant profile may comprise for example one or more web pages including a variety of information about a particular contestant such as a photograph of the contestant a list of contest entries submitted by the contestant a message board comprising comments about the contestant s entries etc. Contest manager may be configured to provide customizable templates for establishing contestant profiles in one embodiment and registered viewers of the contest manager s web sites may be permitted to customize profile pages using the templates. In one embodiment a contestant profile web page may provide an interface e.g. a form enabling viewers to add themselves as fans or supporters of the contestant or as a friend or family member of the contestant. In some embodiments the contest manager may provide viewers with tools such as easily customizable template web pages to establish fan clubs e.g. fan club web sites for contestants . The fan club web sites may support similar functionality as the contestant profiles described above.

In some contests where the entries include both audio and video synchronization between the audio and video elements of an entry may be required e.g. to ensure that the timing of lip movements of a contestant in a lip sync contest matches the timing of the original singer or that the singing of a karaoke contestant matches the music being played. In some embodiments the contest manager e.g. using administrative module and or media manager may be configured to assist in synchronization of the various elements of a contest entry. For example the contest manager may be configured to transmit software modules which may collectively be referred to herein as an upload tool or tools to a contestant s client system such as a personal computer or a laptop to take control of various recording peripheral devices such as a microphone and a computer attached video camera that are to be used to record a contest entry and to synchronize input received from the different peripheral devices. For lip sync and or karaoke contests the transmitted tool may be configured to play background music and display lyrics with the appropriate timing. illustrates an exemplary web page that may be displayed with the help of an upload tool to a contestant during a recording of a karaoke entry for a contest according to one embodiment. As shown the web page may include a song title display a lyrics display area showing the lyrics of the song for which the karaoke entry is being recorded and a live video display area in which the video being captured by a camera linked to the contestant s client computer system may be shown as it is being recorded.

The upload tool which may include an audio capture module separate from a video capture module in some embodiments transmitted by the contest manager may be installed on a client system the first time that a contest entry is submitted from that client machine and may be left on the client system after the first entry is submitted in some embodiments e.g. to avoid retransmission if the client system is later used for submitting additional contest entries. In other embodiments one or more of the modules of the upload tool may be reinstalled for every entry submission. In one embodiment contest manager may be configured to automatically update one or more components of the upload tool at a client system when a new version of the modules e.g. a version with defect fixes and or enhanced capabilities becomes available. In various embodiments the upload tool may be configured to capture and or upload a variety of different types of media e.g. in one embodiment the tool may capture still images either directly from a camera a scanner or from a storage location such as a disk or a flash drive specified by a contestant and may be configurable to create a custom slideshow comprising still photographs from a number of sources. The upload tool may also support synchronization between the slides and music e.g. either music provided by contest manager or music supplied by the contestant in some embodiments.

In one embodiment a module or modules of the upload tool provided by the contest manager may be configured to detect the volume setting of speakers and or microphones being used to create the an audio recording and to modify the setting as necessary to improve the quality of a contest entry. In another embodiment one or more modules of the upload tool may be configured to automatically detect bandwidth available for the connection between the client system and the contest manager and may adapt the uploading of contest entries accordingly for example if the upload tool detects that insufficient bandwidth is available for an immediate upload a video or audio contest entry may be temporarily stored on the client system and may be uploaded later. In one embodiment a module of the upload tool may be configured to automatically detect features or capabilities of a camera linked to the client system and may be configured to adjust the settings of the camera to optimize capture of a contest entry video or still image. The upload tool may comprise one or more plugin modules for a web browser in some embodiments e.g. modules that may be linked to the executable code of the browser without requiring manual intervention. The upload tool may support a number of other functions in various embodiments such as the ability to overlay one or more graphic images over each other or over a video recording the ability to convert media objects from one format to another e.g. to convert a file in .avi Audio Video Interleaved format to an equivalent .flv a format supported by the Macromedia Flash program the ability to combine or mash still images using video effects etc. In some embodiments the upload tool may comprise a voice analysis module configured to compare a digitized version of a contestant s singing of a song to a digitized professionally recorded version of the song and provide an analysis of the differences between the two versions e.g. to help a contestant improve his her singing. In one embodiment the upload tool may be configured to provide one or more editing modules for previewing and or modifying a contest entry at the client system prior to submission. A contestant may use the functionality to make improvements to an entry before submission to contest manager e.g. the contestant may remove extraneous portions of a video enhance video portions that may have been captured at a poor quality change brightness or contrast in photograph contest entries etc. .

In some embodiments the contest manager may be configured to support the establishment and maintenance of virtual communities associated with contests and or contestants e.g. groups of individuals with a shared interest in a particular contest or contestants who are interested in communicating with one another over the Internet . For example in one embodiment the contest manager may enable viewers voters to easily establish web logs so called wikis a website or similar online resource that allows users to add and edit content without going through a centralized control mechanism multi user groups or forums to discuss and or comment on contests or contestants. The contest manager may also support functionality that informs a particular viewer or voter who indicates a preference for a particular contest contest entry or contest theme about other viewers with similar preferences e.g. the contest manager may inform a viewer that people who liked contest entry X also liked contest entry Y or people who liked contestant A also liked contestant B etc. Viewers with similar interests may be permitted to identify themselves as friends of each other on a web site managed by contest manager in some embodiments and when a particular viewer belonging to such a group of friends visits a contest page the contest manager may personalize the page using information associated with one or more friends of the viewer. For example the contest manager may indicate one or more voting choices made by friends of the viewer e.g. a message such as N of your friends voted for content entry X may be displayed. The establishment of virtual communities using these and similar techniques may also help to increase viewer loyalty to the contest manager s web sites which may in turn result in higher participation levels in contests increased sponsorships more advertising revenue etc.

It is noted that although a variety of web pages corresponding to various aspects of contest management have been illustrated in . in some embodiments interfaces other than web pages may be implemented by contest manager . For example in one embodiment contest manager may provide a custom graphical user interface GUI that may be installed on client devices and may not require the use of a web browser.

After a contest has been established contest manager may be configured to launch the contest e.g. a web site comprising one or more web pages similar to web page of for the contest may be made accessible to contestants . The contest manager e.g. using administration module and media manager may be configured to conduct or administer the contest block . Contest administration may comprise a variety of different types of operations in various embodiments as described above such as for example registering contestants providing media objects such as karaoke lyrics to client systems for use by contestants to create contest entries uploading contest entries verifying that the entries do not violate government regulations receiving votes determining and displaying results etc. . In some embodiments the contest manager may also be configured to provide one or marketing functions or services to contest winners or sponsors block . In one embodiment the contest manager may provide links on one or more of its web pages enabling consumers to purchase compact discs or videos associated with the contest such as compact discs or videos produced by winners of the contest. In another embodiment the contest manager may provide links to web pages or sites maintained by corporate sponsors of the contest e.g. enabling consumers to obtain coupons to be. used to purchase products produced by the sponsors.

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

