---

title: Photosensitizers for targeted photodynamic therapy
abstract: The present invention relates to photosensitizer compounds based on functionalized fullerenes useful in targeted photodynamic therapy (PDT), and methods of use thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08207211&OS=08207211&RS=08207211
owner: Lynntech, Inc.
number: 08207211
owner_city: College Station
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060228
---
This application is a U.S. national phase application pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT international application Ser. No. PCT US06 006894 filed Feb. 28 2006 designating the United States and published in English on Sep. 8 2006 as publication WO 2006 093891 A2 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 657 181 filed Feb. 28 2005. The entire contents of the aforementioned patent applications are incorporated herein by this reference.

Each of the applications and patents cited in this text as well as each document or reference cited in each of the applications and patents including during the prosecution of each issued patent application cited documents and each of the PCT and foreign applications or patents corresponding to and or paragraphing priority from any of these applications and patents and each of the documents cited or referenced in each of the application cited documents are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference. More generally documents or references are cited in this text either in a Reference List or in the text itself and each of these documents or references herein cited references as well as each document or reference cited in each of the herein cited references including any manufacturer s specifications instructions etc. is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Funding for the present invention was provided in part by the Government of the United States under Grant Nos. R43 CA103268 and R01 AI050875 from the National Institutes of Health. Accordingly the Government of the United States has certain rights in and to the invention.

Photodynamic therapy PDT refers to the use of photosensitizing drugs in combination with light for treating medical conditions. The PDT technique has shown promise as a cancer therapy Dolmans D. E. Fukumura D. and Jain R. K. 2003 . Photodynamic therapy for cancer. 3 380 387 and recently has achieved success as a treatment for age related macular degeneration Brown S. B. and Mellish K. J. 2001 . Verteporfin a milestone in opthalmology and photodynamic therapy. Expert Opin. 2 351 361 . The PDT method uses a compound known as a photosensitizer PS which is administered directly e.g. endoscopically or topically to an accessible treatment site or alternatively is administered systemically and concentrates in a target tissue site within the body of a subject. Subsequent irradiation of the target site with visible light of suitable wavelength generates singlet oxygen O2 within or on the surface of the cells of the treatment site ultimately leading to cell death. The singlet oxygen is catalytically generated by energy transfer from the PS to oxygen from dissolved O which is ubiquitous in the body s tissues. Photodynamic therapy is advantageous compared with other therapies due to its dual selectivity not only is the PS targeted to the tumor or other lesion but the light can also be accurately delivered to the affected tissue.

The potential use of a photosensitizer as an effective means of killing microorganisms was first recognized over 100 years ago Moan J. and Peng Q. 2003 . An outline of the hundred year history of PDT. 23 3591 3600 however the possible use of PDT as a treatment for microbial infections is just beginning to be appreciated Wainwright M. 1998 . Photodynamic antimicrobial chemotherapy PACT . J. 42 13 28 Maisch T. Szeimies R. M. Jori G. and Abels C. 2004 . Antibacterial photodynamic therapy in dermatology. 3 907 917 and 30. Hamblin M. R. and Hasan T. 2004 . Photodynamic therapy a new antimicrobial approach to infectious disease 3 436 450 . For decades antibiotics have been the first line of defense against microorganisms. Of great concern in current medical practice is the proliferation of infectious microbes that display multiple antibiotic resistance and hence are not killed by existing antibiotics alone or in combination. Accordingly there is a great unmet need to develop new antimicrobial agents to which microbes are not easily able to develop resistance. In this regard it is envisioned that treatment of infections with PDT holds great promise as an alternative or adjunct to traditional antibiotic therapy because organisms are unlikely to develop resistance to a killing mechanism based on bombardment of the pathogens with reactive oxygen species.

Given the urgent need for new antimicrobial agents it would be desirable to develop PS compounds that are effective at killing a broad range of microbes such as bacteria fungi and yeast but are not harmful to the cells of a mammalian subject receiving antimicribial PS therapy.

The invention relates to the development and use of a new class of photosensitizing molecules for PDT. It has now been demonstrated that cationic fullerene embodiments functionalized with one two or three pyrrolidinium groups after a short incubation followed by illumination with white light have a broad spectrum antimicrobial activity and can rapidly kill more than 99.99 of bacterial and fungal cells.

In this invention fullerene molecules e.g. C C C C C C C C higher fullerenes and their functionalized derivatives have been modified to include a variety of properties needed for application of PDT to microorganisms. This was achieved by controlling hydrophobicity molecular charge and water solubility of the carbon nanomaterial specifically to target microbial species preferentially over other types of cells for PDT. A positive charge on some embodiments allows the fullerenes to bind to cells and overcome microbial permeability barriers. Cationic fullerenes in particular perform better as antimicrobial photosensitizers than the widely employed antimicrobial photosensitizer toluidine blue O. Accordingly cationic fullerene mediated photodynamic therapy may find significant application in the treatment of a wide variety of conditions such as for example localized infections in wounds burns and mucus membranes.

More particularly in one embodiment the present invention relates to compositions comprising a functionalized fullerene wherein the wherein the functionalized fullerene comprises a fullerene core C where n is an even integer greater than or equal to 60 and at least one functional group bonded to at least one carbon atom of the fullerene core.

Some embodiments are based on hydrophilic cationic fullerene derivatives. Other embodiments are hydrophilic neutral fullerene derivatives.

Fullerene derivatives of the invention are suitable for the treatment of a variety of bacterial viral and fungal infections. Accordingly in another embodiment the invention relates to a method for providing antimicrobial therapy which includes administering an effective amount of a functionalized fullerene species to a subject in need thereof. The fullerene species can be any one of the compounds described herein. The method includes directing light onto the administered fullerene species to produce a cytotoxic species and killing microbial cells associated with or proximal to the fullerene species by reaction with the cytotoxic species.

In order that the invention may be more readily understood certain terms are first defined and collected here for convenience. Other definitions appear in context throughout the application.

The term alkyl refers to the radical of saturated aliphatic groups including straight chain alkyl groups branched chain alkyl groups cycloalkyl alicyclic groups alkyl substituted cycloalkyl groups and cycloalkyl substituted alkyl groups. The term alkyl further includes alkyl groups which can further include oxygen nitrogen sulfur or phosphorous atoms replacing one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. In certain embodiments a straight chain or branched chain alkyl has 30 or fewer carbon atoms in its backbone e.g. C Cfor straight chain C Cfor branched chain preferably 26 or fewer and more preferably 20 or fewer. Likewise certain cycloalkyls have from 3 10 carbon atoms in their ring structure and more preferably have 3 4 5 6 or 7 carbons in the ring structure.

Moreover the term alkyl as used throughout the specification and claims is intended to include both unsubstituted alkyls and substituted alkyls the latter of which refers to alkyl moieties having substituents replacing a hydrogen on one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone. Such substituents can include for example halogen hydroxyl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy carboxylate alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the moieties substituted on the hydrocarbon chain can themselves be substituted if appropriate. Cycloalkyls can be further substituted e.g. with the substituents described above. An alkylaryl moiety is an alkyl substituted with an aryl e.g. phenylmethyl benzyl . The term alkyl also includes unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the alkyls described above but that contain at least one double or triple bond respectively.

Unless the number of carbons is otherwise specified lower alkyl as used herein means an alkyl group as defined above but having from one to ten carbons more preferably from one to six and most preferably from one to four carbon atoms in its backbone structure which may be straight or branched chain.

The terms alkoxyalkyl polyaminoalkyl and thioalkoxyalkyl refer to alkyl groups as described above which further include oxygen nitrogen or sulfur atoms replacing one or more carbons of the hydrocarbon backbone e.g. oxygen nitrogen or sulfur atoms.

The terms alkenyl and alkynyl refer to unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution to the alkyls described above but that contain at least one double or triple bond respectively.

The term aryl as used herein refers to the radical of aryl groups including 5 and 6 membered single ring aromatic groups that may include from zero to four heteroatoms for example benzene pyrrole furan thiophene imidazole benzoxazole benzothiazole triazole tetrazole pyrazole pyridine pyrazine pyridazine and pyrimidine and the like. Aryl groups also include polycyclic fused aromatic groups such as naphthyl quinolyl indolyl and the like.

Those aryl groups having heteroatoms in the ring structure may also be referred to as aryl heterocycles heteroaryls or heteroaromatics. The aromatic ring can be substituted at one or more ring positions with such substituents as described above as for example halogen hydroxyl alkoxy alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy carboxylate alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. Aryl groups can also be fused or bridged with alicyclic or heterocyclic rings which are not aromatic so as to form a polycycle e.g. tetralin .

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term enantiomers refers to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another. An equimolar mixture of two enantiomers is called a racemic mixture or a racemate. 

The term haloalkyl is intended to include alkyl groups as defined above that are mono di or polysubstituted by halogen e.g. fluoromethyl and trifluoromethyl.

The term heteroatom as used herein means an atom of any element other than carbon or hydrogen. Preferred heteroatoms are nitrogen oxygen sulfur and phosphorus.

The term isomers or stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space. Furthermore the indication of stereochemistry across a carbon carbon double bond is also opposite from the general chemical field in that Z refers to what is often referred to as a cis same side conformation whereas E refers to what is often referred to as a trans opposite side conformation. With respect to the nomenclature of a chiral center the terms d and l configuration are as defined by the IUPAC Recommendations. As to the use of the terms diastereomer racemate epimer and enantiomer these will be used in their normal context to describe the stereochemistry of preparations.

The term obtaining as in obtaining the fullerene derivative is intended to include purchasing synthesizing or otherwise acquiring the fullerene derivative or indicated substance or material .

A photosensitizer or photosensitive material is defined herein as a material element chemical solution compound matter or substance which is sensitive reactive receptive or responsive to light energy. The term can refer to a photoactivatable fullerene compound or a precursor thereof that produces a reactive species e.g. oxygen having a phototoxic effect on a microbe or infected cell.

The terms polycyclyl or polycyclic radical refer to the radical of two or more cyclic rings e.g. cycloalkyls cycloalkenyls cycloalkynyls aryls and or heterocyclyls in which two or more carbons are common to two adjoining rings e.g. the rings are fused rings . Rings that are joined through non adjacent atoms are termed bridged rings. Each of the rings of the polycycle can be substituted with such substituents as described above as for example halogen hydroxyl alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy alkoxycarbonyloxy aryloxycarbonyloxy carboxylate alkylcarbonyl alkoxycarbonyl aminocarbonyl alkylthiocarbonyl alkoxyl phosphate phosphonato phosphinato cyano amino including alkyl amino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino and alkylarylamino acylamino including alkylcarbonylamino arylcarbonylamino carbamoyl and ureido amidino imino sulfhydryl alkylthio arylthio thiocarboxylate sulfates sulfonato sulfamoyl sulfonamido nitro trifluoromethyl cyano azido heterocyclyl alkyl alkylaryl or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety.

The term subject refers to animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice and the like. In certain embodiments the subject is a human.

In this disclosure comprises comprising containing and having and the like can have the meaning ascribed to them in U.S. Patent law and can mean includes including and the like consisting essentially of or consists essentially likewise has the meaning ascribed in U.S. Patent law and the term is open ended allowing for the presence of more than that which is recited so long as basic or novel characteristics of that which is recited are not changed by the presence of more than that which is recited but excludes prior art embodiments.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. In case of conflict the present application including definitions will control.

The present invention provides photodynamic compositions for PDT. PDT employs photoactivatable compounds known as photosensitizers to selectively target and destroy cells. Therapy involves delivering visible light of the appropriate wavelength to excite the photosensitizer molecule to the excited singlet state. This excited state can then undergo intersystem crossing to the slightly lower energy triplet state which can then react further by one or both of two pathways known as Type I and Type II photoprocesses Ochsner 1997 J Photochem Photobiol B 39 1 18 . The Type I pathway involves electron transfer reactions from the photosensitizer triplet to produce radical ions that can then react with oxygen to produce cytotoxic species such as superoxide hydroxyl and lipid derived radicals. The Type II pathway involves energy transfer from the photosensitizer triplet to ground state molecular oxygen triplet to produce the excited state singlet oxygen which can then oxidize many biological molecules such as proteins nucleic acids and lipids and lead to cytotoxicity.

The therapeutic compositions of the invention comprise novel photosensitizer compounds for PDT based on functionalized fullerene molecules. Without being bound by theory it is believed that the functionalized fullerene molecules of the invention function through the Type I pathway described herein above.

More particularly the invention relates to fullerenes e.g. C C C C C C C C higher fullerenes and their functionalized derivatives. Buckminsterfullerenes also known as fullerenes or more colloquially buckyballs are cage like molecules consisting essentially of sp hybridized carbons. Fullerenes were first reported by Kroto et al. Nature 1985 318 162. Fullerenes are the third form of pure carbon in addition to diamond and graphite. Typically fullerenes are arranged in hexagons pentagons or both. Most known fullerenes have 12 pentagons and varying numbers of hexagons depending on the size of the molecule. Common fullerenes include Cand C although fullerenes comprising up to about 400 carbon atoms are also known.

Chas 30 carbon carbon double bonds and has been reported to readily react with oxygen radicals Krusic et al. Science 1991 254 1183 1185 . Other fullerenes have comparable numbers of carbon carbon double bonds and would be expected to be similarly reactive with oxygen radicals. Native fullerenes are generally only soluble in apolar organic solvents such as toluene or benzene. To render fullerenes water soluble as well as to impart other properties to fullerene based molecules a number of fullerene substituents have been developed.

Methods of substituting fullerenes with various substituents are known in the art. Methods include 1 3 dipolar additions Sijbesma et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993 115 6510 6512 Suzuki J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1992 114 7301 7302 Suzuki et al. Science 1991 254 1186 1188 Prato et al. J. Org. Chem. 1993 58 5578 5580 Vasella et al. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1992 31 1388 1390 Prato et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993 115 1148 1150 Maggini et al. Tetrahedron Lett. 1994 35 2985 2988 Maggini et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993 115 9798 9799 and Meier et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994 116 7044 7048 Diels Alder reactions lyoda et al. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1994 1929 1930 Belik et al. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1993 32 78 80 Bidell et al. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1994 1641 1642 and Meidine et al. J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. 1993 1342 1344 other cycloaddition processes Saunders et al. Tetrahedron Lett. 1994 35 3869 3872 Tadeshita et al. J. Chem. Soc. Perkin. Trans. 1994 1433 1437 Beer et al. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 1087 1088 Kusukawa et al. Organometallics 1994 13 4186 4188 Averdung et al. Chem. Ber. 1994 127 787 789 Akasaka et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994 116 2627 2628 Wu et al. Tetrahedron Lett. 1994 35 919 922 and Wilson J. Org. Chem. 1993 58 6548 6549 cyclopropanation by addition elimination Hirsch et al. Agnew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 437 438 and Bestmann et al. C. Tetra. Lett. 1994 35 9017 9020 and addition of carbanions alkyl lithiums Grignard reagents Nagashima et al. J. Org. Chem. 1994 59 1246 1248 Fagan et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994 114 9697 9699 Hirsch et al. Agnew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1992 31 766 768 and Komatsu et al. J. Org. Chem. 1994 59 6101 6102 among others. The synthesis of substituted fullerenes is reviewed by Murphy et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 162 926.

The discovery of the fullerenes in 1985 and the subsequent development of synthetic methods for the preparation of large scale quantities of the allotropes of carbon has generated considerable interest and opened a whole new field of carbon chemistry.

Fullerenes are defined as closed cage polyhedrons made up entirely of sp hybridized carbon atoms that contain exactly 12 pentagonal faces known as Euler s theorem and n 2 10 hexagonal faces where n is the number of carbon atoms n must be even and greater than twenty . The soccer ball shaped fullerene Chas the highest theoretically possible symmetry icosahedral I . It is the most abundant fullerene that is produced during the graphite combustion production of the materials followed by C.

Ccan be functionalized by well known methods of synthetic organic chemistry. The formation of Cderivatives i.e. covalently modified C nearly always involves the addition of a functional group addend across one or more of its 30 double bonds. When only one addend is attached the fullerene derivative is termed a monoadduct with two a bisadduct etc.

Another advantage of the spherical Cmolecule for PDT is its large surface area of 200 compared to 100 for other flat rigid PS maximizing exposure to O. Additionally the versatility of the Cscaffolding allows a tailoring of the hydrophobicity hydrophilicity by simple synthetic methods providing as a nonlimiting example any of a number of structures expected to be absorbed through the skin. Advantageously Cand its derivatives are also thermally and photochemically stable minimal photobleaching .

The present invention relates in one aspect to compositions comprising a functionalized substituted derivatized fullerene comprising a fullerene core C where n is an even integer greater than or equal to 60 and at least one functional group bonded to at least one carbon atom of the fullerene core.

Rand Rare independently selected from the group consisting of C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccycloalkyl aryl C Calkyl heteroaryl C Calkyl or a group of the formula C O N R R R or

ZRRtaken in combination form a 3 20 member heterocyclic ring having 1 6 ring heteroatoms selected from nitrogen and phosphorus and having at least one quaternary ammonium cation or quaternary phosphonium cation 

Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen or a group selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccycloalkyl C C aryl C Calkyl and heteroaryl C Calkyl each of which groups is substituted with 0 3 substituents selected from hydroxy amino mono di or tri C Calkyl amino halogen quaternary ammonium cations quaternary phosphonium cations 

Ris absent hydrogen or a group selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccycloalkyl C Ccycloalkyl aryl C Calkyl and heteroaryl C Calkyl each of which groups is substituted with 0 3 substituents selected from hydroxy amino mono di or tri C Calkyl amino halogen quaternary ammonium cations quaternary phosphonium cations 

Xand Xare independently selected at each occurrence from the group consisting of CHand CHR wherein Ris a C Calkyl which is independently selected at each occurrence of R 

n is a positive integer corresponding to the net positive charge of the substituted buckminsterfullerene cation and

Certain other compounds of formula I include those compounds in which the C60 fullerene is substituted by a Cn fullerene wherein n is an integer of between 50 and about 84.

Another embodiment is a compound according to formula I referred to herein as compounds of formula II wherein

ZRRtaken in combination form a 6 20 member heterocyclic ring having 1 6 ring heteroatoms selected from nitrogen and phosphorus and having at least one quaternary ammonium cation or quaternary phosphonium cation 

Rand Rare independently selected from hydrogen or a group selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccycloalkyl C C aryl C Calkyl and heteroaryl C Calkyl each of which groups is substituted with 0 3 substituents selected from hydroxy amino di or tri C Calkyl amino halogen quaternary ammonium cations quaternary phosphonium cations and

Ris absent hydrogen or a group selected from C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccycloalkyl C Ccycloalkyl aryl C Calkyl and heteroaryl C Calkyl each of which groups is substituted with 0 3 substituents selected from hydroxy amino mono di or tri C Calkyl amino halogen quaternary ammonium cations quaternary phosphonium cations.

Ris C Calkyl substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from hydroxy amino di or tri C Calkyl amino and quaternary ammonium cations 

Ris hydrogen C Calkyl substituted with 0 3 substitutents selected from hydroxy amino and quaternary ammonium cations and

Ris absent hydrogen or C Calkyl substituted with 0 3 substitutents selected from hydroxy amino di or tri C Calkyl amino and quaternary ammonium cations.

Rand Rare independently selected from methyl ethyl 2 N N dimethylamino ethyl 3 N N dimethylamino propyl 2 N N N trimethylammonium ethyl or 3 N N N trimethylammonium propyl.

ZRR taken in combination form a 7 20 member heterocyclic ring having 2 to 6 nitrogen atoms wherein at least one of the nitrogen atoms is a quaternary ammonium cation. Formula V .

Another embodiment is a compound according to formula V referred to herein as formula VI wherein ZRRis a heterocyclic ring of the formula 

Ris independently selected at each occurrence from hydrogen C Calkyl substituted with 0 3 substitutents selected from hydroxy amino and quaternary ammonium cations and

Ris independently selected at each occurrence from absent hydrogen or C Calkyl substituted with 0 3 substitutents selected from hydroxy amino di or tri C Calkyl amino and quaternary ammonium cations and wherein at least one NRRis a quaternary ammonium cation or is substituted by a quaternary ammonium cation.

Rare independently selected from methyl ethyl 2 N N dimethylamino ethyl 3 N N dimethylamino propyl 2 N N N trimethylammonium ethyl or 3 N N N trimethylammonium propyl.

The chemical structures of certain preferred embodiments of the fullerene based photosensitizer compounds of the invention are shown in Table 2.

Synthetic schemes for particular functionalized fullerene PS are further described in Examples 1 4 infra.

A pharmaceutical composition in accordance with the invention can contain a suitable concentration of an active agent i.e. a functionalized fullerene compound and may also comprise certain other components. For example in some embodiments pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are formulated with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients such as water saline aqueous dextrose glycerol or ethanol and may also contain auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents and pH buffering agents in addition to the active agent.

The pharmaceutical composition can also comprise or can be applied in combination with an optical clearing agent to enhance the photoactive effectiveness of the funcionalized fullerene compound by allowing more effective penetration of light through tissue. At visible and near infrared wavelengths optical scattering dominates over absorption and is much more significant in reducing light penetration into biological tissues. Optical clearing is a method for inducing a transient reduction in optical scattering by biological tissue. Studies have demonstrated increased light penetration depth using hyperosmotically active chemical agents such as glycerol propylene glycol ethylene glycol DMSO glucose or dextrose oleic acid linoleic acid etc. which are applied to the skin or tissue. Various mechanisms for optical clearing have been proposed. Although the mechanism of optical clearing is still not entirely understood it has been inferred that hyperosmotic agents reduce random scattering primarily by better refractive index matching dehydration and collagen dissociation.

One or more optical clearing agents can be applied to tissue simultaneously with the pharmaceutical composition as a combined formulation. Alternatively one or more optical clearing agents can be applied some time prior to the application of the pharmaceutical composition as a separate formulation. One or more optical clearing agents can be applied to tissue simultaneously with the application of light or can be applied some time prior to the application of light.

The pharmaceutical composition can further comprise or be used in combination with a permeation enhancer also termed an absorption enhancer which promotes the distribution and penetration of the functionalized fullerene compound in the tissue being treated by PDT. Examples include but are not be limited to DMSO polyethylene glycol nonionic surfactants ionic surfactants vitamin A and steroids.

The invention also includes kits for killing microbes and or treating microbial infections in a subject comprising a functionalized fullerene compound and instructions for using the functionalized fullerene compound to kill the microbe or to treat the infection in accordance with the methods described herein.

The kits of the invention have many applications. For example the kits can be used to provide reagents and therapeutics for killing microbes in a subject or associated with inanimate objects. The kits of the invention include instructions for the reagents equipment test tubes reaction vessels needles syringes etc. standards for calibrating the administration and or equipment provided or used to conduct the treatment. The standard or control information can be compared to a test sample to determine for example if the dosage is correct.

Photodynamic therapy according to the present invention may be utilized in the eradication of microcellular organisms such as bacteria acellular organisms and cells infected with microcellular and acellular organisms. Acellular organisms are defined broadly to include organisms not composed of cells e.g. bodies of protoplasm made discrete by an enveloping membrane also referred to as a capsule envelope or capsid . Examples of acellular organisms include but are not limited to viruses spores fungi and other virus like agents such as viroids plasmids prions and virinos and other infectious particles. Acellular and microcellular organisms are collectively referred to herein as microbes.

Structures of cellular and acellular organisms are described as follows. Procaryotic cells are cellular organisms including bacteria. The component structures of procaryotic cells include appendages cell envelope and protoplasm. The cell envelope further includes the glycocalyx capsules slime layers cell wall and cell membrane. All bacterial cells invariably have a cell envelope glycocalyx cell membrane ribosomes and a nucleoid the majority have a cell wall. Although they are common to many species flagella pili fimbriae capsules slime layers and granules are not universal components of all bacteria. Organisms of the genera and referred to as obligate intracellular bacteria are prokaryotes that differ from most other bacteria with respect to their very small size and obligate intracellular parasitism.

Eucaryotic cells are typical of certain microbial groups fungi algae protozoans and helminth worms as well as all animal and plants. Eucaryotic cells have component structures including appendages surface structures cytoplasmic membrane nucleus cytoplasm cytoskeleton and ribosomes. The surface structures may include glycocalyx capsules and slimes.

Virus particles are not cells and they neither possess procaryotic nor eucaryotic structural qualities. Instead they are large complex macromolecules with parts made up of repeating molecular subunits. Virus particles include component structures of a covering and a central core. The covering includes a capsid and in some viruses an envelope. All viruses have a protein capsid or shell that surrounds the nucleic acid strand. Members of 12 of the 17 families of animal viruses possess an additional covering external to the capsid called an envelope which is actually a modified piece of the hosts cell membrane. Viruses that lack this envelope are considered naked nucleocapsids. Special virus like infectious agents include the prion proteinacious infectious particles and viroids.

Photodynamic compositions of the present invention can be utilized in the eradication of microcellular organisms acellular organisms and cells infected with microcellular and acellular organisms. Particularly preferred photodynamic compositions are based on functionalized fullerenes as discussed in further detail infra. Photodynamic compositions of the invention may be provided in a liquid gaseous or solid form including but not limited to liquids solutions topical ointments or powders.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed to a method for providing antimicrobial therapy comprising 

administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of a composition comprising a functionalized fullerene compound wherein the functionalized fullerene compound is any one of the compounds as described above 

directing light onto the administered functionalized fullerene compound to produce a cytotoxic species and

killing microbial cells associated with or proximal to the functionalized fullerene compound thereby providing antimicrobial therapy.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a method for killing a microbe comprising 

providing a composition comprising a functionalized fullerene compound wherein the functionalized fullerene is any one of the compounds as described above 

killing the microbe associated with or proximal to the functionalized fullerene compound by reaction with the cytotoxic species. Methods of the invention permit but do not require direct contact with the microbe of interest. Typically production of a cytotoxic species proximal to the microbe is sufficient to kill the microbe.

An effective amount of a functionalized fullerene compound is an amount sufficient to effect a beneficial or desired clinical result e.g. a photodynamic effect . An effective amount can be administered in one or more doses. In terms of treatment an effective amount is an amount that is sufficient to palliate ameliorate stabilize reverse or slow the progression of a condition caused by infection. The effective amount is generally determined by the physician on a case by case basis and is within the skill of one in the art. In accordance with certain preferred aspects of the invention an effective amount of a functionalized fullerene compound of the invention is defined as an amount sufficient to yield an acceptable antimicrobial effect i.e. to kill pathogens such as bacteria yeast fungus etc. with minimal adverse effect on the cells of the mammalian subject of the PDT treatment.

As a rule the dosage for in vivo therapeutics will vary. Several factors are typically taken into account when determining an appropriate dosage. These factors include age sex and weight of the patient the condition being treated and the severity of the condition.

Suitable dosages and formulations of functionalized fullerene compound can be empirically determined by the administering physician. Standard texts such as Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 17th edition Mack Publishing Company and the Physician s Desk Reference each of which is incorporated herein by reference can be consulted to prepare suitable compositions and doses for administration. A determination of the appropriate dosage is within the skill of one in the art given the parameters for use described herein.

Administration can be in any order. Typically the functionalized fullerene compound is administered followed by application of light. A light source is utilized to practice embodiments of the present invention. The light source may be laser light source a high intensity flash lamp a light emitting diode LED or other illumination source as appreciated by those skilled in the relevant arts. A broad spectrum light source may be utilized however a narrow spectrum light source is one preferred light source. The light source may be selected with reference to the specific photosensitive material as photosensitive materials may have an associated range of photoactivation. In some instances a laser light source may be used to practice the present invention. A variety of laser light sources is currently available and the selection of a particular laser light source for implementing the PDT would readily be appreciated by those skilled in the relevant arts. A laser source may be selected with regard to the choice of wavelength beam diameter exposure time and sensitivity of the cellular and or acellular organisms.

In preferred embodiments the light source is utilized for a period of time necessary to effect a photodynamic response. The period of time for photodynamic activation of the photosensitive material is preferably between 5 seconds and 1 hour. Even more preferably the period of time for light illumination is between 2 and 20 minutes.

A variety of light delivery devices may be utilized to practice the present invention. A hand manipulable light wand or fiber optic device may be used to illuminate tissue within a living body. Such fiber optic devices may include a disposable fiber optic guide provided in kit form with a solution containing a photosensitive material. Other potential light devices for use in accordance with the present invention include the devices disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 159 236 entitled Expandable treatment device for photodynamic therapy and method of using same and U.S. Pat. No. 6 048 359 entitled Spatial orientation and light sources and method of using same for medical diagnosis and photodynamic therapy both incorporated by reference in their entireties herein.

Repeat administrations of a treatment protocol may also be necessary or desired including repeat administrations of photosensitive functionalized fullerenes and light activation. The repeat administrations may include different photosensitive materials and or different compounds than earlier administered. Repeat administrations of the treatment protocol may continue for a period of time.

In general an effective amount of a functionalized fullerene compound will be in the range of from about 0.1 to about 10 mg by injection or from about 5 to about 100 mg orally. Such dosages may vary for example depending on whether multiple administrations are given tissue type and route of administration the condition of the individual the desired objective and other factors known to those of skill in the art.

Compositions of the present invention are administered by a mode appropriate for the form of composition. Available routes of administration include subcutaneous intramuscular intraperitoneal intradermal oral intranasal intrapulmonary i.e. by aerosol intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously intracavity intrathecally or transdermally alone or in combination with other pharmaceutical agents. Therapeutic compositions of photosensitizers are often administered by injection or by gradual perfusion or by topical application to the skin or mucous membrane in need of treatment.

Compositions for oral intranasal or topical administration can be supplied in solid semi solid or liquid forms including tablets capsules powders liquids and suspensions. Compositions for injection can be supplied as liquid solutions or suspensions as emulsions or as solid forms suitable for dissolution or suspension in liquid prior to injection. For administration via the respiratory tract a preferred composition is one that provides a solid powder or liquid aerosol when used with an appropriate aerosolizer device. Although not required compositions are preferably supplied in unit dosage form suitable for administration of a precise amount. Also contemplated by this invention are slow release or sustained release forms whereby a relatively consistent level of the active compound are provided over an extended period.

Another method of administration is intravascular for instance by direct injection into the blood vessels of the infected tissue or surrounding area.

Further it may be desirable to administer the compositions locally to the area in need of treatment. This can be achieved for example by local infusion during surgery by injection by means of a catheter or by means of an implant said implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including membranes such as silastic membranes or fibers. A suitable such membrane is Gliadel provided by Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc.

In alternative embodiments photodynamic compositions of the invention can be used to sterilize inanimate objects which harbor microbes such as surfaces liquids e.g. bood products bodily fluids surgical equipment textile products and the like.

Infectious diseases and conditions affect a wide range of tissues of one or more organs or organ systems of the body including but are not limited to the peripheral nervous system hematological system bone marrow the central nervous system skin appendix gastrointestinal tract including but not limited to esophagus duodenum and colon respiratory pulmonary system including but not limited to lung nose pharynx larynx eye genito reproductive system gums liver biliary ductal system renal system including but not limited to kidneys urinary tract bladder connective tissue including but not limited to joints cartilage cardiovascular system muscle heart spleen breast lymphatic system ear endocrine exocrine system including but not limited to lacrimal glands salivary glands thyroid gland pancreas and bone skeletal system.

Both gram negative and gram positive bacteria can be killed by the methods of the invention. Such gram positive bacteria include but are not limited to species species and species including . Gram negative bacteria include but are not limited to species and species.

Specific examples of infectious bacteria susceptible to killing by the PDT methods and compositions of the invention include but are not limited to sps e.g. Group A Group B viridans group anaerobic sps. pathogenic sp. sp. sp. sp. and

Fungi can also be killed by antimicrobial PDT in accordance with the invention. Examples of fungi include and

Other infectious organisms that can be targeted e.g. protists include spp. such as and and . Blood borne and or tissues parasites include spp. spp. and African sleeping sickness Chagas disease and

Other medically relevant microorganisms have been described extensively in the literature e.g. see C. G. A Thomas Bailliere Tindall Great Britain 1983 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following examples. These examples however are merely intended to illustrate the embodiments of the invention and are not to be construed to limit the scope of the invention.

This Example describes the synthesis of a series of functionalized nonionic Cfullerene derivatives with one two or three polar diserinol groups e.g. NI1 NI2 NI3 as shown in Table 2 supra .

Serinol 2.05 equivalents and diethylmalonate 1 equivalent were reacted at 200 C. for 45 minutes in an open tube. Then acetic anhydride 4.1 equivalents and pyridine 4.1 equivalents were added and stirred for 18 hours at room temperature. The product termed MSA thus obtained was recrystallized using a mixture of hexane and ethyl acetate.

Purified C 200 mg 0.28 mmol was dissolved in toluene 250 ml by sonicating for 10 minutes and nitrogen was purged for 30 minutes. Then CB 46.1 mg 0.14 mmol as a solid directly MSA 58.2 mg. 0.14 mmol in acetone 3 ml and 1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 31.7 mg 0.21 mmol in toluene 5 ml were added. The reaction mixture as stirred at room temperature for 4.5 hours under nitrogen atmosphere. Solvents were removed on a rotavap under vacuum. The product was dissolved in a minimum amount of chloroform and loaded onto a silica gel column 1 in 9 in and eluted with dichloromethane containing 0 2 methanol to collect pure N11 N12 and N13. The compounds were characterized by matrix assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry MALDI MS as follows N11 calculated mass 1137.02 and observed mass 1137.56 N12 calculated mass 1553.40 and observed mass 1153.77 N13 calculated mass 1969.78 and observed mass 1970.26.

NMR data were obtained for C MSA protected NI1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl TMS ref. ppm 2.10 s 12H CH 4.34 4.41 m 8H CH 4.68 4.72 m 2H CH 7.37 br d J 56.4 Hz 2H NH .

Deprotection of OH groups was achieved by treating NI1 3 with an excess of potassium carbonate in methanol and deionized water at room temperature for 90 minutes. Potassium ions were removed by adding strong cation exchange resin Biorad AG MP 50W treated with 1M HCl to the reaction mixture until the pH reached 7. The solution was filtered and solvents were removed on a rotavap to obtain pure NI1 NI2 and NI3.

This Example describes a scheme for synthesis of cationic fullerene derivatives e.g. CI1 CI2 and CI3 as illustrated in Table 2 supra .

The synthesis of compounds CI1 3 was carried out using published procedures Wharton T. Kini V. U. Mortis R. A. and Wilson L. J. 2001 . New non ionic highly water soluble derivatives of C60 designed for biological compatibility. 42 5159 5162 Wharton T. and Wilson L. J. 2002 . Highly iodinated fullerene as a contrast agent for X ray imaging. 10 3545 3554 Maggini M. Scorrano G. and Prato M. 1993 . Addition of azomethine ylides to C60 synthesis characterization and functionalization of fullerene pyrrolidines. 115 9798 9799 and Cassell A. M. Scrivens W. A. and Tour J. M. 1998 . Assembly of DNA fullerene hybrid materials. 37 1528 1530 with modifications as described below and illustrated in Scheme 2.

Purified C 200 mg 0.28 mmol was dissolved in toluene 260 ml by sonicating for 5 minutes. To this solution were added sarcosine 50.8 mg 0.57 mmol and paraformaldehyde 40.9 mg 1.36 mmol for CI1 sarcosine 63.5 mg 0.71 mmol and paraformaldehyde 35.79 mg 1.19 mmol for CI2 or sarcosine 88.9 mg 1.0 mmol and paraformaldehyde 46.0 mg 1.53 mmol for CI3 as solids directly. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 2 hours for CI1 overnight for CI2 and 3 hours for CI3. Solvents were removed on a rotavap under vacuum.

The product was dissolved in a minimum amount of toluene and loaded onto a silica gel column 1 in 9 in packed with toluene and eluted with toluene containing 0 5 acetone to collect pure CI1 CI2 or CI3 with yields of 30 40 purity. The purity of the compounds in terms of nono bis and tris substitutions was confirmed by thin layer chromotography TLC .

Methylation of CI1 CI2 or CI3 was carried out by dissolving the compounds in a large excess of methyl iodide 1 ml per 20 mg CI1 3 and stirring for 48 72 hours at room temperature or 7 days in the case of CI3 . Pure methylated products CI1 CI2 or CI3 were precipitated by adding hexanes and the precipitates were collected washed with toluene and dichloromethane and dried. The compounds were characterized by electrospray mass spectrometry ES MS as follows CI1 calculated mass 792.08 and observed mass 792.04 CI2 calculated mass 864.16 and observed mass 432.05 M and CI3 calculated mass 936.24 and observed mass 312.08 M .

NMR data were obtained for CI1 as follows H NMR 400 MHz 2 3 CDCl DMSO d TMS ref. ppm 4.08 s 6H CH 5.72 s 4H CH . Referring to UV visible absorption spectra of the compounds were recorded in 1 9 DMSO water at a concentration of 10 mM. More particularly shows UV Visible absorption spectra of CI1 3 and toluidine blue O TBO at 10 M concentration in 1 9 DMSO water.

This Example describes a scheme for synthesis of nitrogenous fullerene derivatives e.g. N1 as illustrated in Table 2 supra .

Purified C 360 mg 0.5 mmol was dissolved in toluene 180 ml by sonicating for 30 minutes and nitrogen was purged for 15 minutes. Then CBr 83 mg 0.25 mmol as solid directly 1 4 8 11 tetraazacyclotetradecane 5 7 dione 57 mg 0.25 mmol in methanol 1 ml and toluene 9 ml and DBU 57 mg 0.375 mmol in toluene 10 ml were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 24 hours under nitrogen atmosphere. The product N1 was precipitated and filtered washed with toluene and dried.

Methylation of N1 was carried out by suspending in a large excess of methyl iodide and stirring for 72 hours at room temperature. The methylated product N1 was precipitated and which was collected and washed with toluene and dichloromethane and dried.

The synthesis of cationic compounds CI4 and CI5 was carried out as described below and illustrated in Scheme 4.

For synthesis of diquat 21 CH N CH NH 2.05 equivalents and dimethylmalonate 1 equivalent were dissolved in toluene and reacted at 100 C. for 2 hours. The solvents were removed on a rotavap and added hexanes. The product was cooled in a refrigerator overnight and filtered. The product obtained as a pink waxy solid.

For synthesis of diquat 31 CH N CH NH 2.05 equivalents and dimethylmalonate 1 equivalent were reacted at 120 C. for 2 hours. The solvents were removed on a rotavap. The product was obtained as a high viscous pale yellow liquid after vacuum drying for 60 hours at 20 C.

For synthesis of CI4 and CI5 purified C 360 mg 0.5 mmol was dissolved in toluene 180 ml by sonicating for 15 minutes and nitrogen was purged for 15 minutes. Then CBr 83 mg 0.25 mmol as a solid directly diquat 0.25 mmol in toluene 5 ml toluene 9 ml and DBU 57 mg 0.375 mmol in toluene 10 ml were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours under nitrogen atmosphere. The product C diquat was precipitated and filtered washed with toluene and dried.

Methylation of C diquat was carried out by dissolving the compounds in a large excess of methyl iodide and stirring for 72 hours at room temperature. The methylated product was precipitated and collected washed with toluene and dichloromethane and dried. The compounds were characterized by electrospray mass spectrometry ES MS as follows. CI4 calculated mass 993.03 and observed mass 496.09 M CI5 calculated mass 1021.08 and observed mass 510.11 M .

This Example describes one aspect of the characterization determination of absorption spectra of functionalized fullerenes NI1 3 and CI1 3 of the invention.

Functionalized fullerenes NI1 3 and CI1 3 were prepared as described above. There are eight possible regioisomers of the bis substituted fullerenes and 46 possible regioisomers of the tris substituted fullerenes. It was not practical to separate these mixtures of regioisomers into individual pure compounds therefore NI2 and NI3 and CI2 and CI3 were studied as mixtures of regioisomers. The identity of the compounds however was confirmed by mass spectrometry giving molecular ions identical to those calculated. The proton and C13 NMR spectra of the immediate precursors of BF1 and BF4 have been reported Wharton T. Kini V. U. Mortis R. A. and Wilson L. J. 2001 . New non ionic highly water soluble derivatives of C60 designed for biological compatibility. 42 5159 5162 Maggini M. Scorrano G. and Prato M. 1993 . Addition of azomethine ylides to C60 synthesis characterization and functionalization of fullerene pyrrolidines. 115 9798 9799 .

The absorption spectra of CI1 3 and TBO all at the same concentration of 10 M in DMSO water i.e. 1 9 are shown in . The overall extinction coefficients of the fullerenes were in the following order CI1 CI2 CI3. The shoulder in the UVA range moved from 340 nm for CI1 to 310 nm for CI2 and disappeared altogether for CI3 .

This Example describes studies performed to determine the distribution coefficients of fullerenes NI1 3 and CI1 3 of the invention.

Each compound was dissolved in a minimum amount of DMSO CI1 0.9 mg in 200 l CI2 5.3 mg in 200 l CI3 5.4 mg in 200 l . Ten ml of DI water and 10 ml of 1 octanol were added in each compound and vigorously shaken for 2 min. and the vials of the compounds were settled down overnight. The phases were separated and UV spectra of each phase were analyzed. Distribution coefficient of each compound was determined using absorbance of aqueous phases and organic phases at 330 nm.

The results of these determinations are presented in Table 2. Referring to Table 2 it will be appreciated that the hydrophilic character of fullerene derivatives increases with increasing number of cationic functional groups whereas hydrophilicity decreases with increasing number of serinol groups.

This Example describes exemplary materials and methods useful for testing antimicrobial activity of derivatized fullerenes prepared in accordance with the invention.

Toluidine blue O TBO a common PS is available from commercial sources e.g. from Sigma St. Louis Mo. and was dissolved in water to give a 1 mM stock solution that is stored in the dark at 4 C. for a maximum of 2 weeks.

A noncoherent lamp with filtered liquid light guides e.g. a LumaCare LC122 lamp MBG Technologies Inc. Newport Beach Calif. was used to provide illumination of PS. More specifically for illumination of fullerenes a broad band white light band pass filter 400 700 nm was used whereas for TBO a band pass filter at 620 650 nm was used. The lamp was adjusted to give a uniform spot of about 4 cm diameter with an irradiance of 200 mW cm as measured with a power meter e.g. a model DMM 199 meter with 201 Standard head Coherent Santa Clara Calif. .

Typically derivatized fullerenes prepared as described above are dissolved in DMSO to provide stock solutions having final concentrations of about 5 mM. Compound CI1 is poorly soluble accordingly a concentration of 2.7 mM can be used. All stock solutions were stored in the dark at room temperature.

In some experiments for example in studies described in Examples below suspensions of cells 10per ml were incubated with derivatized fullerenes such as NI 1 3 and CI1 3 at a concentration of 100 M in PBS at room temperature for 10 min. In other experiments the bacterial suspension was centrifuged 4000 g for 10 min after incubation and resuspended in fresh PBS before illumination the latter procedure was referred to herein as a wash. and were used at concentrations of about 10cells per ml.

Illumination was carried out from above on microbial cell suspensions in wells of a 24 well plate. Aliquots were removed at times corresponding to the delivery of calculated fluences of light and were serially diluted in PBS and streaked on square BHI or YM agar plates according to the method of Jett et al. Jett B. D. Hatter K. L. Huycke M. M. and Gilmore M. S. 1997 . Simplified agar plate method for quantifying viable bacteria. 23 648 650 . Survival fractions were calculated with reference to cells incubated in PBS alone. Values on killing curves at 0 J cmrepresent the dark toxicity of the fullerenes or other PS tested. Control cells were treated with light and no PS and also analyzed for viability.

Experiments to test the effect of functionalized fullerenes on mammalian cells can be performed in a suitable mammalian cell line. One such cell line is the L929 murine fibroblast line ATCC CCL1 a spontaneously transformed immortalized cell line established from the normal subcutaneous areolar and adipose tissue of a male C3H An mouse Earle W. R. Schilling E. L. Stark T. H. Straus N. P. Brown M. F. and Shelton E. 1943 . Production of malignancy in vitro. IV. The mouse fibroblast cultures and changes seen in the living cells. 4 165 212 . In a suitable assay these cells were cultured in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium Sigma at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere containing 5 CO2. The medium is preferably modified by using 4 mM L glutamine containing 1.5 g l sodium bicarbonate and 4.5 g l glucose 10 fetal bovine serum FBS 100 U ml penicillin and 100 mg ml streptomycin. Cells were plated in 96 well cell culture plates at a density of about 300 cells well and are allowed to attach for 24 hr.

Fullerenes and other PS e.g. TBO were added at a concentration of about 10 M in 200 l complete medium per well. After 10 min fresh medium is added and the cultures were illuminated with white light for fullerenes or with red light for TBO . At the completion of the illumination period cells were returned to the incubator for 24 hr. Cell viability can be determined for example by using the MTT microculture tetrazolium assay a method of assessing cellular response to PDT Merlin J. L. Azzi S. Lignon D. Ramacci C. Zeghari N. and Guillemin F. 1992 . MTT assays allow quick and reliable measurement of the response of human tumour cells to photodynamic therapy. 28A 1452 1458. This assay involves the reduction of a colorless substrate i.e. 3 4 5 Dimethylthiazol 2 yl diphenyltetrazolium bromide Sigma St. Louis Mich. to an insoluble dark blue formazan product which is formed in proportion to the amount of succinate dehydrogenase activity in the mitochondria of living cells. After incubation with MTT for periods ranging from 4 to 8 hr the medium was aspirated from each well and 100 ml DMSO is added. The absorbance at 570 nm was read by a microplate reader e.g. a Spectra Max 340 PC Molecular Devices Sunnyvale Calif. . The fraction of cells surviving was calculated by dividing the mean absorbances of formazan produced from PDT treated cells by the mean absorbances from dark controls incubated with PS and kept at room temperature for periods of time equal to the irradiation times.

Preferably values are calculated and expressed as means and standard errors of at least six independent wells. Differences between killing curves were tested for significance at the highest comparable fluence by an unpaired two tailed Student s t test assuming equal or unequal variation in the standard deviations as appropriate. P values of less than 0.05 were considered significant.

This Example describes a series of experiments performed to test the ability of certain embodiments of derivatized fullerenes prepared as described above to act as effective antimicrobial PS against a range of bacterial strains and yeast.

Four microbial species were used in this study. Briefly was purchased from ATCC ATCC 25922 two clinical isolates were obtained UCBP PA 14 from L. Rahme Massachusetts General Hospital and PA 767K from Kim Lewis Tufts University slime deficient mutant of was obtained from Gerald B Pier Channing Laboratories . Yeast strain was purchased from ATCC ATCC 18804 . Exponential cultures obtained by reculturing stationary overnight cultures were used for all experiments. Bacteria were grown at 37 C. in BHI broth to a cell density of 10cells per mL. was grown 37 C. in YM medium to 10cells mL.

Six fullerene derivatives NI1 3 and CI1 3 were evaluated. Five of them were dissolved in DMSO to obtain a stock solutions of 5 M and one CI1 was poorly soluble and therefore the concentration of the stock solution was 2.7 M. Concentration of fullerene derivatives used in the experiments varied between 1 and 100 M.

Fullerene derivatives were mixed with microbial suspensions and incubated in the dark at room temperature for 10 minutes. Excess fullerenes were either washed out of or left in the suspensions before illumination. Aliquots of 100 L were placed on three well hanging drop slides and illuminated with either a 405 nm laser Nichia Chemical Industries at an irradiance of 100 mW cm or with white light at room temperature. White light was 400 700 nm Gaussian distribution from LumaCare lamp with filtered liquid light guide as described above.

During illumination aliquots of 20 L were taken to determine the colony forming units. The contents of the wells were mixed before sampling. The aliquots were serially diluted 10 fold in PBS without Ca Mgto give dilutions of 10 10times the original concentrations and were streaked horizontally on square BHI agar plates. Plates were incubated at 37 C. overnight. Colonies were counted and survival fraction was determined as percent of survival compared to control. Microbial suspensions incubated with fullerene derivatives in DMSO in the absence of light and bacteria illuminated in the absence of fullerene derivatives were used as controls. Fullerene derivatives and DMSO were not toxic for microorganisms in the dark and light alone did not cause cell destruction.

The ability of fullerenes NI1 3 and CI1 3 to mediate photodynamic inhibition PDI against the grain positive bacterium was initially tested at 100 M concentration for 10 minutes at light intensities 405 nm light ranging from 0 200 J cm. Referring now to it is seen that all fullerene derivatives at this concentration have significant activity in mediating PDI of however CI2 is the most potent.

Next both the drug dose and the light dose were reduced in an assay using CI2 to determine the lowest effective PDT parameters for killing . As can be seen from substantial killing 6 logs was achieved at 1 M concentration of the functionalized fullerene exposed to light intensity of 8 J cmmaking CI2 approximately 1000 times more potent than the other fullerene derivatives.

The Gram positive slime deficient bacterium is very susceptible to PDT. The antimicrobial activity of CI2 was further defined by exploring its photokilling abilities with other pathogenic microorganisms including the Gram negative bacterium and the challenging as well as the eukaryotic fungus . Referring now to it is seen that 10 20 M concentration and 16 J cmof 405 nm light is sufficient to achieve high levels of killing of each of these pathogens. A comparison of the killing obtained by illuminating with and without a wash of the cells revealed more killing after a wash as shown for in . This implies that the CI2 molecule is able to bind and penetrate the cell walls of these pathogens rather than merely generating cytotoxic species outside of the cells.

This Example describes PDI assays demonstrating that functionalized fullerenes in accordance with the present invention can effectively kill bacteria and yeast strains while sparing mammalian cells.

Mammalian cells used in these studies are a transformed mouse fibroblast cell line L929 described above. Microbes studied included bacterial strains and and yeast strain . All microbes and cells were cultured as described in Example 7 above. The concentration of fullerene derivatives was 10 M for all cells and microbes except for which the concentration was reduced to 1 M. Incubation time was 10 minutes in all cases. The survival fraction at 0 J cm2 gives dark toxicity of fullerene. It should be noted that MTT assay used for mammalian cells does not have as big a dynamic range as CFU assay used for microbes.

This Example describes studies undertaken to compare the killing efficiency of cationic fullerenes of the present invention with that of toluidine blue O TBO a well known antimicrobial photosensitizing agent.

TBO is used extensively for photodynamic inhibition PDI as discussed in many reported studies. For example TBO has been investigated for use in treating the gum disease gingivitis caused by bacteria and other pathogenic oral bacteria O157 H7 and buccal mucosa in rats multi drug resistant malignancies and human leukaemic T cells. Thus a comparison of fullerene based PS in accordance with the invention with TBO provides a measure of efficacy as compared with that of a well used and understood PS. This compound was chosen not only because it is widely used in PDI studies but also because it is cationic like CI1 3 and accordingly should associate with the negatively charged cell walls of bacterial pathogens.

In order to obtain a comparison of the CI1 3 photosensitizers with TBO PDI experiments were conducted with CI1 3 compounds and TBO at identical concentrations. In these studies the concentration of fullerene derivatives or TBO was 10 M for all microbes except where concentration was reduced to 1 M. Incubation time was 10 minutes in all cases. Survival fraction at 0 J cm2 gives dark toxicity of fullerene derivatives or TBO. Broad band white light was used for fullerene derivatives 400 700 nm and 620 650 nm red light was used for TBO.

Referring to it can be seen that under the same conditions all three of the tested cationic compounds i.e. CI1 3 exhibited PDI of the four microorganisms investigated and that is far superior to that of TBO. See also Example 14 infra.

This Example demonstrates that fullerene based PS agents in accordance with the present invention are less toxic at high light levels than is the commonly used photosensitizer toluidine blue O TBO .

At the fluences used to carry out PDI of pathogens the CI 3 cationic PS exhibited negligible toxicity to L929 mammalian cells see for example . Nevertheless the toxicity at high fluences was compared with that of TBO which is one of the few PS compounds that also exhibits relatively low mammalian toxicity.

Remarkably as shown in results of this study show that CI2 is considerably less toxic to mammalian cells at high fluences than TBO making it superior not only in PDI but also in its selectivity for microbes. See also Example 15 infra.

This Example describes further characterization of embodiments of functionalized derivatized fullerenes in accordance with the present invention with respect to their ability to mediate photodynamic inhibition PDI against gram negative and gram positive bacteria.

Derivatized fullerenes NI1 3 and CI1 3 were prepared as described above and used in assays to assess their potential to mediate PDI against the gram positive bacterium after 10 min incubations with 100 M concentrations of fullerenes under conditions of no wash or wash i.e. with or without centrifugation to remove the bacteria after the 10 minute incubation and resuspension in fresh PBS before illumination as described above.

The results of these experiments are shown in . More particularly shows results of experiments in which 10cells per ml were incubated as described then followed or not followed by a wash i.e. centrifugation and resuspension as described and subsequent illumination with 400 700 nm light at an irradiance of 200 mW cm. Aliquots were removed from the suspension after the various fluences of light 0 120 J cm had been delivered and the CFU had been determined. Values shown in are means of six independent experiments and bars are SEM. Single asterisks denote p

From the results of no wash experiments it was seen that compounds CI2 and CI3 were completely dark toxic to and gave zero colonies or 99.9999 killing regardless of the amount of light delivered. Compound CI1 showed significant dark toxicity 99 e.g. see first point of curve with squares in . Referring again to by contrast compounds NI1 3 show only minor dark toxicity toward i.e. 60 80 see .

When relatively large fluences of broad band white light were delivered to bacterial suspensions still containing the fullerenes a fluence dependent loss of viability of ranging from 2 4 logs of killing was observed as shown in closed symbols . Compounds NI1 3 displayed significant differences in effectiveness between members of the series. Their effectiveness was NI3 NI2 NI1 and the differences in the survival fraction were significant p

In order to test whether the fullerenes actually bound to the bacterial cells PDI was compared with and without a wash as described. As can be seen by comparing curves with open and closed symbols in there was no difference in killing with and without a wash indicating that the fullerenes bound to the bacteria and could not easily be washed out.

Compounds NI1 3 were also tested under the same conditions 100 M incubation for 10 min without wash with the gram negative bacteria . Referring to it is seen that there was no dark toxicity and only a very small amount of light mediated killing less than 90 . NI1 was significantly less effective than NI2 3 p

Compound CI1 showed significant dark toxicity toward at 100 M therefore the concentration of CI1 was decreased in the incubation mixture in a step wise manner to 50 25 10 and 1 M. These experiments carried out with a wash are illustrated in . More particularly shows PDI of under the specified conditions followed by a wash and illumination with white light. Values in the graphs represent means of six independent experiments and the bars are SEM.

As is shown in the dark toxicity decreased as the concentration was decreased until at 10 and 1 M dark toxicity was nonexistent. When PDI experiments were carried out after incubation of with these concentrations of CI1 a fluence dependent loss of viability was observed in all cases with comparatively low doses of light 4 8 J cm2 . Remarkably the PDI killing curves were not significantly different among the different concentrations compare the slopes of curves in . The difference between the curves was solely in the survival fraction at 0 J cm i.e. the dark toxicity.

Since an initial screening experiment had suggested that the bis and tris cationic fullerenes CI2 and CI3 would be more potent than CI1 higher dark toxicity they were tested against at 1 M with a wash. These results are shown in .

More particularly and for comparison and A B show PDI of various bacteria and yeast tested with cationic fullerene derivatives CI1 3 as follows incubated with a 1 M concentration of CI1 3 A B B A and B all at 10cells per ml incubated with CI1 3 at 10 M concentrations for 10 min followed by a wash and illumination with white light. Values are means of six independent experiments and bars are SEM. p

As shown in compounds CI2 and CI3 were highly active with 2 and 1 J cmof light being sufficient to kill 4 5 logs respectively. All three killing curves were significantly different p

As it is known that gram positive bacteria are much more susceptible to PDI than gram negative bacteria or fungal species Malik Z. Ladan H. and Nitzan Y. 1992 . Photodynamic inactivation of Gram negative bacteria problems and possible solutions. . B 14 262 266 Nitzan Y. Gutterman M. Malik Z. and Ehrenberg B. 1992 . Inactivation of Gram negative bacteria by photosensitized porphyrins. 55 89 96 the cationic fullerenes CI1 3 were tested against other microorganisms at a concentration of 10 M with a wash. shows the light mediated killing of gram negative with the three cationic fullerenes. It can be seen that CI2 and CI3 were highly effective with 2 J cmgiving 4 and 6 logs of killing respectively. CI1 was much less potent requiring 8 J cmto give 3 logs of killing p

Referring now to it is shown that effective killing was also achieved against the yeast in which CI3 was slightly more effective than CI2 and both were much better than CI1 p

As shown in the gram negative bacterium was more resistant than the other organisms tested. The maximum light dose delivered was doubled to 16 J cmin an effort to increase killing but this had only a minimal effect. CI2 and CI3 were able to kill 3 5 logs whereas CI1 gave 2 logs of killing of

This Example describes experiments to compare PDI of gram negative bacteria by the derivatized cationic fullerenes of the present invention with known photosensitizer TBO in the presence of serum.

In order to obtain an objective measure of how cationic fullerenes performed as antimicrobial photosensitizers they were compared as above with a widely used phenothiazinium dye i.e. TBO. In order to be able to directly compare the PDI mediated killing of bacteria with killing of mammalian cells by photodynamic therapy PDT 10 serum was added to the bacterial suspension because this is the standard growth condition used for mammalian fibroblasts. It has previously been shown that the addition of serum to bacterial PS incubations significantly reduces the effectiveness of the PS probably because the PS binds to serum proteins thus reducing the effective concentration available to bind to bacteria Wilson M. and Pratten J. 1995 . Lethal photosensitisation of in vitro effect of growth phase serum and pre irradiation time. 16 272 276 Lambrechts S. A. Aalders M. C. Verbraak F. D. Lagerberg J. W. Dankert J. B. and Schuitmaker J. J. 2005 . Effect of albumin on the photodynamic inactivation of microorganisms by a cationic porphyrin. . B 79 51 57 .

In these experiments the PDI of was tested using CI1 3 and TBO under the same conditions i.e. at 10 M concentration for a 10 min incubation in the presence of 10 FBS followed with a wash .

The results of this experiment are shown in and are compared with results from mammalian fibroblasts in . More particularly shows a comparison of PDI of and L929 fibroblasts incubated with either CI1 3 or TBO was incubated fullerenes CI1 3 or TBO under the conditions described and illumination with white or red light respectively .

Referring to it is seen that TBO was almost ineffective in mediating PDI of under these conditions. When the CI1 3 mediated killing of under these conditions is compared with that shown in i.e. with no serum it is seen that the effectiveness of CI1 was unchanged whereas the killing mediated by CI2 and CI3 was reduced by about 1 log in the presence of serum compare A .

Other experiments testing other microorganisms showed that TBO at the same concentration and fluence as was used for the fullerenes i.e. 1 M for and 10 M for both and produced less than 1 log of killing in the presence or absence of serum.

The above studies were performed in order to make comparisons between the effectiveness and selectivity of the cationic fullerenes with an established antimicrobial PS i.e. the phenothiazinium dye TBO under the same conditions. As discussed TBO has been widely used to kill multiple classes of microbes in vitro after illumination with red light Matevski D. Weersink R. Tenenbaum H. C. Wilson B. Ellen R. P. and Lepine G. 2003 . Lethal photosensitization of periodontal pathogens by a red filtered Xenon lamp in vitro. 38 428 435 52. Romanova N. A. Brovko L. Y. Moore L. Pometun E. Savitsky A. P. Ugarova N. N. and Griffiths M. W. 2003 . Assessment of photodynamic destruction of O157 H7 and by using ATP bioluminescence. 69 6393 6398 Soukos N. S. Wilson M. Burns T. and Speight P. M. 1996 . Photodynamic effects of toluidine blue on human oral keratinocytes and fibroblasts and evaluated in vitro. 18 253 259 Usacheva M. N. Teichert M. C. and Biel M. A. 2001 . Comparison of the methylene blue and toluidine blue photobactericidal efficacy against Gram positive and Gram negative microorganisms. 29 165 173 and Wilson M. 2004 . Lethal photosensitisation of oral bacteria and its potential application in the photodynamic therapy of oral infections. 3 412 418 . It has also been tested in several animal models of localized infections. Wong et al. Wong T. W. Wang Y. Y. Sheu H. M. and Chuang Y. C. 2005 . Bactericidal effects of toluidine blue mediated photodynamic action on 49 895 902 used topical TBO and red light to cure an otherwise fatal wound infection with in mice Komerik et al. Komerik N. Nakanishi H. MacRobert A. J. Henderson B. Speight P. and Wilson M. 2003 . In vivo killing of Porphyromo nasgingivalis by toluidine blue mediated photosensitization in an animal model. 47 932 940 used TBO and light to treat a rat model of periodontal infection and Teichert et al. Teichert M. C. Jones J. W. Usacheva M. N. and Biel M. A. 2002 . Treatment of oral candidiasis with methylene blue mediated photodynamic therapy in an immunodeficient murine model. 93 155 160 used the closely related phenothiazinium dye methylene blue combined with light to treat a mouse model of oral candidiasis.

In these studies TBO under the same conditions as cationic fullerenes i.e. 1 or 10 M 10 min incubation and up to 16 J cm2 of red light did not kill more than 90 of any of the microbial species. Therefore these studies show that exemplary cationic fullerenes CI2 and CI3 are many orders of magnitude more effective as antimicrobial agents than TBO a widely used antimicrobial PS.

In order to assess the selectivity of light mediated killing of microbes over mammalian cells mouse L929 fibroblasts were incubated with CI1 3 and with TBO under the same conditions i.e. 10 M concentration for 10 min in 10 FBS with a wash followed by delivery of white or red light respectively up to 120 J cm.

Results of this study are shown in and contrasted with the results for shown in . Referring to CI1 3 did show some dark toxicity 20 60 killing and some additional phototoxicity 20 30 toward L929 cells. However TBO displayed a different shape of killing curve with little dark toxicity but a pronounced light dependent toxicity until the limit of the viability assay was reached at 80 J cm.

To employ antimicrobial PS to treat localized infections in animals or patients it is necessary to address the question of selectivity of the PS for microbial cells as compared to host mammalian cells as was done in the above described experiments. This selectivity may be relatively easy to demonstrate because antimicrobial PDI is often carried out with relatively short incubation times minutes before illumination whereas mammalian cells in tissue culture are frequently incubated with PS for periods of hours even 24 hr . Hence if killing is compared between microbes and mammalian cells after a short incubation time it is likely to favor microbial killing.

Another difficulty in comparisons between killing microbes and mammalian cells depends upon differences in the viability assays employed in each case. The CFU assay for microorganisms can detect 6 logs of killing whereas the MTT assay for mammalian cell viability has a maximum detection limit of 2 logs of killing. These differences in assay methods notwithstanding it is nevertheless clear from the data presented herein that the fullerenes show a greater level of selectivity for microbes over mammalian cells than is observed for TBO under the same conditions .

The effectiveness of various photosensitizers PS considered for antimicrobial PDT can be judged on several criteria. Preferably the PS are able to kill multiple classes of microbes at relatively low PS concentrations and low fluences of light. PS should be reasonably nontoxic in the dark and should demonstrate selectivity for microbial cells over mammalian cells. PS should ideally have large extinction coefficients in the red part of the spectrum.

As disclosed herein cationic fullerenes fulfill many of these criteria. As shown in the fullerenes have broad absorption in the UV range with a tail that extends well into the visible spectrum to 550 nm in the case of CI1 . The UV absorption decreases as the number of substituents on the fullerene is increased and consequently the degree of conjugation is decreased. TBO however like many other PS used for PDT and PDI has an absorption peak in the red at 635 nm. Many reports show that PDT in vivo is more effective with red light and near infrared light as both the absorption and scattering of light by tissue decrease as the wavelength increases Anderson R. R. and Parrish J. A. 1981 . The optics of human skin. 77 13 19 . A broad band pass filter that gives an output of the entire visible spectrum 400 700 nm was used to excite the fullerenes that maximized the absorption by the tail in the visible range. UV light was not used to excite the fullerenes as UV light is highly germicidal and can kill most microorganisms. shows that the effective absorption of the delivered wavelength ranges was not very different between the fullerenes and TBO.

Screening experiments carried out against at a 100 M concentration show that a Cfullerene series substituted with pyrrolidinium groups exemplified by compounds CI1 3 behaves very differently from a Cseries substituted with di serinol groups exemplified by compounds NI1 3 . The cationic fullerenes give high levels of dark toxicity except for CI1 whereas the di serinol functionalized Cshow a typical loss of colony forming ability that is light dose dependent. However cationic fullerenes were highly effective PS at lower concentrations. This finding agrees with reports that PS with one or preferably more cationic groups are efficient antimicrobial PS Hamblin M. R. and Hasan T. 2004 . Photodynamic therapy a new antimicrobial approach to infectious disease 3 436 450 Minnock A. Vernon D. I. Schofield J. Griffiths J. Parish J. H. and Brown S. B. 1996 . Photoinactivation of bacteria. Use of a cationic water soluble zinc phthalocyanine to photoinactivate both Gram negative and Gram positive bacteria. 32 159 164 Merchat M. Bertolini G. Giacomini P. Villanueva A. and Jori G. 1996 . Meso substituted cationic porphyrins as efficient photosensitizers of Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria. 32 153 157 Demidova T. N. and Hamblin M. R. 2004 . Photodynamic therapy targeted to pathogens. 17 245 254 Demidova T. N. and Hamblin M. R. 2005 . Effect of cell photo sensitizer binding and cell density on microbial photoinactivation. 49 2329 2335 . Quarternary nitrogen based groups are superior to primary secondary or tertiary amino groups as the positive charge is less dependent on the pH of the surrounding media or the pKa of the molecules with which the PS is interacting.

Microbial cells possess overall negative charges and it is thought that cationic PS bind to these groups on the outer layers of the cell surface. Gram positive and fungal cells have relatively permeable outer layers of peptidoglycan and lipoteichoic acid or glucan respectively although the mannan layer of species can present a permeability barrier. This permeability allows cationic and to a lesser extent noncationic PS to diffuse inward to the plasma membrane a site at which the generation of reactive oxygen species under illumination can damage the membrane structure allowing for leakage of essential components and causing cell death. Our finding that NI1 3 are equally effective against the gram positive with and without a wash demonstrates that the neutrally charged fullerenes are indeed able to penetrate to a sufficient extent into the cell that they can not easily be washed out.

By contrast gram negative bacteria have a double membrane structure that presents a barrier to diffusion of many PS. Cationic compounds such as CI1 3 are able to displace divalent cations Caand Mg that play a role in the attachment of lipopolysaccharide to the outer membrane Lambrechts S. A. Aalders M. C. Langeveld Klerks D. H. Khayali Y. and Lagerberg J. W. 2004 . Effect of monovalent and divalent cations on the photoinactivation of bacteria with meso substituted cationic porphyrins. 79 297 302 . Such displacement is thought to weaken the structure of the outer permeability allowing the PS to penetrate further in a process that has been termed self promoted uptake Hancock R. E. and Bell A. 1988 . Antibiotic uptake into Gram negative bacteria. 7 713 720 .

In this disclosure it has been shown inter alia that bis and tris cationic fullerenes are highly active antimicrobial PS that mediate the destruction of a broad spectrum of microbial classes and show better selectivity for microbes over mammalian cells than TBO a widely used antimicrobial PS. Accordingly functionalized fullerenes and preferably cationic fullerenes hold great promise as effective antimicrobial photosensitizers particularly in those situations in which red light activation is not important for the light to penetrate deep into tissue.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims. All references disclosed herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

It is believed that a review of the following references will appreciate understanding of the present invention. Some of these documents are referred to throughout the present disclosure by a number as indicated below.

1. Kroto H. W. Heath J. R. O Brien S. C. Curl R. F. and Smalley R. E. 1985 . C60 Buckminsterfullerene. Nature 318 162 163.

2. Jensen A. W. Wilson S. R. and Schuster D. I. 1996 . Biological applications of fullerenes. Bioorg. Med. Chem. 4 767 779.

3. Bosi S. Da Ros T. Spalluto G. and Prato M. 2003 . Fullerene derivatives an attractive tool for biological applications. Eur. J. Med. Chem. 38 913 923.

4. Dugan L. L. Lovett E. G. Quick K. L. Lotharius J. Lin T. T. and O Malley K. L. 2001 . Fullerene based antioxidants and neurodegenerative disorders. Parkinsonism Relat. Disord. 7 243 246.

5. Tagmatarchis N. and Shinohara H. 2001 . Fullerenes in medicinal chemistry and their biological applications. Mini Rev. Med. Chem. 1 339 348.

6. Brettreich M. and Hirsch A. 1998 . A highly water soluble dendro 60 fullerene. Tetrahedron Lett. 39 2731 2734.

7. Da Ros T. Prato M. Novello F. Maggini M. and Banfi E. 1996 . Easy access to water soluble fullerene derivatives via 1 3 dipolar cycloadditions of azomethine ylides to C 60 . J. Org. Chem. 61 9070 9072.

8. Foley S. Crowley C. Smaihi M. Bonfils C. Erlanger B. F. Seta P. and Larroque C. 2002 . Cellular localisation of a water soluble fullerene derivative. Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 294 116 119.

9. Bosi S. Da Ros T. Spalluto G. Balzarini J. and Prato M. 2003 . Synthesis and anti HIV properties of new water soluble bis functionalized 60 fullerene derivatives. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 13 4437 4440.

10. Schinazi R. F. Sijbesma R. Srdanov G. Hill C. L. and Wudl F. 1993 . Synthesis and virucidal activity of a water soluble configurationally stable derivatized C60 fullerene. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 37 1707 1710.

11. Tsao N. Luh T. Y. Chou C. K. Wu J. J. Lin Y. S. and Lei H. Y. 2001 . Inhibition of group A infection by carboxyfullerene. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 45 1788 1793.

12. Dugan L. L. Gabrielsen J. K. Yu S. P. Lin T. S. and Choi D. W. 1996 . Buckminsterfullerenol free radical scavengers reduce excitotoxic and apoptotic death of cultured cortical neurons. Neurobiol. Dis. 3 129 135.

13. Jin H. Chen W. Q. Tang X. W. Chiang L. Y. Yang C. Y. Schloss J. V. and Wu J. Y. 2000 . Polyhydroxylated C 60 fullerenols as glutamate receptor antagonists and neuroprotective agents. J. Neurosci. Res. 62 600 607.

14. Tsai M. C. Chen Y. H. and Chiang L. Y. 1997 . Polyhydroxylated C60 fullerenol a novel free radical trapper prevented hydrogen peroxide and cumene hydroperoxide elicited changes in rat hippocampus in vitro. J. Pharm. Pharmacol. 49 438 445.

15. Mashino T. Nishikawa D. Takahashi K. Usui N. Yamori T. Seki M. Endo T. and Mochizuki M. 2003 . Antibacterial and antiproliferative activity of cationic fullerene derivatives. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 13 4395 4397.

16. Mashino T. Usui N. Okuda K. Hirota T. and Mochizuki M. 2003 . Respiratory chain inhibition by fullerene derivatives hydrogen peroxide production caused by fullerene derivatives and a respiratory chain system. Bioorg. Med. Chem. 11 1433 1438.

17. Mashino T. Shimotohno K. Ikegami N. Nishikawa D. Okuda K. Takahashi K. Nakamura S. and Mochizuki M. 2005 . Human immunodeficiency virus reverse transcriptase inhibition and hepatitis C virus RNA dependent RNA polymerase inhibition activities of fullerene derivatives. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 15 1107 1109.

18. Castano A. P. Demidova T. N. and Hamblin M. R. 2004 . Mechanisms in photodynamic therapy part one photosensitizers photochemistry and cellular localization. Photodiag. Photodyn. Ther. 1 279 293.

19. Yamakoshi Y. Umezawa N. Ryu A. Arakane K. Miyata N. Goda Y. Masumizu T. and Nagano T. 2003 . Active oxygen species generated from photoexcited fullerene C60 as potential medicines O2 versus 1O2. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125 12803 12809.

20. Liu Y. Zhao Y. L. Chen Y. Liang P. and Li L. 2005 . A water soluble bcyclodextrin derivative possessing a fullerene tether as an efficient photodriven DNA cleavage reagent. Tetrahedron Lett. 46 2507 2511.

21. Kasermann F. and Kempf C. 1997 . Photodynamic inactivation of enveloped viruses by buckminsterfullerene. Antiviral Res. 34 65 70.

22. Sera N. Tokiwa H. and Miyata N. 1996 . Mutagenicity of the fullerene C60 generated singlet oxygen dependent formation of lipid peroxides. Carcinogenesis 17 2163 2169.

23. Burlaka A. P. Sidorik Y. P. Prylutska S. V. Matyshevska O. P. Golub O. A. Prylutskyy Y. I. and Scharff P. 2004 . Catalytic system of the reactive oxygen species on the C60 fullerene basis. Exp. Oncol. 26 326 327.

24. Tabata Y. Murakami Y. and Ikada Y. 1997 . Photodynamic effect of polyethylene glycol modified fullerene on tumor. Jpn. J. Cancer Res. 88 1108 1116.

25. Moan J. and Peng Q. 2003 . An outline of the hundred year history of PDT. Anticancer Res. 23 3591 3600.

26. Dolmans D. E. Fukumura D. and Jain R. K. 2003 . Photodynamic therapy for cancer. Nat. Rev. Cancer 3 380 387.

27. Brown S. B. and Mellish K. J. 2001 . Verteporfin a milestone in opthalmology and photodynamic therapy. Expert Opin. Pharmacother. 2 351 361.

28. Wainwright M. 1998 . Photodynamic antimicrobial chemotherapy PACT . J. Antimicrob. Chemother. 42 13 28.

29. Maisch T. Szeimies R. M. Jori G. and Abels C. 2004 . Antibacterial photodynamic therapy in dermatology. Photochem. Photobiol. Sci. 3 907 917.

30. Hamblin M. R. and Hasan T. 2004 . Photodynamic therapy a new antimicrobial approach to infectious disease Photo chem. Photobiol. Sci. 3 436 450.

31. Minnock A. Vernon D. I. Schofield J. Griffiths J. Parish J. H. and Brown S. B. 1996 . Photoinactivation of bacteria. Use of a cationic water soluble zinc phthalocyanine to photoinactivate both Gram negative and Gram positive bacteria. J. Photochem. Photobiol. B 32 159 164.

32. Nitzan Y. Dror R. Ladan H. Malik Z. Kimel S. and Gottfried V. 1995 . Structure activity relationship of porphines for photoinactivation of bacteria. Photochem. Photobiol. 62 342 347.

33. Merchat M. Bertolini G. Giacomini P. Villanueva A. and Jori G. 1996 . Meso substituted cationic porphyrins as efficient photosensitizers of Gram positive and Gram negative bacteria. J. Photochem. Photobiol. B 32 153 157.

34. Minnock A. Vernon D. I. Schofield J. Griffiths J. Parish J. H. and Brown S. B. 2000 . Mechanism of uptake of a cationic water soluble pyridinium zinc phthalocyanine across the outer membrane of . Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 44 522 527.

35. Wharton T. Kini V. U. Mortis R. A. and Wilson L. J. 2001 . New non ionic highly water soluble derivatives of C60 designed for biological compatibility. Tetrahedron Lett. 42 5159 5162.

36. Wharton T. and Wilson L. J. 2002 . Highly iodinated fullerene as a contrast agent for X ray imaging. Bioorg. Med. Chem. 10 3545 3554.

37. Maggini M. Scorrano G. and Prato M. 1993 . Addition of azomethine ylides to C60 synthesis characterization and functionalization of fullerene pyrrolidines. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 115 9798 9799.

38. Cassell A. M. Scrivens W. A. and Tour J. M. 1998 . Assembly of DNA fullerene hybrid materials. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 37 1528 1530.

39. Malik Z. Ladan H. and Nitzan Y. 1992 . Photodynamic inactivation of Gram negative bacteria problems and possible solutions. J. Photochem. Photobiol. B 14 262 266.

40. Nitzan Y. Gutterman M. Malik Z. and Ehrenberg B. 1992 . Inactivation of Gram negative bacteria by photosensitized porphyrins. Photochem. Photobiol. 55 89 96.

41. Wilson M. and Pratten J. 1995 . Lethal photosensitisation of in vitro effect of growth phase serum and pre irradiation time. Lasers Surg. Med. 16 272 276.

42. Lambrechts S. A. Aalders M. C. Verbraak F. D. Lager berg J. W. Dankert J. B. and Schuitmaker J. J. 2005 . Effect of albumin on the photodynamic inactivation of microorganisms by a cationic porphyrin. J. Photochem. Photobiol. B 79 51 57.

44. Demidova T. N. and Hamblin M. R. 2004 . Photodynamic therapy targeted to pathogens. Int. J. Immunopathol. Pharmacol. 17 245 254.

45. Demidova T. N. and Hamblin M. R. 2005 . Effect of cell photo sensitizer binding and cell density on microbial photoinactivation. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 49 2329 2335.

46. Lambrechts S. A. Aalders M. C. Langeveld Klerks D. H. Khayali Y. and Lagerberg J. W. 2004 . Effect of monovalent and divalent cations on the photoinactivation of bacteria with meso substituted cationic porphyrins. Photochem. Photobiol. 79 297 302.

47. Hancock R. E. and Bell A. 1988 . Antibiotic uptake into Gram negative bacteria. Eur. J. Clin. Microbiol. Infect. Dis. 7 713 720.

48. Mashino T. Okuda K. Hirota T. Hirobe M. Nagano T. and Mochizuki M. 1999 . Inhibition of growth by fullerene derivatives and inhibition mechanism. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 9 2959 2962.

49. Hancock R. E. and Wong P. G. 1984 . Compounds which increase the permeability of the outer membrane. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 26 48 52.

51. Matevski D. Weersink R. Tenenbaum H. C. Wilson B. Ellen R. P. and Lepine G. 2003 . Lethal photosensitization of periodontal pathogens by a red filtered Xenon lamp in vitro. J. Periodontal Res. 38 428 435.

52. Romanova N. A. Brovko L. Y. Moore L. Pometun E. Savitsky A. P. Ugarova N. N. and Griffiths M. W. 2003 . Assessment of photodynamic destruction of O157 H7 and by using ATP bioluminescence. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 69 6393 6398.

53. Soukos N. S. Wilson M. Burns T. and Speight P. M. 1996 . Photodynamic effects of toluidine blue on human oral keratinocytes and fibroblasts and valuated in vitro. Lasers Surg. Med. 18 253 259.

54. Usacheva M. N. Teichert M. C. and Biel M. A. 2001 . Comparison of the methylene blue and toluidine blue photobactericidal efficacy against Gram positive and Gram negative microorganisms. Lasers Surg. Med. 29 165 173.

55. Wilson M. 2004 . Lethal photosensitisation of oral bacteria and its potential application in the photodynamic therapy of oral infections. Photochem. Photobiol. Sci. 3 412 418.

56. Wong T. W. Wang Y. Y. Sheu H. M. and Chuang Y. C. 2005 . Bactericidal effects of toluidine blue mediated photodynamic action on Vibrio vulnificus. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 49 895 902.

57. Komerik N. Nakanishi H. MacRobert A. J. Henderson B. Speight P. and Wilson M. 2003 . In vivo killing of by toluidine blue mediated photosensitization in an animal model. Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 47 932 940.

58. Teichert M. C. Jones J. W. Usacheva M. N. and Biel M. A. 2002 . Treatment of oral candidiasis with methylene blue mediated photodynamic therapy in an immunodeficient murine model. Oral Surg. Oral Med. Oral Pathol. Oral Radiol. Endod. 93 155 160.

59. Chen Y. W. Hwang K. C. Yen C. C. and Lai Y. L. 2004 . Fullerene derivatives protect against oxidative stress in RAW 264.7 cells and ischemia reperfused lungs. Am. J. Physiol. Regul. Integr. Comp. Physiol. 287 R21 R26.

60. Taylor A. E. 2004 . Fullerene derivatives protect against oxidative stress in murine macrophage line cells and ischemia reper fused lungs. Am. J. Physiol. Regul. Integr. Comp. Physiol. 287 R1 R2.

61. Hamano T. Okuda K. Mashino T. Hirobe M. Arakane K. Ryu A. Mashiko S. and Nagano T. 1997 . Singlet oxygen production from fullerene derivatives effect of sequential functionalization of the fullerene core. Chem. Commun. 21 22.

62. Jett B. D. Hatter K. L. Huycke M. M. and Gilmore M. S. 1997 . Simplified agar plate method for quantifying viable bacteria. Biotechniques 23 648 650.

63. Earle W. R. Schilling E. L. Stark T. H. Straus N. P. Brown M. F. and Shelton E. 1943 . Production of malignancy in vitro. IV. The mouse fibroblast cultures and changes seen in the living cells. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 4 165 212.

64. Merlin J. L. Azzi S. Lignon D. Ramacci C. Zeghari N. and Guillemin F. 1992 . MTT assays allow quick and reliable measurement of the response of human tumour cells to photodynamic therapy. Eur. J. Cancer 28A 1452 1458.

