---

title: Sequential, time-integrated collector of precipitation, ground water, and surface water for analysis of isotopes
abstract: A sequential, time-integrated collector having an electronic controller that actuates either of two electrically-actuated valves, each connected to a water reservoir. At a preset time interval (e.g., every 30 minutes), time-integrated water samples are transferred into sample vials in a multi-sample carousel. Evaporation that could change the isotopic composition of a precipitation sample is minimized by sealing the opening of each sample vial by pressing each vial against a flat, low-friction surface, such as a Teflon® sheet, from the time each sample vial is filled until it is removed from the collector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07687028&OS=07687028&RS=07687028
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Interior
number: 07687028
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060406
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefore.

The present invention is directed in general to water sample collectors and more particularly to the sequential time integrated collection of precipitation surface water and ground water samples for analysis.

Large land falling cyclones produce more than 8 inches of rain in 24 hours and impact the West Coast of the United States particularly Northern California. In such hydrologic events the amounts of chemicals and the amounts of isotopes vary in precipitation. The concentrations or relative changes in amounts of chemical constituents or isotopes may provide information to understand physical processes in these complex systems. To determine the relative amounts of oxygen and hydrogen isotopes precipitation samples need to be collected from these storms at 15 or 30 minute intervals over a period of 24 to 48 hours. Increased understanding of these storms should improve forecasting and allow the National Weather Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration NOAA to alert earlier the public the military and emergency services of these storms.

Various types of liquid sample collectors have been designed. Some collectors contain only one collection vessel such as a bottle and are used in bulk precipitation collection for acid rain studies for example. While other collectors contain 8 or 24 bottles these collectors only allow 4 or 12 hours worth of collections respectively assuming 30 minute collection intervals. These collectors are inadequate for applications in which 48 hours worth of collections at 30 minute collection intervals are needed. For these types of applications at least 96 collection vessels are needed to collect at least 96 separate water samples.

Collectors with sample vessels having volumes of 0.5 liter or greater have been used. These sample vessels are unsatisfactory due to the amount of headspace and consequent evaporation that results when low volume e.g. 0.5 mL to 1 mL precipitation samples are collected. Evaporation of water from a sample vessel after collection leads to isotopic fractionation which changes the relative amounts of the hydrogen and oxygen isotopes of the water. To minimize evaporation of low volume samples collectors are needed that use small bottles e.g. about 20 mL in volume to reduce headspace and also that seal the bottles after collecting each sample.

There are also collectors that collect samples instantaneously or intermittently. These types of collectors typically load a fixed quantity of water at a specific time or at specific times without collecting and homogenizing the fluid over a time interval before drawing a sample. These types of collectors are inadequate to accurately determine the relative amounts of isotopes in precipitation. To accurately determine the amounts of isotopes time integrated samples are needed. In other words each sample collected needs to be representative of the entire collection interval for that sample. Otherwise important information can be missed if the fluid is changing such as the precipitation during a storm. For example a narrow peak can be missed in a ground water or surface water tracer test when an instantaneous sample is collected at a predetermined interval.

Thus a precipitation collector is needed that can collect multiple sequential time integrated samples as small as 0.5 mL at for example 30 minute intervals over an extended period of time such as 48 hours or longer and that can also minimize sample evaporation or hold it as close to zero as possible.

It is an aspect of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for the unattended collection of sequential time integrated water samples at preset time intervals over the course of a hydrologic event or test to determine amounts of isotopes or water quality.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for the unattended collection of sequential time integrated water samples for ground water and surface water tracer tests.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for the unattended collection of sequential time integrated water samples as small as about 0.5 mL at 15 to 30 minute time intervals over 24 to 48 hour periods or longer.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for the unattended collection of sequential time integrated water samples in which multiple sample vials are sealed after each vial receives a sample to prevent evaporation.

These and other aspects are achieved according to the present invention by providing a sequential time integrated collector that collects multiple water samples as small as about 0.5 mL in multiple sample vials at preset intervals over an extended period of time. The collector includes an electronic controller that receives a start signal from various inputs such as a manual push button a timer a cell phone or a rain sensor. Once started the controller actuates either of two electrically actuated valves each connected to a water reservoir. At preset intervals water samples are transferred into plastic or glass sample vials in a multi sample carousel. Evaporation that could change the isotopic composition of a precipitation sample is minimized by sealing the opening of each sample vial after it is filled by pressing the mouth of each vial against a flat low friction surface such as a Teflon sheet. Thus after loading with a water sample each vial is exposed to the air for less than 5 minutes eliminating evaporation. With this approach 96 or more vials can be used and samples as small as 0.5 mL can be collected with no change in the relative amounts of hydrogen and oxygen isotopes of the water samples.

According to an embodiment of the present invention there is provided a water collector for collecting multiple water samples over multiple preset time intervals. The water collector includes a first reservoir that captures water over a preset time interval and homogenizes the water during the preset time interval. A second reservoir receives a predetermined amount of a water sample from the water in the first reservoir at the end of the preset time interval and any excess water is discharged from the first reservoir. A carousel contains multiple vials including a first vial and multiple second vials. A sealing plate rests on top of the carousel and has a first opening under which the first vial is positioned. The carousel rotates after the first vial receives the water sample from the second reservoir to move the first vial underneath the sealing plate to seal the first vial while moving one of the second vials underneath the first opening to receive a next water sample over a next preset time interval. The carousel rotates after each of the second vials has been filled at the end of each successive preset time interval until all of the vials have received a separate water sample. Each vial is sealed after being filled.

According to another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method of collecting multiple water samples over multiple preset time intervals including providing a first reservoir a second reservoir a carousel with multiple vials including a first vial and multiple second vials and a sealing plate resting on a top of the carousel capturing water in the first reservoir over a preset time interval the water being homogenized during the preset time interval transferring a predetermined amount of a water sample from the water in the first reservoir to the second reservoir at the end of the preset time interval and discharging any excess water from the first reservoir locating the first vial at a first filling position on the carousel providing a first opening on the sealing plate corresponding to the first filling position rotating the carousel after the first vial receives the water sample from the second reservoir to position one of the second vials at the first filling position to receive a next water sample over a next preset time interval the first vial being rotated away from the first filling position and underneath the sealing plate as the carousel rotates to seal the first vial and rotating the carousel after each of the second vials has been filled at the end of each successive preset time interval until all of the vials have received a separate water sample each vial being sealed after being filled.

The present invention provides a collector with an electronic controller that receives a start signal from for example a manual push button or switch a timer a cell phone or a rain sensor that initiates operation of the collector when it gets wet. Once started the controller actuates either of two electrically actuated valves each connected to a water reservoir. At preset intervals determined by for example a synchronous motor with adjustable gears in the controller or an electronic timing circuit water samples are transferred into plastic or glass sample vials in a multi sample carousel. Evaporation that could change the isotopic composition of a precipitation sample is minimized by sealing the opening of each sample vial by pressing each vial against a flat low friction surface such as a Teflon sheet from the time each sample vial is filled until it is removed from the collector.

The operation of a collector according to the present invention can be understood by referring to . Generally shows a first reservoir that captures and homogenizes each water sample collected over a preset time interval. The reservoir includes a first funnel and a first valve .

A second reservoir extracts a preset maximum amount of water from the total amount of water in the first funnel . The second reservoir includes a second funnel and a second valve .

A transfer line feeds the water sample by gravity flow from the second funnel to a multi sample carousel . The transfer line may be constructed of flexible plastic for example.

The carousel holds multiple samples in multiple sample vials . After each sample is collected it is sealed by a sealing plate having a low friction lower surface to prevent evaporation of the sample and eliminate the accompanying fractionation of oxygen and hydrogen isotopes in water that would otherwise occur.

An electronic controller whose operation can be initiated from a variety of inputs controls operation of the first valve the second valve and the carousel .

A start collection program of the controller is initiated from a variety of inputs such as a cell phone a precipitation detector a timer or a manual push button or switch on the controller . Once the controller has started precipitation samples are loaded into the sample vials at equal time intervals. The sample vials may be constructed of glass or plastic for example. Only two such vials are shown in for ease of illustration. The time intervals may be preset by changing gears on a synchronous motor not shown that drives cam switches not shown in the controller . Alternatively the collector can be controlled using integrated circuit timing.

During a preset time interval commonly 30 minutes water is collected and homogenized in the first funnel . The first funnel may be constructed of materials such as plastic or aluminum which can be anodized. If the first funnel is constructed of aluminum it can be fitted with a thermostat and heater not shown to melt snow or hail. The first funnel may have a diameter of about 20 cm with a maximum sample volume of about 1000 mL for example. The size of the first funnel is selected to have a volume sufficient to prevent overflow during collection of a water sample during the preset time interval so that none of the sample which is composited over the preset interval is lost.

The first funnel is connected to the first valve which is normally closed. After the preset interval the controller operates a first actuator to open the first valve for sufficient time about 1 minute to allow the water to flow directly into the second funnel which holds the water sample that will be transferred to one of the sample vials . The amount of time the first valve is open is adjustable. The volume of the second funnel is typically selected to be about 75 of the volume of the sample vials that hold each sample. A size of about 15 mL works well for the second funnel . If the amount of water in the first funnel is less than the amount that the second funnel can hold all of the sample water is captured and transferred to one of the sample vials . If the amount of water in the first funnel is greater than the maximum amount of water the second funnel can hold the excess water spills over the sides of the second funnel and is discarded. For example if the second funnel holds a maximum of 15 mL of water and the amount of water in the first funnel is greater than 15 mL all but 15 mL of the composited water spills over the sides of the second funnel and is discarded.

The amount of sample water collected to be transferred into one of the vials may be adjusted by selecting a desired funnel volume for the second funnel . Thus the collector is a variable amount collector. The volume of each of the sample vials must be greater than that of the water sample from the second funnel . Otherwise water will overflow the sample vials being filled and run down into the bottom of a container see that houses components of the carousel and the controller . The controller can also be housed in a separate watertight container not shown to allow changes to the controller as samples are being collected.

The controller closes the first valve . The second funnel is connected to the second valve which is normally closed. The controller operates a second actuator to open the second valve to transfer the sample water in the second funnel through the transfer line and an opening in the top of the container into one of the sample vials in the carousel . The carousel and the transfer line can be heated to just above freezing to prevent ice from forming in the transfer line . The excess heat can be used to keep any water in the second funnel the first valve and the second valve from freezing.

After the water sample has been transferred to one of the sample vials typically the transfer takes about 10 to about 30 seconds the controller closes the second valve .

The controller activates an electric carousel drive motor to rotate the multi sample carousel to the next vial which is empty and the vial just filled is sealed to prevent evaporation. The maximum amount of time any one of the vials may be open is about 5 minutes.

Sensing that the last vial has been filled using for example a magnetic reed switch an infrared IR optical interrupter detector or a snap action switch located in the container with the carousel the controller turns off the collector . At this point the filled sample vials have all been sealed to prevent evaporation until being removed from the collector .

The filling of the sample vials is described in greater detail by referring to . shows the tops of the vials in the carousel according to one embodiment of the present invention. In 96 20 mL vials are arranged in three concentric rings including an inner ring a middle ring and an outer ring . Each ring contains 32 vials. As shown in the sealing plate is placed on top of the carousel with the low friction lower surface resting on top of the sample vials . The sealing plate includes three holes each hole about inch in diameter for example that correspond respectively to each ring of vials . shows these holes as an inner hole a middle hole and an outer hole . The transfer line is connected to one end of a vial filler which initially positions the transfer line over the outer hole . The sample vials in the outer ring are filled first. After each vial in the outer ring has been filled the carousel rotates to the next empty vial in the outer ring which rotates the filled vial underneath the sealing plate to seal the filled vial . After all the vials in the outer ring have been filled a ring changer motor moves the vial filler to position the transfer line over the hole for the middle ring while the portion of the vial filler extending away from the transfer line covers and seals the hole for the outer ring . The lower surface of the vial filler is also a low friction surface such as a Teflon sheet. After the vials in the middle ring have been filled the ring changer motor moves the vial filler to position the transfer line over the hole for the inner ring which covers and seals the hole for the middle ring . After the vials in the inner ring have been filled the ring changer motor moves the vial filler further inward to a final position which covers and seals the hole for the inner ring . Thus all of the vials are sealed from the time each one is filled until the vials are removed from the collector . The number of vials and rings can be varied depending on the requirements of a specific application. Thus more vials can be added for an extended collection period such as 1 to 2 weeks.

An IR optical interrupter detector for example is used to indicate when each vial is in the proper position for filling. Additional IR detectors can be used to indicate the vial number i.e. 1 to 96 for the embodiment shown in . Reed switches for example are used for sequencing the operation of the collector e.g. moving from one ring to the next .

Isotopic fractionation of each water sample is minimized or eliminated by pressing the mouth of each sample vial against the flat low friction surface of the sealing plate to seal the mouths of the sample vials . Referring to the sealing plate may include for example a 20 inch 20 inch Teflon sheet bonded to a inch flat aluminum plate . In the Teflon sheet has not yet been bonded to the aluminum plate . Each vial is only exposed during the brief interval when a water sample is transferred into it. Pressure is applied to the bottom of each vial by foam rubber see for example to press each vial against the Teflon sheet. Alternatively a spring not shown may be used to press each vial gently but snuggly against the low friction surface .

In addition to collecting precipitation samples the collector of the present invention can be used for collecting time integrated water samples from wells streams or other dynamic sources. For these applications a pump not shown such as a peristaltic pump is used to draw water from a well or surface water body. The flow rate is adjusted so that the first funnel is only partially filled during each identical preset time interval. To maintain the integrating aspect of the collector the flow rate of the pump is set so that the pump slowly trickles water into the first funnel continuously over the whole time interval without the first funnel overflowing.

By using plastic vials the collector of the present invention may also collect samples for dissolved nitrate which can subsequently be analyzed for concentration nitrogen and oxygen relative isotope amount ratios. Such measurements are useful in atmospheric and environmental investigations.

Referring to a screen may be placed on top of or within the first funnel to block debris from entering it. A cartridge heater and temperature sensor not shown can be mounted on the screen to determine the time integrated value of the relative amounts of oxygen and hydrogen isotopes in snow or hail. When the temperature is below 33 F. the temperature sensor closes applying power to the cartridge heater which melts any snow or hail on the screen . Also a shield such as an inverted funnel may be placed over the second funnel to shield it from debris or from water that might enter the second funnel from a source other than the first funnel .

The present invention can be battery or solar powered and the exact dates and times of collections can be recorded digitally. Also the present invention can be set to collect precipitation samples from one storm go into a sleep mode and start collecting again when precipitation from the next storm is sensed. While in a sleep mode the funnel can be automatically covered with a cap not shown to prevent dirt blowing sand and debris from falling into the funnel .

In another embodiment of the present invention the collector can be used to monitor a tipping bucket rain gauge which then serves as a start and stop signal for the collector . A tipping bucket rain gauge typically tips every 0.01 inch of rain. When it tips it activates a switch such as a reed switch to electronically record both rain rate and accumulation. This embodiment of the present invention provides time integrated samples of precipitation for analysis as well as an accurate time record of precipitation and the controller can be set to collect samples only when the tipping bucket rain gauge rate is greater than a preset amount. Thus in this embodiment the sample vials would not be wasted during a period e.g. 24 hours when a very light mist was falling.

Advantages of the present invention include the ability to collect a large number of samples e.g. 96 or more samples over an extended period of time e.g. 48 hours or longer . Small samples e.g. 0.5 mL can be collected without isotopic fractionation resulting from evaporation of the sample. Also each sample collected is representative of the entire time interval i.e. time integrated during which water is collected that becomes the source from which the sample is drawn.

Thus it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that modifications and variations of the present invention are possible without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

