---

title: Biaxial liquid crystal electro-optic devices
abstract: An electro-optical device including a biaxial liquid crystal having a primary and secondary director is provided. A change in orientation of at least one of the directors due to an applied electric field produces a change in the optical state of the device. Response times are increased dramatically over uniaxial nematic based liquid crystal devices, offering improved performance and efficiency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07604850&OS=07604850&RS=07604850
owner: Kent State University
number: 07604850
owner_city: Kent
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060823
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 60 711 046 filed Aug. 24 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. NSF DMR 03 12792 awarded by the National Science Foundation.

Conventional liquid crystal devices are based on what may be called the uniaxial nematic liquid crystal phase which has one optic axis. The typical molecules constituting the uniaxial nematic phase are roughly cylindrical molecules. In these devices the optic axis also known as the director is oriented in a predetermined configuration using surface effects. Surface alignment films are prepared on two substrates to persuade the director to be parallel to one of the in plane directions. The substrates are then put together to fabricate a nematic device in a number of different configurations. If the director orientation at the two surfaces is along orthogonal directions it results in a twisted nematic TN device. If it is at 180 or 270 it is called a high birefringence effect HBE or super twisted nematic STN device. Several other modes e.g. parallel or OCB mode are known and used.

The operation of such devices relies on producing different optical path lengths for a beam of light passing through it. An applied electric field is applied by connecting a battery to the conducting electrodes predeposited at the two opposing substrates. The field exerts a torque on the director and tries to make it perpendicular to the substrates. During the change in director reorientation due to the applied field the elongated LC molecules reorient about their short axis to change from lying down at the substrate to standing up position. Since the index of refraction parallel and perpendicular to the director are different. The field off and field on states appear different to a beam of propagating polarized light and its state of polarization is altered as it passes through such a device. An analyzer positioned at the exit side of the device at proper orientation is used to change the director reorientation in to optical contrast. This forms the principle of operation of LC display devices.

Speed of switching in the nematic devices depends on the elastic constants and the effective viscosity of the liquid crystal used. Generally the switching speed lies in 10 100 s of ms range. The speed of these devices has been one of the limiting factors and the major reason for needing more complex active matrix substrates. It is becoming obvious that faster devices are necessary to make significant advances and produce next generation of LC displays and electro optical devices. The use of biaxial nematic liquid crystal lends itself to the fabrication of much faster devices.

The existence of a biaxial nematic liquid crystal phase possessing two orthogonal optic axes has previously been predicted. The recent discovery of novel mesophases formed by bent core liquid crystals has encouraged scientific interest in the study of this phase and the possibility of the biaxial nematic phase being used for technological applications including display devices. In particular computer simulation of such boomerang type molecules has suggested that the bent core shape could exhibit a stable biaxial nematic phase. Recently several studies have confirmed the existence of a stable biaxial nematic phase in several homologous series of liquid crystal compounds.

The molecules that are likely to form a biaxial nematic phase are made of ellipsoidal molecules that have on average three different dimensions in contrast to the cylindrical molecules that form the uniaxial nematic phase. They have two optic axes or directors denoted as m and n bold letter implies vector or directional nature . The advantage of such materials is that in addition to reorientation of the principal director n the secondary director m can also reorient. Reorientation of m requires rotation of its shorter axes about the long molecular axis which can happen very fast. This is equivalent to a person turning on ones side while lying on a flat surface. Since the biaxial phase has three different indices of refraction in the three spatial directions this turning or spinning of molecules also offers a change in optical path length in the direction perpendicular to their length and thus a means to fabricate an electro optical device.

It is now proposed herein that higher switching speeds in an electro optic device can be realized using a liquid crystal exhibiting such a biaxial nematic phase.

In one embodiment there is provided an electro optical device including first and second substrates each of the first and second substrates coated with an alignment layer and a liquid crystal material positioned between the substrates the liquid crystal material including a biaxial liquid crystal having a first principal director n and a secondary director m wherein a change in the optical properties of the device are effected by reorienting at least one of m and n.

In a second embodiment there is provided a biaxial retardation film including first and second transparent electrodes and a liquid crystal material positioned between the electrodes the liquid crystal material including a biaxial nematic liquid crystal having a first principal director n and a secondary director m wherein n and m are perpendicular to each other and parallel to the electrodes at an applied electric field of zero.

In a third embodiment there is provided a method of forming an electro optical device comprising depositing a liquid crystal material between first and second substrates each of the first and second substrates coated with an alignment layer the liquid crystal material comprising a biaxial liquid crystal having a first principal director n and a secondary director m wherein a change in the optical properties of the device are effected by reorienting at least one of m and n.

As detailed above a biaxial nematic phase has recently been discovered in various bent core or banana shaped liquid crystal and in tetrapodic liquid crystals of the type shown in . shows a schematic illustration of various uniaxial nematic phases as well as several recently discovered biaxial nematics with major and minor directors. shows a uniaxial nematic comprised of cylindrically symmetric calamitic mesogens while shows a uniaxial discotic nematic. Biaxial nematic phases are shown in and which consist of a mixture of rods and disks anisometric parallelpiped platelets and bent core mesogens respectively.

With respect to bent core molecules that have chevron like shape the direction of n and m lie along the average long axis and the apex of the molecule respectively. In an electro optic device when the biaxial nematic phase of these materials is sealed between two substrates with an accompanying alignment layer the director n aligns along the rubbing direction of the alignment layer. In a zero voltage state the plane containing n and m is parallel to the substrates as seen in . When an electric field is applied between the substrates m reorients and become perpendicular to the substrate and parallel to the field as seen in . This reorientation known as Frederick s transition is observed in x ray diffraction as a change in scattered intensity from the cell as seen in . Although the reorientation response time in this x ray experiment has not been measured it is expected to be 10 to 100 times faster than in the uniaxial nematic phase.

In one embodiment the bent core liquid crystal displaying biaxial nematic phase comprises an oxadiazole molecule having the formula 

In addition to the expected speed increase in the reorientation of the m director in devices utilizing biaxial nematics the speed of reorientation of the n director in the biaxial nematic phase has also been found in one case to be approximately 2 times faster than in the uniaxial phase of same material as can be seen in . In the response characteristics of the reorientation of the n director in a cell filled with bent core liquid crystal is shown. While in the uniaxial nematic phase at 170 C. right the reorientation response time is approximately 15 ms while in the biaxial nematic phase at 160 C. left it is found to be less than 7 ms. This discrepancy is thought to be due to the fact that the ratio of viscosity to the elastic constant is smaller in the biaxial phase than in the uniaxial phase. Thus the use of the biaxial nematic phase offers an advantage even when used like a uniaxial nematic phase i.e. exploiting the reorientation of n in devices. The devices using biaxial nematic liquid crystal switch faster than the uniaxial nematic devices irrespective of whether the electro optical effects are realized through the reorientation of the m or n director.

A second significant use of the biaxial nematic which may also be extended to the biaxial smectic phase that has been confirmed in bent core materials is in the fabrication of tunable biaxial retardation films. Such films have been employed to reduce light leakage at 45 to the polarizer and analyzer directions in LC devices. The use of biaxial nematic liquid crystal makes it relatively easy to fabricate retardation films that can be electrically tuned.

Presently commercial biaxial retardation films are prepared by constructing multi layered stacks of uniaxial liquid crystal layers including arrangements of distinct planar and vertically aligned liquid crystal layers with precise control of the thickness and director n orientation. In a fraction of the films in the multi stack the uniaxial optical axis is oriented in plane planar while in others it is perpendicular to the film s plane vertical alignment . Composite films of this type behave as biaxial films of constant biaxiality but are cumbersome to produce at high cost. Moreover once formed the degree of biaxial retardation that it offers can not be altered.

A uniformly aligned film of the type shown in of biaxial nematic phase of bent core liquid crystal functions by its very nature as biaxial retardation film. The fabrication of such a film is essentially one step process of preparing one liquid crystal layer and thus quite easy. In addition to this ease of construction an enormous advantage is that the retardation of such a biaxial nematic retardation film is tunable with the application of an electric field.

Specifically in devices made with biaxial nematic phase liquid crystal one can exploit both directors. One possibility is that in a single device one could manipulate n with say low frequency electric field to control the optical path length to create optical contrast while controlling m with the help of a high frequency field to compensate . In this manner no additional component will need to be incorporated in the device. Elimination of additional components also removes many optical boundaries in the device and reduces spurious light scattering from various interfaces thereby increasing its efficiency and light throughput. If both directors were exploited for dynamic performance in a device made of the biaxial N phase it will offer four extreme optical states corresponding to the possibilities of their orientation with respect to the transmitted beam of light.

An exemplary biaxial retardation film comprises two transparent substrates with optically transparent but electrically conducting electrodes deposited on them. The electrodes may be films of indium tin oxide ITO or conducting polymer. The conductor layer is covered with a polymer which is either treated with polarized UV or mechanically rubbed to produce liquid crystal alignment. Most common method used in the LC industry is a film of polyimide PI which is mechanically rubbed after processing it through a prescribed thermal cycle. The methods of deposition thermal processing and rubbing are known to those skilled in the art of making LC display devices.

The substrates are then assembled in to a cell with a cell gap the magnitude of which can be varied depending on the two birefringences of the biaxial nematic phase and desired retardation. The cell gap is typically fixed with the use of glass or plastic spherical or rod shaped beads as spacers. Normally the spacers are sprayed on to one of both surfaces before the substrates are assembled in to a cell.

The cell is then filled with the selected liquid crystal for example with A shown in . This compound aligns with n parallel to the rubbing direction and m in the plane of the cell but perpendicular to n. In this state the cell offers fixed retardations to the two polarization of incident light. The devices architecture resembles the schematic drawing in . The retardation offered by such devices can be controlled by applying a dc or ac electric field of different frequencies to control the orientation of m and or n. These films act as tunable biaxial retardation films. The special feature of tenability and easy fabrication are possible only with the use of biaxial nematic liquid crystal.

There are many other possibilities for use of biaxial LC devices such as in beam steering holographic and optical communications to define and control beam polarization wave front shaping and phase and amplitude of electric field associated with propagating light beams. These materials can also be used in photonic crystals.

Much of the above described method of making a device applies to the biaxial smectic A phase also which have been recently reported to exist. The difference lies in how the smectic planes and the director m can be aligned for device fabrication. Being a smectic A phase some of the problems plaguing the ferroelectric SmC technology may be absent rendering this phase a preferred one.

The exemplary embodiment has been described with reference to the preferred embodiments. Obviously modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading and understanding the preceding detailed description. It is intended that the exemplary embodiment be construed as including all such modifications and alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

