---

title: Coordinated ballistic missile defense planning using genetic algorithm
abstract: A method for generating plans against ballistic missiles begins with the locations of regions from which missiles may be launched and identifies regions to be defended. The available sensor and engagement assets, their capabilities and possible locations are identified. At least some of the assets have sensor and engagement capabilities independent those of other assets. Initial potential plans are binary encoded, and applied to a genetic algorithm for producing a population of genetically modified solutions. These modified solutions are decoded and evaluated for fitness. The fitness evaluations are iteratively reapplied to the genetic algorithm to ultimately produce improved plans. The improved plans are decoded and finally evaluated for fitness and application. This process continues for a fixed number of iterations, at the end of which the best solution is presented as the plan best fit to achieve a valid defense against the BMD threats.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07552669&OS=07552669&RS=07552669
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07552669
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060216
---
This application claims the benefit of the priority date of Provisional Application No. 60 749 746 filed Dec. 13 2005.

This invention was made with government support under Contract N00024 03 C 6110. The United States Government has a non exclusive non transferable paid up license in this invention.

This invention relates to planning of coordinated defense against ballistic missile threats using available assets to tend toward an optimal result.

Robust missile defense relies on an array of complementary assets performing diverse surveillance and engagement tasks against ballistic missile attack. The engagement or destruction of a hostile ballistic missile requires that the missile be detected and its trajectory estimated and possible means for engagement identified. The destruction also requires that from among the identified means for engagement or assets at least one be selected for use. Once one or more assets are identified for use in engaging the missile an intercept path must be defined for the interceptor based on the projected location of the missile at the time of interception.

Several Ballistic Missile Defense BMD assets are currently available including sea based Aegis land based Theater High Altitude Area Defense THAAD and Patriot. Each of these assets has its own associated planner which independently generates its mission plan.

A method according to an aspect of the invention is for planning ballistic missile defensive actions. The method comprises the steps of defining potential ballistic missile launch areas and areas to be defended and defining available assets and allowable locations for the available assets where at least one of the assets has sensing capabilities independent of those of others of the assets and at least one of the assets has engagement capabilities independent of those of others of the assets. An initial population of potential defensive solutions is defined from the launch areas defended areas assets and allowable locations. The initial population of potential defensive solutions is binary encoded. The binary encoded initial population of potential defensive solutions is applied to a genetic algorithm engine to thereby generate a population of binary encoded genetically modified potential defensive solutions. The population of binary encoded genetically modified potential defensive solutions is decoded to thereby produce non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions. At least some of the non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions are re applied to the genetic algorithm engine to thereby generate a further population of binary encoded genetically modified potential defensive solutions. The further population of binary encoded genetically modified potential defensive solutions is decoded to produce a further population of non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions. The non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions are evaluated and one of the non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions is deemed to be the desired plan. In a particular mode of this method the step of evaluating includes the step of ranking non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions wherein the desired plan is among the highest ranked of the non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions.

A method according to another aspect of the invention is for computer aided generation of a plan for coordinating ballistic missile defense assets against ballistic missile threats. The method comprises the steps of acquiring or generating as by user input digital information about allowable asset locations and desired objectives. The method also includes the step of acquiring or generating digital information about allowable asset sensor and engagement capabilities. In particular at least one of the assets should have sensor capabilities independent of those of others of the assets and at least one of the assets should have engagement capabilities independent of those of other assets. The digital information so acquired or generated is binary encoded to thereby generate a binary encoded representation of plural potential plans. The step of binary encoding comprises the step of generating a binary string representing a plan. The plural potential plans are applied to a genetic optimization process generally known in the art for generating a series or plurality of processed or new potential plans still represented in binary encoded form. The genetic optimization process may retain at least some of the processed potential plans and also make them available for decoding. At least some of the decoded processed potential plans are evaluated possibly by ranking as to suitability. Some of the ranked potential plans may be retained in memory. The evaluations are made available or fed back to the genetic optimization process for further genetic optimization. The genetic optimization decoding evaluation and feedback process repeats or iterates until some criterion is reached. In one mode of the method the criterion is a predetermined number of iterations. Following the completion of iteration the latest decoded solutions are ranked possibly together with the previously memorized solutions to thereby generate ranked potential plans. One of the highest ranked potential plans is selected as the desired plan. Most often the desired plan is deemed to be the highest ranked plan. In a particular mode of this method the step of generating a binary string representing a plan comprises the steps of assigning a first block of bits to represent the locations of all participating assets a second block of bits to represent all surveillance tasks and a third block of bits to represent all engagement tasks. In this particular mode the step of assigning a second block of bits to represent all surveillance tasks includes the steps of assigning a first sub block of bits of the second block of bits to represent the identity of assigned sensor a second sub block of the second block of bits to represent the trajectory which is to be sensed a third sub block of bits of the second block of bits to represent the elevation at which sensing is to be performed and a fourth sub block of bits of the second block of bits to represent the energy allocated to the sensing task. In this particular mode the step of assigning a third block of assets to represent all engagement tasks includes the steps of assigning a first sub block of bits of the third block of bits to represent the identity of assigned asset and assigning a second sub block of the third block of bits to represent the trajectory which is to be engaged.

According to an aspect of the invention the robust missile defense is cast as a multi variable optimization problem which is solved using a genetic algorithm GA . The approach of use of a genetic algorithm in missile defense planning is disclosed in D. Pepyne D. Looze D. Logan N. R. Sandell Jr R. LeBlanc A Decision Aid For Theater Missile Defense Evolutionary Computation 1997 IEEE International Conference on 13 16 Apr. 1997 Page s 563 568. As disclosed in Pepyne et al. three assumptions are made that oversimplify the problem and lead to sub optimal solutions. A first assumption is that each ballistic defense asset includes within itself both sensing and intercept capabilities. The second simplifying assumption in Pepyne et al. is that each sensor deploys a single surveillance volume controlled by its field of view and orientation as illustrated in . The third simplifying assumption in Pepyne et al is that defense assets act independently to detect engage and negate a threatening missile that is defense assets do not coordinate to perform a task . Put another way the defense assets are each assumed to be independently capable of negating the threat. These assumptions oversimplify the problem and in general lead to ballistic missile defense plans that may not be effective.

The planning approach or method according to an aspect of the invention alleviates the problems associated with these simplifying assumptions and allows the surveillance assets to simultaneously support multiple surveillance volumes with independently specified size and search intensity. The defense plan according to an aspect of the invention defines the number of surveillance volumes their size and location and their energy allocation. These surveillance parameters are chosen to best satisfy the defense objective. Because each asset has limited resources determining the best energy allocation among the surveillance volumes is a difficult constrained resource allocation problem. If in Pepyne et al no asset can solely negate a threat then defense against that threat is not possible. In an aspect of the invention multiple assets are allowed to coordinate to negate a single missile. This capability may enable a valid defense plan which is inaccessible in Pepyne et al. Additionally in the case that a single asset can solely negate a threat solutions that involve the coordination of multiple assets which may possess only sensing or intercept capabilities may achieve better performance than solutions without coordinated asset tasking. The missile interception process is decomposed into a series of tasks each of which can be performed by any available asset subject to system constraints. The activities of the assets are coordinated as specified by the tasking specified in the defense plan. The planning problem is that of determining a coordinated asset lay down assignment of asset locations and a task resource allocation. The optimal plan is obtained using a genetic algorithm GA .

Defense against a missile attack according to an aspect of the invention is planned using multiple coordinating assets. The coordinating assets may include ground sea and space based sensors ground and sea based missile interceptors and a communication network coupling all of the available assets. The defense uses multiple sensors to perform surveillance and target tracking and multiple interceptors placed to enable destruction of the threatening missiles. The interceptors can be co located with the sensors or they can be independently placed. The communication network is used by the participating assets to coordinate the missile engagement.

A successful missile engagement sequence requires the completion of several surveillance and engagement tasks. First sensors establish surveillance volumes for detecting with some probability all missiles flying about an assigned ballistic trajectory. Once a missile is detected the sensor initiates and maintains an estimate of the missile s current position and velocity also known as track. The target track is maintained by the sensor for as long as possible. A launched missile s track is broadcast to all participating assets in the form of a cue. The track information contained in a cue can be used to perform one of two possible engagement tasks.

Depending on how many assets are available there are four engagement sequence variants that may occur. These four engagement sequences are illustrated in and and capture all possible general ways an enemy missile may be intercepted. In essence through capture the different types of plans which can be generated according to an aspect of the invention. In the first possible engagement task including an interceptor a sensor other than one associated with the interceptor can perform an interceptor support task. In this first engagement task this sensor acquires and initiates a new track on the launched missile and provides cues to aim and provide guidance to an interceptor. In the second possible engagement task the cue information generated by the first sensor can be directly used by an interceptor to perform a launch task in an attempt to destroy the incoming threat.

The first engagement sequence is the single sensor single shooter sequence illustrated in . illustrates the same region as and corresponding elements are designated by like alphanumerics. In this case a single seaborne sensor detects the threat by observing a surveillance volume tracks the threat along at least a portion of its track and supports the interceptor launched from a land based asset by sending a cue . It is irrelevant to the issues where the sensors and interceptors are based.

The second engagement sequence is the single sensor multiple shooter sequence illustrated in . In the engagement variant of a single sensor cues by way of paths and multiple interceptor launchers and respectively which launch interceptors and respectively. Naturally if the first interceptor launch is successful in intercepting the missile it may not be necessary to launch the second. Since more than one interceptor launch can be achieved engagement coordination logic is used to determine the preferred shooting strategy. When available this engagement option provides an enhanced likelihood of successfully negating the missile as compared to engagements using a single shooter.

The third possible engagement sequence is the multiple sensor single shooter sequence illustrated in . In the engagement variant of two or more sensors coordinate to accomplish the surveillance track and interceptor support functions. One or more cueing and acquisition exchanges and or are used to hand off the missile track from one sensor to the next until an interceptor launch occurs. This engagement sequence has failure modes not present when a single sensor supports the engagement. For example there are failure modes associated with the acquisition process and additional failure modes associated with the communication network. However when a single sensor cannot independently support the engagement multiple coordinating sensors may. Additionally multiple coordinating sensors can be used to provide defense robustness even when a single sensor could support the engagement.

The fourth possible engagement sequence is the multiple sensor multiple shooter sequence illustrated in . The engagement variant of is similar to the multiple sensor single shooter case with the only exception that one or more sensors provide interceptor support to multiple shooters . However track data from multiple sensors is not correlated fused and thus an interceptor such as or is supported by only one sensor. When available this engagement option provides an enhanced likelihood of successfully negating the missile as compared to engagements using multiple sensors and a single shooter.

One of the main difficulties of coordinated asset planning is that the number of potential solutions increases exponentially with the number of coordinating assets. To illustrate this effect consider a simplified version of the problem of defending against T threats. Assume that p coordinating sensors each have an operational area containing N potential locations. Then there exist Npossible sensor lay down or asset placement configurations. Further assume that to negate a threat two tasks need to be performed a surveillance task and an engagement task. Thus when defending against T threats there are T surveillance tasks and T engagement tasks that need to be performed. If for a given lay down each sensor can be assigned any number of surveillance and engagement tasks and more than one sensor can be assigned the same task then there are 2surveillance and engagement task combination options for each sensor. Accounting for all possible sensor taskings and lay downs there exist 2 N possible defense plans where p is the number of coordinating sensors and N is the number of potential sensor locations. For the relatively small problem of p 3 T 4 and N 1000 there exist 2 1000 10possible plans that need to be considered. Thus even apparently simple plans have very large numbers of possible solutions.

The problem of formulating or developing a coordinated multi asset defense plan can be cast as a constrained static resource optimization problem. The optimization criterion is to construct a plan that maximizes the defense objective e.g. maximize surviving defended asset value. Position constraints are imposed by the operating areas defined for each asset type. Resource constraints are imposed by the performance characteristics of each sensor. Finally the problem is static because the launch areas defended areas missile trajectories and number and type of defense assets are all substantially fixed during the planning process.

For a given set of threats and available defense assets a defense plan specifies the lay down and task allocation for all participating defense assets. When executing a defense plan the probability that trajectory i is successfully negated by interceptor j is referred to as the single shot probability of kill P i j . If multiple shots are taken at trajectory i then the probability of kill is given by 

Detailed models of the sensors communication networks interceptors missiles etc. are required to compute the probabilities listed in . The details of determining the models and their probabilities are known to those skilled in the art. Two important observations are that 

1. The defense assets need to coordinate to successfully intercept a target. Coordination implies that asset tasking cannot be constructed in isolation.

As mentioned the optimization criterion is to construct a plan which is optimized that maximizes the surviving defended asset value S i.e. argmax 5 The surviving asset value is defined as 

The genetic algorithm GA is inspired by evolution. A GA uses a population of solutions to search for the optimal solution. By using populations the GA can quickly cover the entire search domain and converge to an optimal solution local and global as described in E. K. Burke D. B. Varley Proceedings of the 2nd conference on integrating technology into computer science education Uppsala Sweden Pages 27 30 1997. Each population member encodes a potential solution to a specific problem as a chromosome or genome which represents an encoding of many variables. When the chromosome is encoded as a binary string that is a string of ones and zeroes as illustrated in the GA is said to be canonical. Other encoding schemes have been proposed in the literature F. Herrera M. Lozano J L. Verdegay Tackling Real Coded Genetic Algorithms Operators and Tools for Behavioural Analysis Artificial Intelligence Review vol. 12 num. 4 p.p. 265 319 1998 and Eremeev A. V. In Proc. of Operations Research OR 98 . Springer Verlag 1999 p.p. 175 181. The fitness of each potential solution is evaluated by the Genetic Algorithm illustrated in simplified form in to determine how well it solves the underlying optimization problem. In the current population represented by the genomes of block is applied through a fitness evaluation block to assign a fitness value to each population member. Using the fitness value of block as a guide a series of recombination operators are applied to the population to evolve it into a better population containing solutions with higher fitness values while preserving genetic diversity. When applied recursively over a series of generations as represented by the feedback path these operations guide the population to converge to a near optimal solution. Three major recombination operations are used selection crossover and mutation.

The selection operation of is intended to emulate Darwin s concept of survival of the fittest the best population members survive to create new offspring. Thus the selected chromosomes are termed the parents and are used in block to create the next population of chromosomes. There are many methods in selecting the best chromosomes in block . Examples are roulette wheel selection tournament selection and rank selection as described in S. M. Sait H. Youssef IEEE Computer Society 1999 pp. 139 141. In general these methods use the population fitness values to select the best chromosomes. The mechanism used to generate offspring in block is known as crossover. It operates on two parents and results in one or more offspring each inheriting some of the parent characteristics. The mutation operation in block introduces random changes in the offspring resulting from crossover. When the chromosomes are encoded as binary strings mutation randomly flips selected chromosome bits. Mutation is applied probabilistically to only a few population members and has the effect of perturbing a population and introducing some new characteristics not present in the current population. The GA proceeds until certain termination criteria are satisfied. A good source for additional details on GAs is Eremeev supra.

Each potential solution encodes a complete defense policy which specifies the locations and task allocation for all BMD assets. The variables included in the encoding as well as their relative positions in a genome are shown in . In the illustrated portion of a genome is designated generally as . Defense asset location information is encoded in the first left end part of the genome. The locations of the defense assets are concatenated in first portion from asset number to asset number p. In the event that a sensor and one or more interceptors must be are required to be co located then only one location gene is included for those assets. Those skilled in the art know how to encode such multiple locations. Surveillance and engagement tasks are encoded in later portions of the genome. Each surveillance task in portion of the genome contains information about the surveillance volume and the assigned sensor. More particularly surveillance task of portion of includes sensor identification ID information as well as information about the search sector characteristics as illustrated in portion of the genome. This search sector or surveillance volume information includes the ballistic trajectories to be surveyed the elevation and the energy to be expended by the sensor. The trajectories are encoded as a binary string of length T the number of trajectories . A logic high or logic 1 in the nposition indicates that the ntrajectory is covered by this task. As such a single surveillance volume may be assigned to survey one or more trajectories. This encoding acts to cluster closely located trajectories at a given elevation and assign them to a single surveillance volume. The surveillance azimuth and range extents are determined by deterministic sensor specific algorithms from the elevation and assigned trajectory set. Using the GA to determine the surveillance volumes helps maximize sensor utilization.

Each engagement task in portion of genome of contains information in portion about the trajectories assigned to this task similar to the surveillance task encoding and the asset assigned to perform the task. Unlike the surveillance task an engagement task may be assigned to either a sensor or an interceptor. If a sensor is selected to perform an interceptor support task it is responsible for acquiring the threat s and supporting the interceptors launched to negate the threat s . Conversely if an interceptor is selected it is responsible for launching and engaging the threats on the assigned trajectories. By associating the engagement task type e.g. interceptor support launch with the assigned asset type we avoid encoding improper tasking assignments e.g. a sensor asked to launch an interceptor .

Unlike the surveillance tasks associated with portion of the encoding for the interceptor support tasks of portion does not include an energy allocation component. This is because the sensors are assumed to be controlled by real time software which automatically manages the resources used to track and engage the missile. Because this decision logic is embedded into the systems and is automatically applied there is no need for it to be pre planned. The GA uses a model of this allocation logic to determine the optimal asset placement and coordinated taskings.

It should be noted that the number of surveillance and engagement tasks encoded by the genome of is a control variable. If too few tasks are encoded too many trajectories must be assigned to each surveillance engagement task and it is may be more difficult to find a satisfactory plan. If too many tasks are encoded the plan computation time is unnecessarily long. When an intermediate number of tasks are included in the encoding the GA can design robust defense plans by assigning multiple assets to perform the same task while not suffering unnecessary computational time. Thus using this encoding there is a tradeoff between defense plan robustness and GA computational performance. Good performance has been found to occur by setting the number of surveillance engagement tasks equal to T the number of trajectories but other settings may also be used.

The potential solutions encoded by the genome presented in may not all correspond to valid defense policies. A potential solution is termed infeasible when the corresponding defense policy due to a constraint violation cannot be executed. There are three constraints that when violated lead to infeasible solutions. The first constraint is that all assets must be placed within the predefined operational areas. The second constraint is that only one sensor can be placed at any location. Unless the operating areas are very small this constraint is rarely violated. The final constraint limits the amount of energy resources that each sensor can use. This constraint becomes a factor in problems where few sensors are asked to defend against a large number of targets. Constraints can cause performance problems in GAs Eremeev supra. Three common strategies are discussed in the literature for dealing with constraints. The first is to construct an encoding that minimizes the occurrence of infeasible solutions. The second is to map infeasible solutions into feasible ones. The third is to penalize infeasible solutions during the fitness evaluation phase so they are not selected to participate in the generation of the next population. The first strategy in encoding the asset locations works well for our application. Specifically a matrix is defined for each asset type operating area. Each row of this matrix contains an x y location within the operating area. The numbers of rows is an integer power of 2. When the operating area contains fewer locations than the number of rows locations are repeated in a cyclic manner. Using this representation an asset location is simply defined by a row index and only valid asset locations are represented in the genome. For other infeasible solutions a strategy is used of penalizing infeasible solutions during the fitness evaluation phase of the process.

Initial population selection for starting the current population of can affect the GA s ability to converge to a near optimal solution in the case of large constraint optimization problems. It is desirable to specify an initial population that contains characteristics that define good solutions. In the ballistic missile defense application there are two characteristics of a good solution 1 it must not violate any operational constraints and 2 it needs to successfully negate one or more of the ballistic trajectories. If an initial population contains these characteristics the GA will evolve its members and converge to a near optimal defense policy. In addition the initial population must be diverse enough so it does not get trapped in a locally optimal but globally poor solution. Diversity in the initial population helps the algorithm explore the whole search space. Important elements of the algorithm used to initialize the population are as follows 

The fitness evaluation function of must be prepared or constructed before the genetic algorithm can be run. The planning objective is to construct the defense policy which maximizes some fitness function i.e. argmax 5 The optimization objective is to maximize the expected surviving value of the defended areas i.e. . 9 In addition to maximizing the expected surviving asset value other conflicting optimization criteria may need to be considered e.g. minimizing interceptor wastage expected collateral damage or resource usage. These constraints must be captured by the fitness function and the population initialization algorithm and are believed to be known to those skilled in the art. If an operational constraint is violated it causes the plan corresponding to the solution to be non executable. These infeasible solutions are assigned a zero fitness value.

The recombination operators of are applied to a population to evolve it into a better population while preserving critical information. The selection operator identifies the parents the members of the current population mated together to generate the next generation. In one mode of the method of the invention the popular roulette wheel selection process is used with elitism as described by Eremeev supra. Parents are paired off and two point crossover is performed to produce the children. Finally any bit of each child is independently flipped with a very low mutation rate such as 10 for example.

The coordinated multi asset planning approach outlined above was implemented and applied to multiple BMD problems. illustrates the results of this approach when applied to a simple BMD problem containing two launch areas LAs and two defended areas DAs . Each of the DAs was assigned an asset value of 0.5. The LAs were assigned equal probabilities of launching a missile and each launched missile was assigned the same lethality measure. The defense objective was to protect the DAs using two sea based platforms. One sea based platform was equipped with only a sensor while the second was equipped with a sensor and multiple interceptors. Thus this problem represents a special case in which a sensor is co located with one or more interceptors. Using a population size of 80 a crossover probability of 0.9 and a mutation rate of 10 the GA was able to quickly construct a feasible defense plan. In particular the GA assigned all surveillance tasks to the platform equipped with only a sensor and all engagement tasks were assigned to the other platform.

The plan produced by the GA and illustrated in requires both platforms to coordinate to negate any of the incoming threats. illustrates this coordination as a function of time for a particular threat. At the lower portion of the search is performed at about 25 seconds after launch by platform which has only sensors. The search cannot be performed prior to this time due to the curvature of the Earth. Platform detects and initiates a track on the launched missile as suggested by portion in the interval 25 to 270 seconds. The track is handed over to Platform at about 220 seconds which in turn initiates a new track acquires the threat as suggested by track portion . Platform provides aim and guidance intercept data for the interceptor. This information can be provided by the sensor located on Platform over a period of time illustrated as 290 to 440 seconds which defines the engagement window for that threat. The interceptor can launch to engage the threat anywhere within this engagement window. The particular intercept is illustrated as at about 305 seconds.

Thus ballistic missile defense BMD according to an aspect of the invention uses an array of cooperating sensors and shooters to coordinate planning defense against a ballistic missile attack. The coordinated planning approach determines the placement and tasking of available defense assets so that the resulting plan provides optimal satisfaction of the defense objective. The defense problem is cast as a multi variable optimization problem and is solved using a GA. The problem formulation removes several simplifying assumptions that were imposed in previous related work. Specifically the method according to an aspect of the invention allows each sensor to use multiple surveillance volumes to make better use of limited surveillance resources. The GA determines the location size and resources allocated to each surveillance task. Additionally the method according to an aspect of the invention allows the available assets to coordinate to better negate the missile attack. Coordinated defense may enable satisfactory protection when non coordinated assets are unable to provide adequate defense. Additionally even if non coordinated defense can negate the threat solutions that use coordinating assets may provide a more robust defense. As generally described the missile defense problem is formulated as a multi variable constrained static allocation problem. The optimization criterion is to maximize the surviving defended asset value. Position constraints are imposed by the operating areas defined for each asset and resource constraints are imposed on each asset. A sample problem is described and a GA with the solution encoding and initial population procedures according to aspects of the invention efficiently navigate the large complex and constrained solution space to find an effective defense allocation.

A method according to an aspect of the invention is for planning ballistic missile defensive actions. The method comprises the steps of defining potential ballistic missile launch areas and areas to be defended and defining available assets such as and allowable locations for the available assets such as where at least one of the assets has sensing capabilities independent of those of other assets and at least one of the assets has ballistic missile intercept capabilities independent of those of other assets . An initial population of potential defensive solutions is defined from the launch areas defended areas assets and allowable locations. The initial population of potential defensive solutions is binary encoded . The binary encoded initial population of potential defensive solutions at output is applied to a genetic algorithm engine to thereby generate at output a population of binary encoded genetically modified potential defensive solutions. The population of binary encoded genetically modified potential defensive solutions is decoded to thereby produce at output non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions. At least some of the non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions are re applied to the genetic algorithm engine to thereby generate at output a further population of binary encoded genetically modified potential defensive solutions. The further population of binary encoded genetically modified potential defensive solutions is decoded to produce at output a further population of non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions. The non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions are evaluated and one of the non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions is deemed to be the desired plan . The re application may be repeated and in particular may be repeated a predetermined number of times. In a particular mode of this method the step of evaluating includes the step of ranking non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions wherein the desired plan is among the highest ranked of the non binary coded genetically modified potential defensive solutions.

A method according to another aspect of the invention is for computer aided generation of a plan for coordinating ballistic missile defense assets against ballistic missile threats. The method comprises the steps of acquiring or generating as by user input digital information about allowable asset locations and desired objectives . The method also includes the step of acquiring or generating digital information about allowable asset capabilities. In particular at least one of the defense assets includes sensor capabilities independent of those of other assets and at least one of the assets includes ballistic missile engagement capabilities independent of those of other assets. The acquired or generated digital information is binary encoded to thereby generate at output a binary encoded representation of plural potential plans. The step of binary encoding comprises the step of generating a binary string representing a plan. The plural potential plans are applied to a genetic optimization process generally known in the art for generating a series or plurality of processed or new potential plans still represented in binary encoded form. The genetic optimization process may retain at least some of the processed potential plans and also make them available for decoding . At least some of the decoded processed potential plans are evaluated possibly by ranking as to suitability. Some of the ranked potential plans may be retained in memory. The evaluations are made available for feed back to the genetic optimization process for further genetic optimization. The genetic optimization decoding evaluation and feedback process repeats or iterates until some criterion is reached. In one mode of the method the criterion is a predetermined number of iterations ten in the example . Following the completion of iteration the latest decoded solutions are ranked possibly together with the previously memorized solutions to thereby generate ranked potential plans. One of the highest ranked potential plans is selected as the desired plan. Most often the desired plan is deemed to be the highest ranked plan. In a particular mode of this method the step of generating a binary string representing a plan comprises the steps of assigning a first block of bits to represent the locations of all participating assets a second block of bits to represent all surveillance tasks and a third block of bits to represent all engagement tasks. In this particular mode the step of assigning a second block of bits to represent all surveillance tasks includes the steps of assigning a first sub block of bits Sensor ID of the second block of bits to represent the identity of assigned sensor a second sub block Trajectories of the second block of bits to represent the trajectory which is to be sensed a third sub block of bits Elevation of the second block of bits to represent the elevation at which sensing is to be performed and a fourth sub block of bits Energy of the second block of bits to represent the energy allocated to the sensing task. In this particular mode the step of assigning a third block of bits to represent all engagement tasks includes the steps of assigning a first sub block of bits Asset ID of the third block of bits to represent the identity of assigned asset and assigning a second sub block Trajectories of the third block of bits to represent the trajectory which is to be engaged.

