---

title: Methods and compositions to elicit multivalent immune responses against dominant and subdominant epitopes, expressed on cancer cells and tumor stroma
abstract: The present invention provides a method of treating cancer by providing to a subject in need thereof an immunogenic composition comprising a nucleic acid construct encoding a polypeptide comprising CTL epitopes PSMAand PRAME, or a cross-reactive analogue. In embodiments of the present invention there is provided methods and compositions for inducing, entraining, and/or amplifying the immune response to MHC class-I restricted epitopes of carcinoma antigens to generate an effective anti-cancer immune response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07999088&OS=07999088&RS=07999088
owner: MannKind Corporation
number: 07999088
owner_city: Valencia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060616
---
The present application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 691 579 filed on Jun. 17 2005 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference without disclaimer.

The invention disclosed herein is directed to inducing an MHC class I restricted immune response and controlling the nature and magnitude of the response thereby promoting effective immunologic intervention in pathogenic processes. The invention relates to immunogenic compositions that can stimulate a cellular immune response against a target cell. Disclosed herein is an immunogenic composition comprising a nucleic acid construct encoding the CTL epitopes PRAMEand PSMAor a cross reactive analogue of either or both of epitopes. The invention also provides methods of using the described immunogenic composition to elicit a balanced immune response in a subject to whom such compositions are administered.

Cancer generally develops when cells in a part of the body continue to grow and divide in an unorderly manner unlike normal cells that grow divide and die in an orderly fashion. Although there are many kinds of cancer they usually start because of out of control growth of abnormal cells.

Usual treatment options for cancer include surgery radiation therapy and chemotherapy. A fourth branch of treatment is developing which is referred to as immunotherapy. Immunotherapies attempt to help the immune system recognize cancer cells and or to strengthen a response against cancer cells in order to destroy the cancer. Immunotherapies include active and passive immunotherapies. Active immunotherapies attempt to stimulate the body s own immune system to fight the disease. Passive immunotherapies generally do not rely on the body to attack the disease instead they use immune system components such as antibodies created outside of the patient s body.

Despite various types of cancer treatments a continuing need exists for additional treatment options. Manipulation of the immune system by use of an anticancer vaccine is one such approach.

To generate a vaccine or other immunogenic composition an antigen or epitope against which an immune response can be mounted is introduced to a subject. Although neoplastic cancer cells are derived from and therefore are substantially identical to normal cells on a genetic level many neoplastic cells are known to present tumor associated antigens TuAAs . In theory these antigens could be used by a subject s immune system to recognize and attack the neoplastic cells as foreign. Unfortunately neoplastic cells generally appear to be ignored by the host s immune system.

The immune system can be categorized into two discrete effector arms. The first is innate immunity which involves numerous cellular components and soluble factors that respond to all infectious challenges. The other is the adaptive immune response which is customized to respond specifically to precise epitopes from infectious agents. The adaptive immune response is further broken down into two effector arms known as the humoral and cellular immune systems. The humoral arm is centered on the production of antibodies by B lymphocytes while the cellular arm involves the killer cell activity of cytotoxic T lymphocytes.

Cytotoxic T lymphocytes CTL do not recognize epitopes on the infectious agents themselves. Rather CTL detect fragments of antigens derived from infectious agents that are displayed on the surface of infected cells. As a result antigens are visible to CTL only after they have been processed by the infected cell and thus displayed on the surface of the cell.

The antigen processing and display system on the surface of cells has been well established. CTL recognize short peptide antigens which are displayed on the surface in non covalent association with class I major histocompatibility complex molecules MHC . These class I peptides are in turn derived from the degradation of cytosolic proteins.

In most instances neoplastic processes evolve to avoid the immune defense mechanisms by employing a range of strategies that result in immune ignorance tolerance or deviation. Methods that effectively break immune tolerance or repair immune deviation against antigens expressed on cancer cells have been described in the literature Okano F et al. 2005 Mar 1 174 5 2645 52 Mocellin S et al. 2004 Oct 1 299 2 267 78 Banat G A et al. 2001 Jan 49 11 573 86 and despite their association with significant levels of systemic immunity rarely result in reduction of tumor burden. Significant limiting factors impacting this process are sub optimal trafficking local activation and or activity of anti tumoral effector cells. In fact it has been shown in most instances that the intra tumoral presence of immune cells is a rare occurrence compared to that associated with inflammatory processes such as organ rejection infections or autoimmune syndromes.

The immune response resulting from exposure to antigens in a natural context or upon vaccination that encompass multiple epitopes is inherently associated with a hierarchy relative to the magnitude of the immune response against different individual epitopes. This occurs in the case of T cell epitopes such as MHC class I and class II restricted epitopes where dominance and subdominance has been well documented. Dominant epitopes are those that elicit prominent and specific expansions of T cells whereas subdominant epitopes elicit relatively reduced responses characterized by a limited expansion of specific T cells with diminished functionality.

There are multiple reasons for an immune response to focus on a subset of epitopes within an antigen regardless of whether the antigen is natural or engineered. These reasons include but are not limited to the following efficacy of generation of certain peptides or polypeptide precursors within proteasomes for class I restricted or endosomes for class II restricted their selective transport via TAP for class I peptides and alternative mechanisms to compartments where loading onto MHC occurs their affinity for MHC molecules relative to chaperones or the invariant polypeptide chain that occupies the peptide binding cleft of nascent MHC molecules and relative to other competing peptides resulting from processing of the same or alternative substrates the stability of the resulting MHC peptide complex and the functionality of T cell repertoire.

In addition two or more epitopes from different antigens brought together on the same artificial molecule assume a dominant subdominant relationship due to their intrinsic properties such as those described above . This limits the practical applicability of composite molecules for the purpose of immunotherapy particularly when co targeting of cancer cells neoplastic and stromal elements such as neovasculature is pursued.

To amplify immune mediated control of tumoral processes embodiments of the present invention provide immune mediated attack of neovasculature in addition to direct attack on tumor cells as a component of a bi or multi valent vaccine strategy aimed at establishing an inflammatory environment within the tumor resulting in shrinkage stabilization or diminution of growth rate and invasion local or systemic . This methodology can be more effective in controlling tumor processes than strategies that target either cancer cells or the neovasculature alone and has beneficial implications in regard to therapeutic index efficacy safety .

Some embodiments relate to methods and compositions that modulate the immune responses against epitopes with different intrinsic immune properties e.g. dominant versus subdominant status in a given immunization context in a manner consistent with increasing the relative activity of subdominant epitopes to achieve co induction of balanced immune responses against multiple epitopes. This invention is useful when co targeting multiple antigens such as those expressed by cancer cells and or underlying stroma.

In some embodiments co targeting of tumor neovasculature and cancerous cells or of multiple antigens on cancer cells can be achieved by immunotherapeutic compositions comprising expression vectors such as plasmids that elicit immunity against transformed cells tumor cells and endothelial cells of the neovasculature. Design of plasmids in a string of beads format is accomplished as disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication Application No. 20030228634 entitled EXPRESSION VECTORS ENCODING EPITOPES OF TARGET ASSOCIATED ANTIGENS AND METHODS FOR THEIR DESIGN and herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. A preferred embodiment is a bivalent plasmid comprising immunogenic elements derived from molecule s expressed on cancer cells and molecule s expressed on neovasculature. In particular embodiments of the invention such molecules correspond to the PRAME and PSMA epitopes and cross reactive analogues thereof.

In another embodiment vectors such as plasmids express immunogenic elements derived from molecules co expressed by cancer cells and neovasculature. In yet another embodiment vectors such as plasmids express immunogenic elements derived from a receptor and its ligand where either the receptor or ligand is expressed by the neovasculature and cancer cells express the other.

In still another embodiment vectors encode immunogenic components from molecules expressed by cancer cells or neovasculature or other stromal cells along with biological response modifiers including modifiers that act via antigen receptors on B and T cells and those that do not.

In some embodiments vectors can be administered in a chronological sequence with other immunogenic agents such as peptides for the purpose of amplifying or modulating the therapeutic activity against cancer cells neovasculature or both disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050079152 entitled METHODS TO CONTROL MHC CLASS I RESTRICTED IMMUNE RESPONSE U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 640 402 filed Dec. 29 2004 and U.S. Publication No. 20060165711 all entitled METHODS TO ELICIT ENHANCE AND SUSTAIN IMMUNE RESPONSE AGAINST MHC CLASS I RESTRICTED EPITOPES FOR PROPHYLACTIC OR THERAPEUTIC PURPOSES and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 691 581 filed on Jun. 17 2004 entitled MULTIVALENT IMMUNOTHERAPEUTICS FOR CARCINOMA and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 455 279 entitled MUTLIVALENT IMMUNOTHERAPIES FOR CARCINOMA filed on date even with this application both entitled each of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety and balancing the response against subdominant and dominant epitopes.

Inducing immune responses to epitopes that are subdominant in context of a native antigen provides benefit in treating cancer since such epitopes can be involved in negative selection central or peripheral occurring in diseased individuals. Thus constructs encompassing multiple copies of a subdominant epitope can be used to induce an increased response against such an epitope while preserving immunity against dominant ones.

In addition effective co induction of immune responses against epitopes from different antigens presented by the same molecule can offer a more practical approach to generate immunity against multiple antigens. This has direct implications for treatment and prevention of tumoral and infectious diseases.

Overall broader immune responses achieved by such methods and compositions are more effective in dealing with pathogenic processes as opposed to immune responses heavily dominated by a limited number of specificities. In addition practicality of multivalent vectors in such methods and compositions can alleviate the need to use numerous components and cumbersome administration protocols to achieve balanced multivalent responses.

Some embodiments relate to bivalent plasmids expressing PRAME and PSMA epitope sequences such as those disclosed in the U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 20030220239 20050221440 20050142144 and PCT Patent Publication No. PCT US 11101 entitled EPITOPE SEQUENCES herein each incorporated by reference in its entirety and methods of use of these compositions individually or in combination with other plasmids to elicit a balanced immune response. Such methods can include an initiating or entraining step wherein the composition can be delivered to various locations on the animal but preferably is delivered to the lymphatic system for example a lymph node. The entrainment step can include one or more deliveries of that composition for example spread out over a period of time or in a continuous fashion over a period of time.

The methods can further include an amplification step comprising administering a composition comprising a peptide immunogen having substantial similarity or functional similarity to the corresponding epitopes encoded by the nucleic acid composition. For example the immunogen can be a cross reactive sequence of the corresponding epitope. The amplification step can be performed one or more times for example at intervals over a period of time in one bolus or continuously over a period of time. Although not required in all embodiments some embodiments can include the use of compositions that include an immunopotentiator or adjuvant.

It has been observed that by using this type of immunization protocol that not only can the plasmid initiate an immune response it biases the response and its subsequent amplification toward an effector as opposed to a regulatory character. Without this prior nucleic acid based immunization the repeated administration of peptide leads to a response ever more dominated by regulatory T cells. The long lived bias toward an effector response is termed entrainment.

Further embodiments include those in which the disclosed plasmids are used individually or in any combination. The peptide compositions corresponding to these epitopes and used in the amplification portion of the immunization strategy can be native sequences or peptide analogs substantially similar or functionally similar to the native epitope sequence. The peptides can be incorporated into the amplification protocol individually or in combinations of 2 3 or 4 of the immunogens. Reasons for using less than all peptide epitopes include but are not limited to the following 1 sub optimal expression of any of the antigens 2 the patient does not express or no longer expresses the corresponding antigen 3 a less robust response is being generated to one or another of the epitopes in which case such peptide s can be given in the absence of the others in order to obtain a more balanced response and 4 a peptide can be discontinued if it is generating some sort of immunotoxicity.

Additional embodiments relate to methods of modulating the immune response by changing the relative number of immunogen epitopes within a nucleic acid composition. These embodiments can also encompass changing the intrinsic immunogenicity of the immunogen for example by encoding amino acid substitutions within the immunogen epitope.

Embodiments additionally can encompass methods of modulating the immune response by selective up regulation by peptide boost. The peptide compositions corresponding to this amplification step can be native sequences or peptide analogs substantially similar or functionally similar to the native epitope sequence. The selective up regulation can be achieved by administration of the peptide corresponding to the subdominant epitope in order to obtain a balanced immune response.

Still other embodiments include plasmids that encode an analogue of either the PSMA or PRAME epitopes. Further embodiments can include different epitopes such as those disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 20030220239 and 20040180354 both entitled EPITOPE SEQUENCES and herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and analogues substituted in similar combination as the epitopes expressed in the RP8 and RP12 plasmids and corresponding peptide immunogens such as those disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 691 889 entitled EPITOPE ANALOGUES filed on Jun. 17 2005 and herein incorporated by reference in its entirety administered as the amplification portion of the immunization strategy.

Some embodiments relate to nucleic acid constructs encoding a polypeptide that includes one or more copies of CTL epitope PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 and one or more copies of CTL epitope PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 or a cross reactive analogue comprising 1 3 substitutions of one or both of the epitopes wherein the polypeptide does not include a whole antigen. The one or both epitopes can be encoded within a liberation sequence for example. The polypeptide further can include a sequence encoding one or more epitope clusters. The nucleic acid construct can include a PRAME epitope cluster for example amino acid 422 509 of PRAME SEQ ID NO 21 . The nucleic acid construct can include a PSMA epitope cluster for example one or more epitope clusters can be amino acids 3 45 SEQ ID NO 22 or 217 297 of PSMA SEQ ID NO 23 . The PSMA epitope analogue can contain a 1297V substitution for example. The nucleic acid construct further can include one or more of a nuclear import sequence a promoter for example a cytomegalovirus CMV promoter a poly A sequence or one or more of a CpG immunostimulatory motifs. The liberation sequence of both the PRAME and PSMA epitopes can be located for example in the N terminal portion of the encoded polypeptide. The encoded polypeptide can be for example SEQ ID NO 2. The liberation sequence of both the PRAME and PSMA epitopes can be located for example in the C terminal portion of the encoded polypeptide. For example the encoded polypeptide can be SEQ ID NO 4.

Some embodiments relate to immunogenic compositions that include a nucleic acid construct described above and elsewhere herein.

Some embodiments relate to methods of treating an individual having cancer the methods can include the step of administering a therapeutically effective amount of a nucleic acid construct described above and elsewhere herein. The nucleic acid construct can be administered intranodally for example. The individual can have a cancer that expresses PRAME SEQ ID NO 20 PSMA SEQ ID NO 19 or both in neoplastic cells or tumor associated neovasculature cells.

Some embodiments relate to methods of treating an individual having cancer. The methods can include the steps of administering an effective amount of the nucleic acid construct described above and elsewhere herein to induce an immune response and amplifying the immune response by boosting with at least one peptide analogue corresponding to an epitope encoded by the nucleic acid construct. The individual can have for example a cancer that expresses PRAME on cancer cells and PSMA on tumor associated vasculature cells. The individual can have a cancer that expresses PRAME PSMA or both in neoplastic cells or tumor associated neovasculature cells.

Some embodiments relate to use of an immunogenic composition or nucleic acid construct as described above and elsewhere herein in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of an individual having cancer. The medicament can be for the treatment of an individual having cancer by administering the medicament intranodally. The individual can have a cancer that expresses PRAME PSMA or both in neoplastic cells or tumor associated neovasculature cells.

Some embodiments relate to the use of an immunogenic composition or a nucleic acid construct as described above and elsewhere herein in the preparation of a medicament for use in the inducing an immune response targeting of tumor associated neovasculature. For example the tumor associated vasculature cells displays PRAME.

Embodiments relate to compositions that can elicit multivalent immune responses against dominant and subdominant epitopes. Some embodiments also relate to methods of designing the composition by selecting antigens that are expressed by cancer cells and or stromal neovasculature cells defining epitopes that can have different intrinsic immune properties that constitute valid immune targets on such cancer or stromal cells and modulating the relative number of dominant and subdominant epitopes within a certain molecule such as a therapeutic vector by decreasing the ratio between the number of dominant and subdominant epitopes while providing optimal flanking residues for appropriate generation within processing compartments.

Additional methods are described such as replacing one or multiple copies of subdominant epitopes with analogue sequences or preferentially positioning epitopes within the molecule to modify the relative immunogenicity of such epitopes and ensure a more balanced multivalent response. Testing for efficacy can follow the design of a set of candidate epitopes. Use of such molecules can be complemented by selective amplification of responses against subdominant epitopes in the context of prime boost immunization strategies.

The general method for vaccine design can involve utilizing a defined algorithm that starts with a natural or artificial sequence to find the correct ratio of dominant and subdominant epitopes for plasmids vectors and molecules encompassing multiple copies of dominant and subdominant epitopes engineering a set of compounds in vitro and in vivo characterization steps and selection of appropriate plasmids or other vectors eliciting the desired balanced immune response.

An epitope as referred to herein is a molecule or substance capable of stimulating an immune response. In preferred embodiments epitopes according to this definition include but are not necessarily limited to a polypeptide and a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide wherein the polypeptide is capable of stimulating an immune response. In other preferred embodiments epitopes according to this definition include but are not necessarily limited to peptides presented on the surface of cells the peptides being non covalently bound to the binding cleft of class I MHC such that they can interact with T cell receptors.

An MHC epitope as referred to herein is a polypeptide having a known or predicted binding affinity for a mammalian class I or class II major histocompatibility complex MHC molecule.

An immune epitope referred to herein is a polypeptide fragment that is an MHC epitope and that is displayed on a cell in which immune proteasomes are predominantly active. In another preferred embodiment an immune epitope is defined as a polypeptide containing an immune epitope according to the foregoing definition which is flanked by one to several additional amino acids. In another preferred embodiment an immune epitope is defined as a polypeptide including an epitope cluster sequence having at least two polypeptide sequences having a known or predicted affinity for a class I MHC. In yet another preferred embodiment an immune epitope is defined as a nucleic acid that encodes an immune epitope according to any of the foregoing definitions.

SUBSTANTIAL SIMILARITY this term is used to refer to sequences that differ from a reference sequence in an inconsequential way as judged by examination of the sequence. Nucleic acid sequences encoding the same amino acid sequence are substantially similar despite differences in degenerate positions or modest differences in length or composition of any non coding regions. Amino acid sequences differing only by conservative substitution or minor length variations are substantially similar. Additionally amino acid sequences comprising housekeeping epitopes that differ in the number of N terminal flanking residues or immune epitopes and epitope clusters that differ in the number of flanking residues at either terminus are substantially similar. Nucleic acids that encode substantially similar amino acid sequences are themselves also substantially similar.

FUNCTIONAL SIMILARITY this term is used to refer to sequences that differ from a reference sequence in an inconsequential way as judged by examination of a biological or biochemical property although the sequences may not be substantially similar. For example two nucleic acids can be useful as hybridization probes for the same sequence but encode differing amino acid sequences. Two peptides that induce cross reactive CTL responses are functionally similar even if they differ by non conservative amino acid substitutions and thus do not meet the substantial similarity definition . Pairs of antibodies or TCRs that recognize the same epitope can be functionally similar to each other despite whatever structural differences exist. In testing for functional similarity of immunogenicity one would generally immunize with the altered antigen and test the ability of the elicited response Ab CTL cytokine production etc. to recognize the target antigen. Accordingly two sequences may be designed to differ in certain respects while retaining the same function. Such designed sequence variants are among the embodiments of the present invention.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a number of plasmids e.g pRP8 SEQ ID NO 1 pRP9 pRP10 pRP11 pRP12 SEQ ID NO 3 and pRP13 having the ability to elicit or promote a bivalent response against the tumor associated antigens PRAME and PSMA specifically against the epitopes PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 and PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 . In particular embodiments of the invention there are provided the plasmids pRP12 and pRP8 as immunogenic compositions. The methodology for generating plasmid constructs of the invention are as detailed below.

Plasmid construction in preferred embodiments can entail stepwise ligation of sets of long complementary oligonucleotides resulting in the generation of DNA sequence encoding epitopes arrayed as a string of beads. These DNAs bear appropriate cohesive ends for restriction enzymes that can be used for further ligation with DNAs encoding epitope cluster regions which are amplified by performing PCR on cloned cDNA for PSMA or PRAME as a template. The entire insert is then ligated into the vector backbone between Afl II and EcoR I restriction sites. The entire coding sequence is verified by DNA sequencing. PCR based mutagenesis can be used to generate sequence encoding analogue epitope peptide or to adjust the copies number of dominant subdominant epitopes to achieve the desired ratio. The sequences of the two plasmids RP8 and RP12 are described in detail and disclosed as SEQ ID NO.1 and SEQ ID NO.3. For the specific plasmids described herein the vector backbone is a modified version of pVAX by Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. which has been previously disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 709 844 entitled Avoidance of Undesirable Replication Intermediates in Plasmid Propagation and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 561 572 entitled Expression Vectors Encoding Epitopes of Target Associated Antigens each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. One of skill in the art will recognize that the coding sequences of the present invention can be placed in any nucleic acid vector suitable for use as a vaccine without exceeding the scope of the invention. For example the sequences encoding the other mentioned plasmids can be inserted into the same or a similar backbone as used in pRP8 and pRP12 plasmids.

pRP8 and pRP12 are recombinant DNA plasmids that encode one polypeptide with HLA A2 restricted CTL epitopes from PSMA 288 297 SEQ ID NO 6 and an analogue thereof and PRAME 425 433 SEQ ID NO 5 . Both polypeptides also include regions comprising epitope clusters of PSMA 3 45 SEQ ID NO 22 217 297 SEQ ID NO 24 and PRAME 422 509 SEQ ID NO 21 . Flanking the defined PSMA and PRAME epitopes are short amino acid sequences optimal for liberation of the epitopes in question by immunoproteasome processing. The coding sequence for the polypeptide in the plasmid is under the control of promoter enhancer sequence from cytomegalovirus CMVp which allows efficient transcription of mRNA for the polypeptide upon uptake by APCs. The bovine growth hormone polyadenylation signal BGH polyA at the 3 end of the encoding sequence provides a signal for polyadenylation of the messenger to increase its stability as well as for translocation out of the nucleus into the cytoplasm for translation. To facilitate plasmid transport into the nucleus after uptake a nuclear import sequence NIS from simian virus 40 SV40 has been inserted in the plasmid backbone. The plasmid carries two copies of a CpG immunostimulatory motif one in the NIS sequence and one in the plasmid backbone. Lastly two prokaryotic genetic elements in the plasmid are responsible for amplification in the kanamycin resistance gene Kan R and the pMB1 bacterial origin of replication.

For RP8 the amino acid sequence of the encoded polypeptide 297 amino acid residues in length SEQ ID NO 2 contains two liberation sequences a 17 amino acid substrate at its N terminus for PRAME MKRPSIKR SLLQHLIGL SEQ ID NO 25 and a 66 ammo acid substrate at its C terminus for PSMA RK GLPSIPVHPI LV GLPSIPVHPI KRISPEKEEQYIAKR GLPSIPVHPI KRPSIK RGLPSIPVHPV SEQ ID NO 8 . The entire polypeptide sequence of the encoded immunogen SEQ ID NO 2 is shown in .

The stretch of the first 8 amino acid residues is an artificial sequence that has been shown to facilitate processing of CTL epitopes by immunoproteasomes. The next 9 amino acids in italics are PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 a potent HLA A2 specific CTL epitope that triggers strong anti tumor immune responses in both in vitro immunization of human PBMC and in vivo immunization in mice. This PRAME epitope sequence is followed by a segment amino acid 18 105 of the immunogen of PRAME comprising two epitope clusters PRAME SEQ ID NO 26 and PRAME SEQ ID NO 27 . Two PSMA epitope clusters in italics PSMA SEQ ID NO 22 amino acid 108 150 and PSMA SEQ ID NO 24 amino acid 151 231 are placed after the PRAME epitope cluster. These and other PRAME and PSMA epitope clusters have been disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 117 937 11 067 064 and 11 067 159 each entitled Epitope Sequences and each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. These epitope clusters contain a number of predicted HLA A2 specific epitopes and thus can be useful in generating a response to immune epitopes described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20030215425 entitled EPITOPE SYNCHRONIZATION IN ANTIGEN PRESENTING CELLS and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 20030228634 20040132088 and 20040203051 entitled EPITOPE CLUSTERS each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . A string of beads epitope array with multiple copies of PSMA GLPSIPVHPI SEQ ID NO 6 in boldface constitutes the rest of the polypeptide amino acid 232 297 . Four copies of PSMAare incorporated with the last copy being an analogue GLPSIPVHPV SEQ ID NO 7 . Both the native PSMAand its analogue have been shown to induce significant CTL responses in both in vitro immunization of human PBMC and in vivo immunization in mice with the analogue displaying elevated MHC class I binding and immunogenicity. Between PSMAepitope sequences are short amino acid sequences designated to be cleavage helper sequences to facilitate the processing and liberation of the epitope. These two epitopes are thus encoded in such a manner that they can be expressed processed and presented by pAPCs.

For the RP12 plasmid the amino acid sequence of the encoded polypeptide 275 amino acid residues in length SEQ ID NO 4 contains one amino acid substrate or liberation sequence and a hybrid string of beads encompassing a substrate at its C terminus for the liberation of both the PRAME and PSMA epitopes. The entire polypeptide sequence of the encoded immunogen is shown in . The liberation sequence represented as SEQ ID NO 9 is as follows KR SLLQHLIGL GDAAY SLLQHLIGL ISPEKEEQYIA SLLQHLIGL KRPSIKR GLPSIPVHPV.

Segments of amino acid 2 44 45 126 and 127 213 of the encoded immunogen are epitope clusters joined one to the next PSMA SEQ ID NO 22 PSMA SEQ ID NO 23 and PRAME SEQ ID NO 21 respectively. In the string of beads hybrid substrate there are 3 copies of PRAME SLLQHLIGL in boldface SEQ ID NO 5 and one copy of PSMAanalogue GLPSIPVHPV in sans serif boldface SEQ ID NO 7 at the C terminus of the polypeptide. Between the PRAMEand PSMAepitope sequences are the short amino acid sequences designated to be cleavage helper sequences to facilitate processing and liberation of the epitopes. These two epitopes are thus encoded in such a manner that they can be expressed processed and presented by pAPCs.

Further details on the RP12 plasmid are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 691 579 filed on Jun. 17 2005 entitled METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS TO ELICIT MULTIVALENT IMMUNE RESPONSES AGAINST DOMINANT AND SUBDOMINANT EPITOPES EXPRESSED ON CANCER CELLS AND TUMOR STROMA incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. All other plasmids were constructed in a similar fashion using the methodology as applied to RP8 and RP12. The plasmid R2 also referred to as pCTLR2 is disclosed in the Examples. The P2 plasmid as shown in is a monovalent PSMA plasmid. The RP5 plasmid encompasses elements from both P2 and R2.

Various methodologies for constructing or designing plasmids are well established in the art as would be known to the skilled artisan. Such methodologies are described in many references such as for example Molecular Cloning Sambrook J and Russell D. W. CSHL Press 2001 specifically incorporated herein by reference.

In constructing the nucleic acids encoding the polypeptide epitopes of the invention the gene sequence of the associated tumor associated antigen e.g. PRAME and PSMA can be used or the polynucleotide can be assembled from any of the corresponding codons. For a 10 amino acid epitope this can constitute on the order of 10different sequences depending on the particular amino acid composition. While large this is a distinct and readily definable set representing a miniscule fraction of the 10possible polynucleotides of this length and thus in some embodiments equivalents of a particular sequence disclosed herein encompass such distinct and readily definable variations on the listed sequence. In choosing a particular one of these sequences to use in a vaccine considerations such as codon usage self complementarity restriction sites chemical stability etc. can be used as will be apparent to one skilled in the art.

An epitope cluster as contemplated in the present invention is a polypeptide or a nucleic acid sequence encoding it that is a segment of a native protein sequence comprising two or more known or predicted epitopes with binding affinity for a shared MHC restriction element wherein the density of epitopes within the cluster is greater than the density of all known or predicted epitopes with binding affinity for the shared MHC restriction element within the complete protein sequence. Epitope clusters and their uses are described in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 20030220239 20050221440 20050142144 20030215425 20030228634 20040132088 20040203051 and PCT Patent Application Publication No. PCT US 11101 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

A substrate or liberation sequence as employed in the present invention is a designed or engineered sequence comprising or encoding a PRAME and or PSMA epitope embedded in a larger sequence that provides a context allowing the PRAME and or PSMA epitope to be liberated by immunoproteasomal processing directly or in combination with N terminal trimming or other processes.

The following are additional examples of encoded polypeptide sequences that can be used in some embodiments for example they can be encoded by the various plasmids or used in the methods etc.

The present invention contemplates the use of multiple molecules expressed by cancer cells and by the neovasculature as therapeutic targets in the treatment of cancer by active immunotherapy. Such molecules include tumor associated antigens TuAAs which are antigens expressed by the cancer cell itself or associated with non cancerous components of the tumor such as tumor associated neovasculature or other stroma. Determination of TuAA expression profiles can help to match a patient s cancer condition or type with an appropriate immunotherapeutic agent or regimen. In particular embodiments epitopes of the tumor associated antigens PRAME and PSMA are employed in designing bivalent plasmids that can elicit a strong immune response in a subject to whom such plasmid are administered as a cancer therapeutics. Cross reactive analogues of PRAME and PSMA are also contemplated in the embodiments of the present invention.

The tumor associated antigen PRAME SEQ ID NO 20 employed in the present invention is also known as MAPE DAGE and OIP4. PRAME is known in the art as a cancer testis CT antigen. However unlike many CT antigens such as MAGE GAGE and BAGE it is expressed in acute myeloid leukemias. PRAME as a TuAA is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 830 753 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In preferred embodiments the present invention provides epitopes of PRAME and analogues thereof.

Another TuAA employed in the present invention is the prostate specific membrane antigen PSMA SEQ ID NO 19 . PSMA is found to be highly expressed in prostate cancer cells. However PSMA expression is also noted in normal prostate epithelium and in the neovasculature of non prostatic tumors. PSMA as an anti neovasculature preparation is disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 274 063 and U.S. Patent Publication Application Nos. 20030046714 and 20050260234 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. PSMA as a TuAA is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 538 866 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In preferred embodiments the present invention provides epitopes of PSMA and analogues thereof.

Cross reactive analogue as used herein may refer to a peptide comprising 1 3 amino acid substitutions and or one amino acid deletion or addition as compared to the native peptide sequence that induces effector function e.g. cytolysis or cytokine secretion distinguishable from background from a CTL reactive with the native peptide. In preferred embodiments effector function is at least 30 50 60 70 or 80 of that induced by the native peptide.

In some embodiments of the present invention peptides comprising the native sequence or analogues cross reactive of PRAME and PSMA may also be administered as a peptide boost in combination with the plasmids of the invention. Native peptide sequences and peptide analogues of PRAME and PSMA arc disclosed in U.S. Patent Application No. 20060057673 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 691 889 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The peptide analogues PRAMEL426Nva L433Nle SEQ ID NO 30 and PSMAI297V SEQ ID NO 7 are described in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 580 962 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 155 929 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 581 001 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 156 253 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 156 369 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 691 889 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 455 278 entitled PRAME PEPTIDE ANALOGUES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 454 633 entitled PSMA PEPTIDE ANALOGUES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 454 300 entitled MELANOMA ANTIGEN PETIDE ANALOGUES each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As discussed above some embodiments relate to immunogenic compositions for the treatment of cancer comprising plasmids encoding CTL epitopes of PRAME and PSMA and cross reactive analogues thereof. Such an immunogenic composition can elicit a robust or strong cell mediated immune response to target a particular cancer thereby eliminating eradicating or ameliorating the cancer in a subject.

In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides an immunogenic composition comprising a nucleic acid construct encoding the CTL epitopes PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 and PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 or a cross reactive analogue of either or both these epitopes. In some embodiments of the invention a plasmid prime peptide boost approach may be employed wherein the recombinant DNA plasmid expressing the PRAME and PSMA epitopes may be administered in conjunction with a synthetic peptides such as a PRAME and or PSMA peptide or analogue thereof.

The immunogenic composition of the invention comprising a nucleic acid construct encoding the CTL epitopes PRAMEand PSMAor a cross reactive analogue of one or both epitopes can be delivered via lymph node injection directly into the organs where the immune responses are initiated and amplified according to an optimized immunization schedule. Embodiments of the current invention can be administered to patients with tumor tissue that express HLA A2 particularly HLA A 0201. Therefore the immunogenic composition comprising a plasmid and one or more peptides or analogues thereof can be administered in treating a cancer in a subject. The disclosed embodiments of the present invention relate to entrain and amplify therapeutics for cancer that can be used to achieve a bi or multivalent attack offering the advantage of increasing the sensitivity of the tumor to attack.

Therefore in particular embodiments the present invention provides bivalent entraining and amplifying therapeutics for the treatment of cancer. Such bivalent therapeutics can target more than one antigen on a tumor cell. In instances where more than a single antigen on a tumor cell is targeted the effective concentration of antitumor therapeutic is increased accordingly. Attack on stroma associated with the tumor such as vasculature can increase the accessibility of the tumor cells to the agent s targeting them. Thus even an antigen that is also expressed on some normal tissue can receive greater consideration as a target antigen if the other antigens to be targeted in a bi or multivalent attack are not also expressed by that tissue. The plasmids of the current invention can be used in conjunction with additional plasmids that express other epitopes and corresponding amplifying peptides to create therapeutic protocols of higher valency. Exemplary immunogenic products are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 691 581 filed on Jun. 17 2005 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 455 279 filed on date even with the instant application each entitled MULTIVALENT ENTRAIN AND AMPLIFY IMMUNOTHERAPEUTICS FOR CARCINOMA and each incorporated by reference in its entirety.

An entraining immunogen as contemplated in the present invention includes in many embodiments an induction that confers particular stability on the immune profile of the induced lineage of T cells.

As contemplated in the present invention the term amplifying or amplification as of a T cell response includes in many embodiments a process for increasing the number of cells the number of activated cells the level of activity rate of proliferation or similar parameter of T cells involved in a specific response.

The entrain and amplify protocol employed in the present invention is described in greater detail in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20050079152 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 640 402 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 323 572 each entitled METHODS TO ELICIT ENHANCE AND SUSTAIN IMMUNE RESPONSES AGAINST MHC CLASS I RESTRICTED EPITOPES FOR PROPHYLACTIC OR THERAPEUTIC PURPOSES which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In some embodiments the present invention may further employ a biological response modifier BRM or immunopotentiator in conjunction with the immunogenic compositions comprising a recombinant DNA plasmid encoding the CTL epitopes PRAME and PSMA in eliciting an immune response. The immunopotentiators or BRMs contemplated by the present invention can act in an immunosuppressive or immunostimulatory manner to mediate an immune response. Immunopotentiators or BRMs of the present invention may refer to any molecule that modulates the activity of the immune system or the cells thereof through an interaction other than with an antigen receptor. BRMs as contemplated in the present invention may further include natural or synthetic small organic molecules that exert immune modulating effects by stimulating pathways of innate immunity.

In particular embodiments the present invention also contemplates immunopotentiators or BRMS which may include but are not limited to for example cytokines such as IL 12 IL 18 GM CSF flt3 ligand flt3L interferons TNF alpha and the like chemokines such as IL 8 MIP 3alpha MIP 1alpha MCP 1 MCP 3 RANTES and the like. Other examples of BRMs that may be utilized in the present invention are molecules that trigger cytokine or chemokine production such as ligands for Toll like receptors TLRs peptidoglycans LPS or analogues unmethylated CpG oligodeoxynuelotides CpG ODNs dsRNAs such as bacterial dsDNA which contains CpG motifs and synthetic dsRNA polyI C APC and innate immune cells that bind to TLR9 and TLR3 respectively. One class of BRM includes mostly small organic natural or synthetic molecules which exert immune modulating effects by stimulating pathways of innate immunity. Thus small molecules that bind to TLRs such as a new generation of purely synthetic anti viral imidazoquinolines e.g. imiquimod and resiquimod that have been found to stimulate the cellular path of immunity by binding the TLRs 7 and 8 Hemmi H. et al. Dummer R. et al. 207 116 118 2003 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety may be employed. BRMs may further include immunopotentiating adjuvants that activate pAPC or T cells including for example endocytic Pattern Recognition Receptor PRR ligands quillaja saponins tucaresol and the like.

In the present invention the preferred administration of the immunogenic composition comprising recombinant DNA plasmids encoding the CTL epitopes PRAME and PSMA or such plasmids followed by one or more peptide s as one or more boost is via lymph node injection. Other immunization protocols for example using plasmid for other than the initiation dose s relying on plasmid alone or utilizing other types of boosting reagents while less preferred embodiments are not excluded from the scope of the invention. Embodiments of the present invention encompass bivalent plasmids expressing both of the immunogens PRAME and PSMA. In delivering the immunogenic compositions of the invention to a subject in need thereof lymph node injection is preferred as it allows for delivery directly into the organs where the immune responses are initiated and amplified according to an optimized immunization schedule.

To introduce the immunogenic composition into the lymphatic system of the patient the composition is preferably directed to a lymph vessel lymph node the spleen or other appropriate portion of the lymphatic system. In some embodiments each component is administered as a bolus. In other embodiments one or more components are delivered by infusion generally over several hours to several days. Preferably the composition is directed to a lymph node such as an inguinal or axillary node by inserting a catheter or needle to the node and maintaining the catheter or needle throughout the delivery. Suitable needles or catheters are available made of metal or plastic e.g. polyurethane polyvinyl chloride PVC TEFLON polyethylene and the like . In inserting the catheter or needle into the inguinal node for example the inguinal node is punctured under ultrasonographic control using a Vialon Insyte W cannula and catheter of 24G3 4 Becton Dickinson USA which is fixed using Tegaderm transparent dressing Tegaderm St. Paul Minn. USA . An experienced radiologist generally does this procedure. The location of the catheter tip inside the inguinal lymph node is confirmed by injection of a minimal volume of saline which immediately and visibly increases the size of the lymph node. The latter procedure allows confirmation that the tip is inside the node. This procedure can be performed to ensure that the tip does not slip out of the lymph node and can be repeated on various days after implantation of the catheter.

The therapeutic composition s of the present invention may be administered to a patient in a manner consistent with standard vaccine delivery protocols that are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Methods of administering immunogenic compositions of the present invention comprising plasmids and peptides or peptide analogues of the TuAAs PRAME and PSMA include without limitation transdermal intranodal perinodal oral intravenous intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal and mucosal administration delivery by injection or instillation or inhalation. A particularly useful method of vaccine delivery to elicit a CTL response is disclosed in Australian Patent No. 739189 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 994 851 and 6 977 074 both entitled A METHOD OF INDUCING A CTL RESPONSE .

Various parameters can be taken into account in delivering or administering an immunogenic composition to a subject. In addition a dosage regimen and immunization schedule may be employed. Generally the amount of the components in the therapeutic composition will vary from patient to patient and from antigen to antigen depending on such factors as the activity of the antigen in inducing a response the flow rate of the lymph through the patient s system the weight and age of the subject the type of disease and or condition being treated the severity of the disease or condition previous or concurrent therapeutic interventions the capacity of the individual s immune system to synthesize antibodies the degree of protection desired the manner of administration and the like all of which can be readily determined by the practitioner.

In general the therapeutic composition may be delivered at a rate of from about 1 to about 500 microliters hour or about 24 to about 12000 microliters day. The concentration of the antigen is such that about 0.1 micrograms to about 10 000 micrograms of the antigen will be delivered during 24 hours. The flow rate is based on the knowledge that each minute approximately about 100 to about 1000 microliters of lymph fluid flows through an adult inguinal lymph node. The objective is to maximize local concentration of vaccine formulation in the lymph system. A certain amount of empirical investigation on patients will be necessary to determine the most efficacious level of infusion for a given vaccine preparation in humans.

In particular embodiments the immunogenic composition of the present invention may be administered as a number of sequential doses. Such doses may be 2 3 4 or more doses as is needed to obtain the appropriate immune response. In further embodiments of the present invention it is contemplated that the doses of the immunogenic composition would be administered within about seconds or minutes of each other into the right or left inguinal lymph nodes. For example the plasmid prime may first be injected into the right lymph node followed within seconds or minutes by a second plasmid into the right or left inguinal lymph nodes. In other instances the combination of one or more plasmid expressing one or more immunogens may be administered. It is preferred that the subsequent injection following the first injection into the lymph node be within at about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more minutes but not greater than about 30 40 50 or 60 minutes of the first injection. Similar considerations apply to the administration of two peptides individually to the right and left lymph nodes. It may be desirable to administer the doses of the immunogenic composition of the invention at an interval of days where several days 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7 or more days lapse between subsequent administrations. In other instances it may be desirable for subsequent administration s of the compositions of the invention to be administered via bilateral inguinal lymph node injection within about 1 2 3 or more weeks or within about 1 2 3 or more months following the initial dose administration.

Administration may be in any manner compatible with the dosage formulation and in such amount as will be therapeutically effective. An effective amount or dose of an immunogenic composition of the present invention is that amount needed to provide a desired response in the subject to be treated.

In addition to those already disclosed in this application the following applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties. Useful methods for using the disclosed analogs in inducing entraining maintaining modulating and amplifying class MHC restricted T cell responses and particularly effector and memory CTL responses to antigen are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 994 851 Feb. 7 2006 and 6 977 074 Dec. 20 2005 both entitled A Method of Inducing a CTL Response U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 479 393 filed on Jun. 17 2003 entitled METHODS TO CONTROL MHC CLASS I RESTRICTED IMMUNE RESPONSE and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 871 707 Pub. No. 2005 0079152 and Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 60 640 402 filed on Dec. 29 2004 both entitled Methods to elicit enhance and sustain immune responses against MHC class I restricted epitopes for prophylactic or therapeutic purpose . The analogs can also be used in research to obtain further optimized analogs. Numerous housekeeping epitopes are provided in U.S. application Ser. Nos. 10 117 937 filed on Apr. 4 2002 Pub. No. 20030220239 A1 and 10 657 022 20040180354 and in PCT Application No. PCT US2003 027706 Pub. No. WO04022709A2 filed on Sep. 5 2003 and U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 282 211 filed on Apr. 6 2001 60 337 017 filed on Nov. 7 2001 60 363 210 filed on Mar. 7 2002 and 60 409 123 filed on Sep. 5 2002 each of which applications is entitled Epitope Sequences . The analogs can further be used in any of the various modes described in those applications. Epitope clusters which may comprise or include the instant analogs are disclosed and more fully defined in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 561 571 filed on Apr. 28 2000 entitled EPITOPE CLUSTERS. Methodology for using and delivering the instant analogs is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 380 534 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 977 074 Issued Dec. 20 2005 and in PCT Application No. PCTUS98 14289 Pub. No. WO9902183A2 each entitled A METHOD OF INDUCING A CTL RESPONSE . Beneficial epitope selection principles for such immunotherapeutics are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 09 560 465 filed on Apr. 28 2000 10 026 066 Pub. No. 20030215425 A1 filed on Dec. 7 2001 and 10 005 905 filed on Nov. 7 2001 all entitled Epitope Synchronization in Antigen Presenting Cells 6 861 234 issued 1 Mar. 2005 application Ser. No. 09 561 074 entitled Method of Epitope Discovery application Ser. No. 09 561 571 filed Apr. 28 2000 entitled EPITOPE CLUSTERS application Ser. No. 10 094 699 Pub. No. 20030046714 A1 filed Mar. 7 2002 entitled Anti Neovasculature Preparations for Cancer application Ser. No. 10 117 937 Pub. No. 20030220239 A1 and PCTUS02 11101 Pub. No. WO02081646A2 both filed on Apr. 4 2002 and both entitled EPITOPE SEQUENCES and application Ser. No. 10 657 022 and PCT Application No. PCT US2003 027706 Pub. No. WO04022709A2 both filed on Sep. 5 2003 and both entitled EPITOPE SEQUENCES . Aspects of the overall design of vaccine plasmids are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 561 572 filed on Apr. 28 2000 entitled Expression Vectors Encoding Epitopes of Target Associated Antigens and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 292 413 Pub. No. 20030228634 A1 filed on Nov. 7 2002 entitled Expression Vectors Encoding Epitopes of Target Associated Antigens and Methods for their Design U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 225 568 Pub No. 2003 0138808 filed on Aug. 20 2002 PCT Application No. PCT US2003 026231 Pub. No. WO 2004 018666 filed on Aug. 19 2003 both entitled EXPRESSION VECTORS ENCODING EPITOPES OF TARGET ASSOCIATED ANTIGENS and U.S. Pat. No. 6 709 844 entitled AVOIDANCE OF UNDESIRABLE REPLICATION INTERMEDIATES IN PLASMID PROPAGATION . Specific antigenic combinations of particular benefit in directing an immune response against particular cancers are disclosed in Provisional U.S. patent Application No. 60 479 554 filed on Jun. 17 2003 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 871 708 filed on Jun. 17 2004 and PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2004 019571 Pub. No. WO 2004 112825 all entitled Combinations of tumor associated antigens in vaccines for various types of cancers . Antigens associated with tumor neovasculature e.g. PSMA VEGFR2 Tie 2 are also useful in connection with cancerous diseases as is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 094 699 Pub. No. 20030046714 A1 filed Mar. 7 2002 entitled Anti Neovasculature Preparations for Cancer . Methods to trigger maintain and manipulate immune responses by targeted administration of biological response modifiers are disclosed U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 640 727 filed on Dec. 29 2004. Methods to bypass CD4cells in the induction of an immune response are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 640 821 filed on Dec. 29 2004. Exemplary diseases organisms and antigens and epitopes associated with target organisms cells and diseases are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 977 074 issued Dec. 20 2005 filed Feb. 2 2001 and entitled METHOD OF INDUCING A CTL RESPONSE . Exemplary methodology is found in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 580 969 filed on Jun. 17 2004 and U.S. Patent Application No. 2006 0008468 A1 published on Jan. 12 2006 both entitled COMBINATIONS OF TUMOR ASSOCIATED ANTIGENS IN DIAGNOTISTICS FOR VARIOUS TYPES OF CANCERS . Methodology and compositions are also disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 640 598 filed on Dec. 29 2004 entitled COMBINATIONS OF TUMOR ASSOCAITED ANTIGENS IN COMPOSITIONS FOR VARIOUS TYPES OF CANCER . The integration of diagnostic techniques to assess and monitor immune responsiveness with methods of immunization including utilizing the instant analogs is discussed more fully in Provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 60 580 964 filed on Jun. 17 2004 and U.S. Patent Application No. US 2005 0287068 A1 published on Dec. 29 2005 both entitled Improved efficacy of active immunotherapy by integrating diagnostic with therapeutic methods . The immunogenic polypeptide encoding vectors are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 292 413 Pub. No. 20030228634 A1 filed on Nov. 7 2002 entitled Expression Vectors Encoding Epitopes of Target Associated Antigens and Methods for their Design and in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 691 579 filed on Jun. 17 2005 entitled Methods and compositions to elicit multivalent immune responses against dominant and subdominant epitopes expressed on cancer cells and tumor stroma . Additional useful disclosure including methods and compositions of matter is found in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 691 581 filed on Jun. 17 2005 entitled Multivalent Entrain and Amplify Immunotherapeutics for Carcinoma . Further methodology compositions peptides and peptide analogs are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 581 001 and 60 580 962 both filed on Jun. 17 2004 and respectively entitled SSX 2 PEPTIDE ANALOGS and NY ESO PEPTIDE ANALOGS. Each of the applications and patents mentioned in the above paragraphs is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all that it teaches. Additional analogs peptides and methods are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20060063913 entitled SSX 2 PEPTIDE ANALOGS and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0057673 A1 published on Mar. 16 2006 entitled EPITOPE ANALOGS and PCT Application Publication No. WO 2006 009920 entitled EPITOPE ANALOGS all filed on Jun. 17 2005. Further methodology and compositions are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 581 001 filed on Jun. 17 2004 entitled SSX 2 PEPTIDE ANALOGS and to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 580 962 filed on Jun. 17 2004 entitled NY ESO PEPTIDE ANALOGS each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As an example without being limited thereto each reference is incorporated by reference for what it teaches about class I MHC restricted epitopes analogs the design of analogs uses of epitopes and analogs methods of using and making epitopes and the design and use of nucleic acid vectors for their expression. Other applications that are expressly incorporated herein by reference are U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 156 253 Publication No. 20060063913 filed on Jun. 17 2005 entitled SSX 2 PEPTIDE ANALOGS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 155 929 filed on Jun. 17 2005 entitled NY ESO 1 PEPTIDE ANALOGS Publication No. 20060094661 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 321 967 filed on Dec. 29 2005 entitled METHODS TO TRIGGER MAINTAIN AND MANIPULATE IMMUNE RESPONSES BY TARGETED ADMINISTRATION OF BIOLOGICAL RESPONSE MODIFIERS INTO LYMPHOID ORGANS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 323 572 filed on Dec. 29 2005 entitled METHODS TO ELICIT ENHANCE AND SUSTAIN IMMUNE REPONSES AGAINST MCH CLASS I RESTRICTED EPITOPES FOR PROPHYLACTIC OR THERAPEUTIC PURPOSES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 323 520 tiled Dec. 29 2005 entitled METHODS TO BYPASS CD4CELLS IN THE INDUCTION OF AN IMMUNE RESPONSE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 323 049 filed Dec. 29 2005 entitled COMBINATION OF TUMOR ASSOCIATED ANTIGENS IN COMPOSITIONS FOR VARIOUS TYPES OF CANCERS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 323 964 filed Dec. 29 2005 entitled COMBINATIONS OF TUMOR ASSOCIATED ANTIGENS IN DIAGNOSTICS FOR VARIOUS TYPES OF CANCERS U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 691 889 filed on Jun. 17 2005 entitled EPITOPE ANALOGS. 

The following examples are included to demonstrate preferred embodiments of the invention in designing plasmids containing immunogenic epitopes of PSMA and PRAME that are capable of eliciting a bivalent immune response. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the methodology disclosed in the examples which follow represent methodologies discovered by the inventors to function well in the practice of the invention and thus can be considered to constitute preferred modes for its practice. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The plasmids P2 and R2 also referred to as pCTLR2 contain elements from PSMA expressed on the neovasculature of a wide range of carcinomas or by prostate carcinoma cells and PRAME expressed by cancerous cells respectively . Each insert encompasses a fragment of the antigen s sequence along with multiple copies of an epitope expressed by target cells and addressable via immune mediated attack. Flanking these epitopes are sequences encoding amino acids known to facilitate the processing and generation of epitope peptides in the cellular compartments. In addition plasmid RP5 encompasses elements from both P2 and R2 with the expressed immunogens adjoined to each other.

The R2 plasmid was constructed following the plasmid construction protocol discussed above and as disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 691 889 filed on Jun. 17 2005 entitled EPITOPE ANALOGS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 455 278 entitled PRAME EPITOPE ANALOGS incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. R2 also referred to as pCTLR2 is a recombinant DNA plasmid vaccine which encodes one polypeptide with an HLA A2 specific CTL epitope from PRAME SLLQHLIGL SEQ ID NO 5 amino acid residues 425 433 and an epitope cluster region of PRAME amino acids 422 509 SEQ ID NO 21 . In constructing this plasmid the DNA sequence encoding the polypeptide in the plasmid is placed under the control of promoter enhancer sequence from cytomegalovirus CMVp which allows efficient transcription of messenger for the polypeptide upon uptake by antigen presenting cells. A bovine growth hormone polyadenylation signal BGH polyA at the 3 end of the encoding sequence provides signal for polyadenylation of the messenger to increase its stability as well as translocation out of nucleus into the cytoplasm. To facilitate plasmid transport into the nucleus a nuclear import sequence NIS from Simian virus 40 has been inserted in the plasmid backbone. One copy of CpG immunostimulatory motif is engineered into the plasmid to further boost immune responses. Additionally two prokaryotic genetic elements in the plasmid are responsible for amplification in the kanamycin resistance gene Kan R and the pMB bacterial origin of replication.

The amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 10 of the encoded polypeptide of R2 pCTLR2 is 150 amino acid residues in length as shown below 

Amino acid residues 2 to 89 correspond to an epitope cluster region representing PRAME SEQ ID NO 21 . Within this epitope cluster region a number of potential HLA A2 specific CTL epitopes have been found using a variety of epitope prediction algorithms. Amino acid residues 90 150 are an epitope liberation synchrotope sequence with four embedded copies of the PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 CTL epitope boldface . Flanking the defined PRAME CTL epitope are short amino acid sequences that have been shown to play an important role in the processing of the PRAME CTL epitope. In addition the amino acid sequence ISPEKEEQYIA SEQ ID NO 28 corresponding to PRAME amino acid 276 286 in italics is engineered into this string of beads region to facilitate the antibody based detection of expression of encoded polypeptide.

A study was conducted to assess whether the strategy of engineering elements from different antigens into the same expression vector creates a dominant subdominant hierarchy amongst those elements.

Four groups of HHD transgenic mice were immunized with plasmids P2 R2 RP5 or a mixture of P2 and R2 plasmids by direct inoculation into the inguinal lymph nodes of 25 g plasmid in 25 l of PBS to each lymph node at day 1 4 15 and 18. Ten days after the boost splenocytes were stimulated ex vivo with PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 or PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 peptide and tested against Cr labeled peptide coated T2 cells at various effector to target cell ratios E T ratio .

Briefly target cells expressing antigen on their surface were labeled with a radioactive isotope of chromium Cr . Splenocytes were then mixed with the target cell and incubated for several hours. After incubation supernatants were harvested and the cytolytic activity was measured in triplicate samples using a gamma counter. Lysis of antigen expressing cells releases Cr into the medium. Cell specific lysis is calculated by comparing lysis i.e. chromium release of target cells expressing the antigen s of interest or control antigen s in the presence or absence of effector cells and is usually expressed as the specific lysis.

The corrected percent lysis was calculated for each concentration of effector cells using the mean cpm for each replicate of wells . Percent specific lysis was calculated using the following formula Percent release 100 Experimental release spontaneous release Maximum release spontaneous release . Data are presented as follows the x axis shows the effector to target ratio the y axis shows the corresponding percentage specific lysis. Results are expressed as specific cytotoxicity the plasmid R2 is also referred to a CTLR2 .

The results show that P2 and R2 separately elicit significant cytotoxic immune responses. However when the immunogens of P2 and R2 are integrated within the RP5 plasmid immunity against the PRAME epitope is preserved while response to PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 epitope is eclipsed. This indicates that from an immunological standpoint a hierarchy is established between these two epitopes. Admixing P2 and R2 plasmids restores bivalent immunity.

To design expression vectors that result in a more balanced immunity against both PRAME and PSMA epitopes dominant and subdominant in the context of RP5 a set of immunogens was designed and incorporated within the same phasmid backbone by employing various combinations of the three following methods 

The plasmids designed as described in Example 3 above were tested to determine their ability to prime a bivalent immune response against the PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 and PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 tumor associated antigens.

Six groups of HHD transgenic mice n 8 group were immunized with plasmids RP8 RP9 RP10 RP11 RP12 or RP13 carrying inserts depicted in by direct inoculation into the inguinal lymph nodes of 25 g in 25 l of PBS to each lymph node on day 1 and 4. Seven days after the last plasmid injection on day 11 all of the immunized animals were sacrificed including five naive controls. ELISPOT analysis was conducted by measuring the frequency of IFN producing spot forming colonies SFC as described below.

Briefly spleens were isolated on day 11 from euthanized animals and the mononuclear cells after density centrifugation Lympholyte Mammal Cedarlane Labs Burlington N.C. were resuspended in HL 1 medium. Splenocytes 5 10or 2.5 10cells per well were incubated with 10 g of PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 or PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 natural peptide in triplicate wells of a 96 well filter membrane plates Multi screen IP membrane 96 well plate Millipore Mass. . Samples were incubated for 42 hours at 37 C. with 5 COand 100 humidity prior to development. Mouse IFN coating antibody IFN antibody pair U CyTech Biosciences The Netherlands was used as a coating reagent prior to incubation with splenocytes followed by the accompanied biotinylated detection antibody. GABA conjugate and proprietary substrates from U CyTech Biosciences were used for IFN spot development. The CTL response in immunized animals was measured 24 hours after development on the AID International plate reader using ELISpot Reader software version 3.2.3 calibrated for IFN spot analysis.

The results depicted in show the average IFN spot count for each experimental group. The data are presented as the frequency of IFN spots representing a colony of IFN secreting cells per treatment as the average of individual animal responses the standard deviation Std . Data generated from splenocytes isolated from immunized or naive mice and stimulated with the PSMAnative peptide indicated that RP12 induced the strongest immunity to the PSMAantigen 55.8 1.6 INF spots as compared to the naive control 12.8 2.4 IFN spots or the other treatment groups. This represented a 5 fold enhanced PSMA immune response with the RP12 plasmid.

In addition data generated from splenocytes isolated from immunized or naive mice and stimulated with the PRAMEnative peptide also demonstrated that animals immunized with RP12 showed the strongest immune response to the PRAMEantigen 234.5 3.7 IFN spots as compared to the naive controls 8.5 2.8 IFN spots or the other treatment groups. This represented a greater than 20 fold increased PRAME response with the RP12 plasmid.

Overall the results depicted in show induction of a strong bivalent immunity against both PRAME and PSMA epitopes by the plasmid RP12. Some bivalent immunity against both PRAME and PSMA epitopes was observed with RP9 and to a lesser extent RP13 RP10 RP11 and RP8 all having a more potent representation of the PSMA epitope relative to PRAME epitope as compared to the plasmid RP5 . This observation is apparently due in part to use of the I297V analogue of PSMA.

Based on the comparison in Example of 4 of the six plasmids RP8 RP9 RP10 RP11 RP12 and RP13 RP12 was selected for further analysis as it was the only plasmid that primed a robust bivalent immune response against both PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 and PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 .

Two representative HHD transgenic mice were immunized with RP12 plasmid carrying an insert depicted in by direct inoculation into the inguinal lymph nodes of 25 g in 25 l of PBS to each lymph node at day 1 4 15 and 18. Ten days after the last plasmid injection the frequency of PRAME and PSMA epitope specific CD8T cells was measured by tetramer staining of peripheral blood mononuclear cells and co staining for CD8 expression.

Briefly mononuclear cells were isolated from peripheral blood after density centrifugation Lympholyte Mammal Cedarlane Labs and stained with HLA A 0201 PRAME MHC tetramer Beckman Coulter T02001 and HLA A 0201 PSMA MHC tetramer Beckman Coulter T02001 . These cells were then co stained using FITC conjugated rat anti mouse CD8a Ly 2 monoclonal antibody BD Biosciences 553031 . Data were collected using a BD FACS Calibur flow cytometer and analyzed using Cellquest software by gating on the lymphocyte population and calculating the percent of tetramer positive cells within the CD8population.

The results depicted in show that following intranodal plasmid immunization the RP12 plasmid elicited dual immunity and the frequency of PRAMEspecific T cells was several fold higher than that of T cells specific for the PSMA subdominant epitope

To determine whether immunization with the plasmids RP12 and RP8 could induce a bivalent response against the tumor associated antigens Prameand PSMA following peptide boost with the PSMAI297V SEQ ID NO 7 analogue a tetramer analysis of immunized animals was conducted.

HHD transgenic mice were immunized with RP8 or RP12 plasmids carrying inserts depicted in by direct inoculation into the inguinal lymph nodes of 100 g in 25 l of PBS to each lymph node at day 1 4 15 and 18. On days 29 and 32 the mice were boosted with 25 g of PSMApeptide analogue I297V . One day before initiation of peptide boost and ten days after the completion of plasmid boost the frequency of PRAME and PSMA epitope specific T cells was measured by tetramer staining as described above and compared to tetramer results seven days following the last peptide boost.

The results shown in as mean SEM of specific CD8T cell frequency showed that RP12 plasmid elicits a slightly higher PSMA specific immunity than RP8 prior to peptide boost. In addition in both the case of RP12 and RP8 the immunity against PRAME was found to be dominant prior to peptide boost. However after boost with the PSMA subdominant epitope the immune response against PRAME and PSMA displayed a more balanced profile particularly in the case of RP12 indicating the benefit of strategies to elicit equilibrated immune responses against epitopes of different immune hierarchy.

It was examined whether immunization with the plasmids RP12 and RP8 could induce a bivalent response against the PRAME SEQ ID NO 5 and PSMA SEQ ID NO 6 epitopes those tumor associated antigens following a first peptide boost with the PSMAI297V SEQ ID NO 7 analogue and a second boosting with PRAMEL426Nva L433Nle SEQ ID NO 30 peptide analogue.

Mice were immunized with 4 injections of the RP8 or RP12 plasmid 4 mg ml by direct inoculation into the inguinal lymph nodes at day 1 4 15 and 18. On days 29 and 32 the mice were boosted with PSMAI297V peptide analogue 0.5 mg ml followed by a second boost on day 42 and 59 with PrameL426Nva L433Nle peptide analogue at 0.5 mg ml and 0.05 mg ml respectively. Mice were sacrificed and an ELISPOT analysis was conducted as follows.

Briefly spleens were isolated ten days following the last PrameL426Nva L433Nle peptide injection from euthanized animals and the mononuclear cells after density centrifugation Lympholyte Mammal Cedarlane Labs Burlington N.C. were resuspended in HL 1 medium. Splenocytes 2 10cells per well were incubated with 10 g of PSMAor PRAME natural peptide in triplicate wells of a 96 well filter membrane plates Multi screen IP membrane 96 well plate Millipore Mass. . Samples were incubated for 72 hours at 37 C. with 5 COand 100 humidity prior to development. Mouse IFN coating antibody IFN antibody pair U CyTech Biosciences The Netherlands was used as a coating reagent prior to incubation with splenocytes followed by the accompanied biotinylated detection antibody. GABA conjugate and various substrates from U CyTech Biosciences were used for IFN spot development. The CTL response in immunized animals was measured 24 hours after development on the AID International plate reader using ELISpot Reader software version 3.2.3 calibrated for IFN spot analysis.

The results show that RP12 plasmid elicits a higher PSMA specific immunity than RP8 at all doses tested. For both the RP12 and RP8 plasmids the immunity against PRAME was found to be dominant at all doses tested. Also the RP12 plasmid showed a strong balanced immune response against PRAME and PSMA following boost with the PSMA and PRAME epitopes.

