---

title: Controls and indicators with on-screen cognitive aids
abstract: The invention relates to an applet for a mobile computing device, comprising an element to detect user input and perform appropriate associated actions, and to provide a cognitive aid for users of the mobile computing device. The invention also relates to a method for controlling operation of a mobile computing device, comprising detecting user input and performing appropriate associated actions and providing a cognitive aid for users of the mobile computing device. The invention further relates to a cognitive aid for a mobile computing device having a display screen, the cognitive aid being displayed on the display screen and including an on-screen and/or an audio tip, and being associated with an input vehicle of the mobile computing device. The cognitive aid provides relevant information to the user regarding the input vehicle. The invention still further relates to a method for assisting users of a mobile computing device having a display screen. The method comprises providing a vehicle for user input to the mobile computing device and providing a cognitive aid on the display screen, the cognitive aid being associated with the user input vehicle. The cognitive aid provides relevant information to the user regarding the user input vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08739035&OS=08739035&RS=08739035
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08739035
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061011
---
The embodiments of the invention relate to a mobile computing device with integrated peripheral that may be used for example in a clinical or hospital environment for monitoring the welfare of a patient. Illustrative of mobile computing devices according to the present invention are tablet style personal computers designed to communicate wirelessly with one or more peripherals while being convenient to hold and operate and resistant to penetration by fluids. The present invention more particularly relates to controls and indicators with on screen cognitive aids for use with a mobile computing device.

A class of personal computers that is smaller than the typical desktop or laptop devices is known in the art as tablet personal computers or tablet PCs. Such computing devices are generally known for use as personal digital assistants and as specialized mobile computers. Tablet PC s typically offer the advantage of a small form factor that is easy for the user to carry.

The systems of known tablet PCs employ a variety of methods for mapping to buttons. Known methods for mapping to buttons in system implementations can differ from model to model and from one OEM ODM to another. Although a small number of such features have been standardized by mapping methods such as for example ACPI most are not standardized at all.

This requires that a new ACPI device driver be written every time requiring the driver writer to coordinate with the BIOS developer to ensure that they agree on the names of the ACPI control methods and any parameters they might have.

As used in the specification and claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example the term an array may include a plurality of arrays unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Further Table 1 below lists various acronyms and terms of art used herein.

In one embodiment the invention relates to an applet for a mobile computing device comprising an element to detect user input and perform appropriate associated actions and to provide a cognitive aid for users of the mobile computing device. The element utilizes a single device driver to detect and perform appropriate actions associated with the user input. The device driver can be an ACPI to HID mapper driver. User input can be via button presses. The cognitive aid can comprise an on screen tip and or an audio tip. An on screen tip can be provided for each button. A configuration file can define details of user input implementation and the details are read by the applet.

The invention also relates to a method for controlling operation of a mobile computing device comprising detecting user input and performing appropriate associated actions and providing a cognitive aid for users of the mobile computing device.

The invention further relates to a cognitive aid for a mobile computing device having a display screen the cognitive aid being displayed on the display screen and being associated with an input vehicle of the mobile computing device that is connected to an embedded controller. The cognitive aid provides relevant information to the user regarding the input vehicle via on screen tips and or audio tips.

The invention still further relates to a method for assisting users of a mobile computing device having a display screen. The method comprises providing a vehicle for user input to the mobile computing device and providing a cognitive aid on the display screen the cognitive aid being associated with the user input vehicle. The cognitive aid provides relevant information to the user regarding the user input vehicle.

The invention also relates to a mobile computing device having an element with standardized nomenclature for controlling HID class buttons. The standardized nomenclature is adapted to allow a single device driver to control all types of buttons and map them to HID class button events and to be re usable for a variety of mobile computing device implementations. The device driver can be an ACPI to HID mapper driver. A configuration file can define details of HID class button implementation which are used to control the ACPI to HID mapper driver without changing source code for the ACPI to HID mapper driver.

The invention further relates to an applet for a mobile computing device having a user input vehicle comprising an element adapted to provide an end user management graphical user interface and to gain knowledge about the user input vehicle by reading a configuration file and communicating via a device driver without changing source code for the device driver or the applet. The mobile computing device can be configured for a variety of sites having different application requirements. The user input vehicle can be configurable for a site specific application.

An illustrative embodiment of the computer hardware component of a mobile computing device according to the present invention is shown in . For exemplary purposes the below discussion of the invention is embodied in a tablet PC. As shown the tablet PC motherboard includes a CPU. In this embodiment the illustrative CPU is a 478 ball Dothan ULV processor in a Micro FCBGA package. The CPU may be soldered down to the motherboard or it may be socketed to facilitate the replacement of defective units to permit the end user to upgrade the processor etc. The selected CPU runs nominally at 1.2 GHz in High Frequency mode and at 600 MHz in Low Frequency mode. Other CPUs may be used although size heat dissipation and power requirements may change in other parts of the system. Those skilled in the art will recognize and be able to adapt hardware aspects that must be accommodated for other processors.

Faster processors for example may be larger in size and generate more heat while consuming more power and smaller processors may require less power and generate less heat that must be removed from the system. The selected CPU can also support enhanced technologies for voltage and frequency scaling.

The system memory may be determined based on the intended application of the tablet PC through the use of commercially available memory modules. The illustrative embodiment of may contain a single channel 400 MHz DDR2 capable SODIMM socket. A default configuration employing one DRAM module of 1 GB size can accommodate a wide variety of applications although larger and smaller DRAM modules are available and can be installed at the time of manufacturing. In applications where the memory is not hard wired to the motherboard and the tablet PC chassis permits opening by the user the user or technician may be provided with the ability to change memory modules to replace defective units or increase memory capacity.

A variety of commercially available system clocks may be employed as well. An exemplary embodiment of the present invention may employ a CK 410M Clock Synthesizer.

In communication with the processor via the motherboard s front side bus might be the GMCH or North Bridge as it is commonly referred to in the art. The GMCH memory and graphics controller functions can be provided by an Alviso SFF graphics memory controller hub model 915GMS and packaged in an 840 ball 27 mm 27 mm Micro FCBGA package and is usually soldered to the motherboard. It may in some instances be useful to provide the GMCH in a socketed configuration if convenient substitution of the unit is desirable.

Video capability may be provided via a TFT LCD or other flat panel display that can be incorporated into the chassis of the device. In the present embodiment only a single display is required thus the analog TV Out and digital SDVO outputs can be disabled on the graphics controller. Only the LVDS interface to an LCD panel or other is necessary. Other outputs may be enabled and external ports may be provided with adequate safeguards taken to avoid increasing the risk of fluid incursion into the chassis in instances where external video is desirable.

The ICH also referred to as the South Bridge provides I O capabilities. In one embodiment of the present tablet these services are provided by the ICH6 M I O controller hub ICH . This ICH may provide an x2 DMI interface to the North Bridge a PCI Bus which can be routed to one or more MiniPCI card connectors a PCI Express PCIe Bus which may be routed to one or more MiniCard card connectors a PATA interface for providing a data path to a hard disk drive and a SATA interface. The SATA interface may or may not be used depending on the number and types of data storage units required. Other storage device interfaces may be used as well if a different ICH is selected for use in the tablet.

The ICH can also provide USB ports. The ICH6 M ICH provides Eight 8 USB ports for devices such as cameras barcode readers Bluetooth wireless communications controllers docking connectors etc. Other ICHs may provide more or less depending on the needs of the system and the anticipated number of USB peripherals. As well the ICH should provide an audio bus to provide the device with sound capability. The ICH of this illustrative embodiment is configurable for AC97 or Azalia High Definition Audio.

The ICH can also provide a LPC Low Pin Count Bus. The LPC bus may connect to the firmware hub i.e. the Flash EEPROM storing the BIOS code and support the use of a KSC or embedded controller in this embodiment a Hitachi H 8 Keyboard System Controller . The LPC may also provide a communications path to a Super I O chip with two RS 232C serial ports and a TPM Trusted Platform Module chip that provides security key storage. Variations between available ICHs may permit different hardware to be connected to the system via the ICH to accommodate varying hardware configurations.

The system may also employ thermal sensors to permit monitoring of thermal conditions within the chassis and for various components on the motherboard. Most modern CPU s such as the one employed in the exemplary embodiment include an on die thermal sensor. Further an external thermal diode positioned very near the CPU package can be connected to a remote thermal sensor. The remote thermal sensor s SMBus may interface with the KSC s SMBus and also with the processor s Critical Thermal pin. When the Critical Thermal pin is driven the processor is designed to perform an emergency shutdown. Typically when such a shutdown occurs the operating system state will not be saved. Prior to that event the current temperature can be read via the KSC and the KSC may also be programmed to provide a warning interrupt when a temperature threshold also called a thermal trip point is crossed. Additional sensors may be employed to increase the level of monitoring or for system design debugging purposes.

System power may be provided by an internal system battery pack or by mounting in a dock which provides an external connection to an AC DC converter brick . The battery pack can be charged through an on board charger using for example a battery charger controller controlled by the KSC. The charger may then be used to charge and control the batteries and provide system regulation of 12.6 VDC when external power is provided. When only battery power is available the voltage may typically range from a maximum of about 12.6 VDC fully charged down to a minimum of about 9.0 VDC at discharge cut off . Different power supply schemes of course may result in variations of the minimum and maximum voltages.

The power from the two paths described above is typically input to most of the on board voltage regulator circuits to provide power to all system components. The input voltage may be converted by various commercially available components to provide a variety of rail voltages. In the present embodiment a 4 in 1 controller e.g. a TPS5130 may be employed to develop the system voltage rails including at least 5.0V 3.3V 2.5V and 1.5V ALWAYS . Other voltage rails may be developed and supplied to peripherals and system hardware by employing appropriate voltage controllers.

Typically chipset and memory subsystems require separate regulation to provide 1.8V 0.9V and 1.05V. This power may be provided by two dual regulator circuits with one providing the memory supply and the other the VCCP and GMCH core power.

Various always power rails may be switched using FETs Field Effect Transistors to provide switched rails when system S states require power to be controlled on or off at various times.

According to the present illustrative embodiment six 6 Lithium prismatic cells such as the Panasonic CGA103450A are bundled into a single battery pack in a 3S2P geometry. A charging controller board may also be included in this package. Each cell typically provides 1950 mAh of storage nominally at 3.7 VDC for a total pack capacity of 3900 mAh at 11.1 VDC.

At an average and continuous system consumption rate for example about 12 W a battery life of approximately 3 hours on a single charge may be anticipated. When the system is in suspend or hibernate modes battery life will be extended. During times of heavy use complex computation battery life will shorten.

The dock may also contain a charging cavity for a second battery which can preferably be warm swapped exchanged without powering down the system with a discharged battery while the tablet PC is stationed in the dock and receiving A C power.

An A C power brick typically provides electrical service to the dock. The A C power brick may be one such as the Powertron Electronics Corporation model F10653 A. This pack is designed to connect to the wall source power on one end and the docking cradle on the other end. Such a brick may accept input at 110 VAC to 240 VAC from 47 Hz to 63 Hz so should be usable worldwide assuming the correct physical adaptor plug is used. Typically units manufactured for the North American market might be supplied with a 3 prong grounded plug. Other plugs of course can be used to accommodate power outlet configurations used elsewhere in the world.

Illustratively the power brick may provide output at 19 VDC 5 at a maximum of about 3.42 A and have a barrel type plug with positive voltage on tip and ground on ring . Other styles of power bricks to provide for other voltage requirements lower voltage tolerances and higher or lower anticipated current requirements are known in the art.

An embodiment of the tablet PC is illustrated in . As shown the tablet PC may have a thin and light design targeted to the healthcare vertical market segment and tailored to predicted usage models primarily by nurses and secondarily by doctors. Key system design features might include a rugged rounded professional appearance and a sealed chassis resistant to bio fluids and germ growth. The chassis should be constructed in a manner permitting it to withstand cleaning using anti bacterial reagents. It is also desirable to provide an ergonomic layout with carry handle and peripheral positioning.

When used to provide a tablet style PC for use in hospitals or a clinical environment the chassis may be designed to provide for the integration of technological features such as a stethoscope vital signs monitoring equiment temperature blood pressure etc. or other peripherals desired for medical professionals. In one embodiment these devices communicate wirelessly with the tablet PC via Bluetooth 802.11 wireless protocol or other wireless data transmission protocol.

The chassis may comprise the following components illustrated in a front plate frame an electronic assembly for the LCD or other display screen a digitizer not shown a motherboard LCD MB assembly and daughter cards not shown . A back plate may include a handle assembly and a heat spreader sink. It may be desirable to provide a back plate that includes a flat plate comprised of a metal that dissipates heat quickly such as magnesium titanium aluminum copper etc. The heat spreader plate may as well be in physical contact with motherboard components that require heat dissipation such as the CPU although such contact may be made via substances such as thermal grease or intermediate layers of heat conductive metal. This permits the back plate of the tablet PC to act as a heat sink thereby avoiding the need for internal fans or other means for heat removal that may compromise the unit s ability to resist penetration by fluids moisture and other contaminants.

In the illustrative embodiment the battery pack may incorporate a cap that provides a mating seal to the handle assembly. A stethoscope or other peripheral may be formed to insert into a void or recessed cavity in the acrylic surface and rest in a cavity sculpted or otherwise formed in the frame. The construction materials of course are merely presented for purposes of illustration those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of metals and plastics may be substituted for any of the chassis components provided that issues with magnetic and electrical shielding for the components and various antennae are accounted for.

To provide a chassis that is well sealed to be water fluid resistant and resistant to cleaning with industrial chemical solvents or other materials the chassis components may be assembled with interposing rubber o ring gaskets or similar gaskets able to provide fluid resistance for each of the seams where chassis components meet.

All seams in a system designed to be fluid resistant should generally be gasketed to prevent fluid penetration into the system. A main gasket that seals the top and bottom subassemblies would typically be provided. This gasket also integrates the hard buttons e.g. power camera shutter barcode RFID scanner etc. to provide sealed button actuation where buttons or a button pad are employed.

In an embodiment of the invention the battery cap contains a rubber diaphragm that forms a compression seal against the handle area. The fasteners preferably use o rings or silicon for sealed assembly.

In order to achieve a high degree of thermal performance the primary components may be cooled by the integrated chassis heatsink. For example the chassis may be made of injection molded magnesium frame or other suitable highly heat conductive material. The frame may then be coupled directly to the CPU GMCH and ICH or indirectly via thermal grease or intermediate layers of heat conductive material.

A thermal shield may be implemented over the top of the chassis heatsink to limit the heat transfer rate from the heatsink to the user. In a preferred embodiment of the invention no fans or system vents are provided which maintains sealability of the system.

According to the structure describe above the system is passively cooled. Heat is transferred out of the system via conduction natural convection and radiation. An insulating shield may be applied to the back of the display screen for example an LCD to maintain its required ambient temperature and provide a more uniform temperature profile across the surface of the display.

As previously mentioned the device will ordinarily include a display screen such as an LCD TFT or other light weight portable display. The illustrative system uses an AND Displays 10.4 inch color TFT LCD Module model ANDpSi104EA5S HB. This display supports XGA 1024 H 768 V screen resolution and 262 K RGB 6 bits data driver or 16.7M RGB 8 bits data driver color depths. The input signals are LVDS interface compatible and it uses a single side firing CCFL backlight.

Power consumption is 3.7 W typical using standard SMPTE test pattern when running at full intensity of 180 nits cd m2 . Power consumption at 60 nits is 2.87 W. The LCD display a digitizer and motherboard may be mated as a single assembly and shock mounted to the chassis. The system may also include a backlight inverter see .

An embodiment of the system includes a DB 15 connector for VGA external display connection but will ordinarily be unused as VGA connectors are not sealable. The connector is typically not stuffed on motherboards that are assembled into a chassis but users requiring external video may desire a tablet PC that offers this feature.

The system may also incorporate a digitizer see . In the illustrative embodiment the digitizer is a Wacom SU 001 A 10.4 diagonal electromagnetic inductive digitizer that underlaps the LCD. This digitizer has a true resolution accuracy of 0.001 mm 2540 dots inch and may report up to 133 points second during stylus motion.

The system may also be equipped with a stylus to permit data entry directly into the device via the digitizer. In the illustrative embodiment the stylus is passive. A suitable stylus device includes the Wacom Penabled Tablet PC Slim Pen model MP200 00 that is 5.5 mm in diameter. The pen can report 256 different levels of pressure when the stylus is pressed against the acrylic LCD protector. The stylus can be sensed at distances between 5 mm and 14 mm away from the digitizer board this includes the thickness of the LCD panel air gap and a protective acrylic cover . The system may accommodate the stylus in a recessed caddy area as shown in .

Tablet PC also refers to a computer such as a personal computer or a mobile computing device incorporating various convenient and intuitive aspects of pencil and paper into a user s interaction with the computer. The term computer may include at least one central processing unit or CPU processor connected to a host bus. The CPU may be any of various types including an x86 processor e.g. a Pentium class a PowerPC processor a CPU from the SPARC family of RISC processors as well as others. The computer system may also include various memory mediums typically including RAM and referred to as main memory. The main memory may store one or more programs implementing the present invention. The main memory may also store operating system software as well as other software for operation of the computer system. The term mobile computing device as used herein means any computing device intended to move location while maintaining functionality. Mobile computing devices can include for example laptop computers sub notebooks personal digital assistants portable data terminals tablet PCs and even smartphones.

To facilitate data and software storage the system may contain at least one mass storage device such as an integrated hard disk drive HDD . Illustratively the HDD may be a Toshiba 20 Gigabyte 1.8 inch diameter drive model MK2008GAL. This HDD uses PATA as the interface to the baseboard. There is typically provided a PATA connector directly on the on the baseboard that may be used for a ribbon cable connection to the CE style connector on the HDD. This drive is 5.0 mm thick making it suitable for use in a portable device such as a tablet PC.

The illustrative embodiment of the tablet PC may include a wireless LAN subsystem. This may consist of a MiniPCI connector on the motherboard with a Wi Fi card installed. The commercially available Intel PRO Wireless 2915 ABG is suitable for use in the illustrative embodiment. It supports the IEEE industry standards 802.11 a b and g.

Certain peripheral devices may be connected to the tablet PC via wireless LAN or Bluetooth technology. The present device may therefore also incorporate a Bluetooth controller such as the Taiyo Yuden EYSFCCSXX module to provide Bluetooth capability for the system. This device incorporates the CSR Cambridge Silicon Radio Bluecore 4 radio chip operating in the 2.4 GHz band. The module implements Bluetooth 2.0 specifications and includes AFH advanced frequency hopping and EDR enhanced data rate functions. The module interfaces to the system using one of the USB ports available via the ICH.

The Taiyo Yuden EYSFCCSXX module also supports WiFi coexistence Phase 2 capability. This reduces the interference between the Bluetooth and the WiFi radios when they are operating simultaneously. The two modules have a communication channel that they use to inform one another about when they are transmitting and what WiFi channel is being used. The Bluetooth module attempts to choose a different channel in the 2.4 GHz band which does not conflict with the WiFi channel in use determined by access point association .

The WMTS subsystem may also include a dual stuffing option connector layout on the motherboard. The motherboard therefore may contain contacts pads for both MiniPCI and MiniCard aka Mini PCI Express socket connectors. These pads are designed to use substantially the same physical volume inside the system.

An OEM employing this feature would determine at manufacturing time which connector to solder to the motherboard since most compact chassis layouts will permit only one can be used at a time. Then the OEM may insert the appropriate form factor WMTS card into the system before sealing the chassis.

In instances where the tablet PC user will benefit from having an RFID reader incorporated into the device a suitable hardware solution may include the Texas Instruments 7961 RFID reader chip and companion MSP430 microcontroller. This device may be connected via an RS 232 interface at TTL levels i.e. 5 VDC and Ground vs. the more conventional 12 VDC and 12 VDC to the COM2 port of the Super IO. This T.I. chip supports RFID protocols ISO 15693 ISO 14443 and T.I. s Tag It .

The RFID reader is a relatively low power device and has a short reading range on the order of 4 to 5 centimeters. Its antenna should be positioned as far away from any metal as reasonably possible to read effectively. As a result the user should position the RFID tagged object near the antenna location for scanning.

An audio subsystem may be incorporated into the device to provide sound output. One suitable device is based on a Realtek ALC202 codec which is compliant with the AC 97 specifications. The system may also contain an internal power amplifier to more effectively drive the internal speaker. Exemplary of such amplifiers is the LM4960SQ. A single mono speaker a custom designed piezo electric transducer can provide rudimentary audio output. The transducer may be mounted to the back of the display screen protector in the area between the medical peripheral slot stethoscope and the handle cutout. If higher quality audio output is desired a Bluetooth headset may be used to avoid the need to add I O ports to the chassis. For that same reason the illustrative embodiment employs a microphone input via a Bluetooth headset when sound is desired.

In order to avoid increased risk of penetration by fluids and contaminants the tablet PC will generally not include externally accessible audio I O jacks as such jacks would create difficulties in maintaining the sealed nature of the system. If for any reason the end user requires external audio jacking a USB audio device e.g. Creative SoundBlaster Audigy 2 NX may be installed into one of the free USB ports in the dock.

The system integrates a number of buttons and indicators the functions and features of which are illustrated in . Each button is assigned a button number which refers to the button ID assigned by the KSC. This number may be used by the KSC to report button presses to an ACPI to HID mapper driver. HID refers to Human Interface Device. This driver may then translate the button press into an HID code for further processing. The system may include soft buttons. A soft button is one managed by the Synaptics mobile touch module STM there is no tactile feedback from these capacitive buttons. A hard button is a physical momentary switch that includes tactile feedback. A virtual button does not have a user accessible physical existence it is only a software controllable abstraction of a GPIO signal that can be driven by the KSC.

HID class buttons are buttons reported in the form of HID input messages as described in specifications promulgated by the USB Implementer s Forum for example USB Serial Bus Specification Revision 2.0 27 Apr. 2000 USB Device Class Definition for Human Interface Devices HID version 1.11 27 Jun. 2001 USB HID Usage Tables version 1.12 21 Jan. 2005.

The STM refers to the Synaptics mobile touch module a commercially available product which may be used in accordance with the illustrative embodiment of the invention. Other button handling solutions will be recognized by those skilled in the art and are contemplated by the present invention. The STM may contain both capacitive buttons and LEDs integrated into a single package. The STM interfaces to the KSC using a MEP protocol defined by the manufacturer.

The illustrative device will generally include a power button that is used to turn the system on and off and also to put a running system into sleep or hibernate modes per Windows Control Panel configuration settings when a Windows O S is used . The KSC monitors the user press of a physical button and sends onward the appropriate signal to the power and voltage regulation circuitry. In addition the KSC monitors the CPU state as represented by status pins on the ICH and may reflect the appropriate status condition on a power LED.

The applet may respond to the HID code by instructing the KSC to power up the camera and RFID readers turn on the white illumination LED and then via USB instruct the camera to grab image frames for barcode analysis and decoding. Simultaneously via an RS 232 interface the RFID reader may be instructed to begin searching for nearby RFID tags. When either one of the barcode decode or RFID scanning functions returns a successful result the applet may instruct the KSC to turn off the illumination LED power down the camera and the RFID reader. As used herein applet generally refers to a software component that runs in the context of another program such as a web browser or another defined framework. An applet usually performs a narrow function that has no independent use.

Synaptics Touch Module STM soft buttons may be used for various system management functions. The STM can contain an embedded microcontroller that interfaces to the KSC using a MEP Modular Embedded Protocol interface. When the STM reports a button press to the KSC the KSC sends an SCI interrupt signal to the ACPI framework. This is delivered to the ACPI to HID mapper driver which translates it into the appropriate HID button code. An applet responds to the HID code by performing the appropriate function and in some cases instructing the KSC to turn on or off specific LEDs by forwarding the command to the STM. In one embodiment of the invention wireless activity status LEDs for either or both WiFi and Bluetooth are driven to the STM directly by the wireless card s rather than via the KSC. A performance advantage may be gained in this manner.

For security a device such as the Infineon SLB9635TT TPM may be used to store credentials securely on the computing device. This device is packaged in a 28 pin TSSOP package and connects to the ICH via the Low Pin Count LPC bus. It is compliant with TPM 1.2 specifications.

The tablet PC user may desire a dock for the tablet PC. The device may be inserted into the dock to recharge the batteries and to add additional functionality to the device via additional I O ports external graphics ports etc. An embodiment of the dock is illustrated in . The dock is preferably configured to house the tablet PC in a manner that allows it to stand upright and still have the screen be completely viewable. It might include battery charging contacts for the tablet as well as a charging cavity for a spare battery. LED indicators can be provided to communicate charging status.

The dock may contain a USB hub presently USB 2.0 is the most common solution . USB functionality may be implemented with a device such as the Philips ISP 1520 USB controller chip in an LQFP64 package. The hub chip has 1 upstream port goes to the docking connector and 4 downstream ports. Of the 4 downstream ports 3 of them are exposed as external USB type B sockets. The final downstream port connects to the Ethernet chip. The hub supports USB2.0 data transfer at high speed 480 Mb s and at legacy USB1.1 full speed 12 Mb s and low speed 1.5 Mb s rates.

The dock may also contain an Ethernet IEEE 802.3 interface. This might be implemented with the Asix AX88772LF chip in a LQFP128 package The Ethernet chip desirably contains both MAC and PHY in a single package and supports USB2.0 and 802.3 operation at 100 Mb s and 10 Mb s. The Ethernet interface may be available on the dock via an external RJ45 socket. A docking connector in the figures shown as a flush mounted injection molded port provides power and USB connectivity between the tablet PC and the dock. The dock will generally also include necessary A C power components and cabling.

An illustrative embodiment of the tablet PC includes at least one peripheral data acquisition device for use by healthcare professionals. Such a device might include a Bluetooth enabled stethoscope as shown in for use by a clinician to examine heart and lung sounds of patients. The stethoscope may include a rechargeable battery or non rechargeable battery and be capable of transmitting audio output directly to a headset worn by the user typically the headset will also be Bluetooth enabled . Alternatively the stethoscope may transmit to the tablet PC and the tablet PC retransmit the audio output to a headset worn by the user or play the sound via the tablet s internal audio system and speaker.

The stethoscope may include numerous buttons and indicators to permit the user to change the audio output device set the type of measurement being taken and perform basic functions such as turn the device on and off . The stethoscope may also transmit information to the tablet PC relating to battery level include audio filters to permit more accurate audio representation of a patient s heartbeat lung function etc. or include other functions desired by the healthcare professional.

Those skilled in the art will readily recognize how to implement low level software features such as the system BIOS. In the illustrative tablet PC however the BIOS may be configured to implement ACPI control methods for abstracted application control of buttons and LEDs that are managed by the KSC. Applications generally send HID messages which are processed by the ACPI to HID mapper driver which in turn invokes the ACPI methods in the BIOS. When a button is pressed the BIOS generates a notify event to the operating system. The driver will capture this event and call the BTNS method to obtain the details of the button press event.

Further the ACPI to HID mapper driver may provide a system independent way for application software to control and communicate with buttons and LEDs integrated into a computing device that are controlled by the Keyboard System Controller KSC . This driver may simultaneously exist as an HID class mini driver for interfacing to the Windows operating system and applications and an ACPI Driver for interfacing to the BIOS and the KSC .

On its top interface the ACPI to HID mapper driver communicates with the HID class driver to obtain HID LED setting messages output reports and to deliver HID button input messages input reports . The driver automatically configures itself by reading configuration information from a registry such as a Windows registry in instances where a Windows operating system is used as in the illustrative embodiment which might use the Windows XP Tablet Edition 2005 operating system in order to know the HID codes that it should pay attention to for LED settings and the HID codes that it should generate for button presses .

On its bottom interface the driver registers for ACPI Events generated from the BIOS plus KSC and invokes ACPI Control Methods to send commands to the BIOS plus KSC. The KSC also known as the EC actually connects to buttons and LEDs integrated into the system.

The BIOS may also implement ACPI control methods for reporting the temperature values of thermal sensors that are managed by the KSC or for reporting the power usage values of wattage sensors.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the illustrative tablet PC includes buttons providing various system functions while still maintaining its fluid resistant sealed design. The buttons facilitate user input. The buttons may be for example touch sensitive. In addition to the buttons array buttons and a GUI of a dashboard applet is provided as illustrated in . The dashboard applet may be for example a Systray applet that controls the operation of the device by detecting button presses performing the associated actions and changing the state of LEDs associated with the buttons as appropriate. The dashboard applet provides end user assistance in the form of on screen tool tips whose visibility can be exposed or hidden.

The applet becomes aware of any HID class buttons and LEDs because it interfaces with the HID class driver see . The HID class driver centralizes all HID class activity on the computer regardless of the originating driver e.g. ACPI to HID mapper driver USB keyboard driver Bluetooth keyboard driver for the activity. The applet then becomes aware of e.g. by reading the system registry the correct HID message formats and content necessary to communicate with all of the HID class buttons. The system registry would therefore contain all of the necessary HID message formats.

In an embodiment of the invention the buttons include a touch sensitive button array. The array may be located for example to the right of the chassis handle as shown in . Alternatively the array can be located along a bottom portion of the chassis not shown . The button array may further include an LED array that illuminates the buttons in accordance with the desired functionality of the buttons as described in more detail below. A user can manipulate the buttons from an exterior surface of the mobile computing device. As an alternative to buttons the present invention contemplates employing other suitable input vehicles such as switches touch sensitive transducers dials knobs sliders etc. As an alternative to LEDs the present invention contemplates utilizing liquid crystal displays and vacuum fluorescent displays. illustrates an embodiment with nine buttons having LED indicators although any suitable number of buttons and indicators may be employed. Not every button must have an associated LED. Indeed the present invention contemplates a device without LEDs.

In an embodiment of the invention the function of one or more of the buttons and LEDs can be tailored to the usage model of the vertical market segment. The device can therefore be optimized for the usage needs of end users such as medical practitioners in a hospital or clinical setting although one skilled in the art will appreciate that many variations may be practiced.

In an embodiment of the invention a printed circuit board for the button array is internally mounted and connected to the mobile computing device via an electrical bus interface. The illustrated embodiment employs a GPIO interface via the embedded controller or the KSC that emulates the interface for the bus of the printed circuit board. The embedded controller has the firmware for emulation and presents information from the printed circuit board and translates it to be ACPI compliant before being sent to the BIOS. Operating system has access to subroutines in the BIOS via an ACPI class driver. One skilled in the art will appreciate that various buses may be employed including but not limited to USB FireWire PS 2 PCI and PCI Express. This electrical bus interface allows three classes of operation between the software such as for example device drivers and or application programs and the hardware to 1 receive events when the physical buttons are pressed by the user 2 query determine the current state of the LED indicators 3 turn on or off the LED indicators accordingly 4 query determine a current state of the GPIOs and 5 turn on or off GPIO signals also called virtual buttons . The GPIOs may be used for various internal functions including for example enabling disabling radios power management and managing internal hardware devices such as cameras barcode readers wireless communications controllers docking connectors etc.

According to an embodiment of the invention dashboard applet cognitive aids are associated with the user input vehicles e.g. the buttons and indicators and preferable are tailored for the intended use of the tablet PC. The cognitive aids provide relative information to the user regarding the associated input vehicle. In an exemplary embodiment as shown in the following can be employed 

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the requirements of the dashboard applet include one or more of the following 

According to an embodiment of the invention the dashboard applet runs automatically when the user logs in. The touch sensitive button array and dashboard applet may additionally be responsible or provide assistance for camera capture barcode or RFID scanning wireless device pairing wireless network connection radio operation audio settings handwriting recognition and user authentication.

In the embodiment of having nine buttons with LED indicators the buttons may have functionality as set forth in the following table.

In an embodiment of the invention the appearance of the cognitive aids i.e. the on screen tips consists of two components 1 the application shows an icon in the system tray and allows the user to bring up associated menus for visibility of on screen tips e.g. hidden visible and expended locale selection e.g. English Spanish French about e.g. copyright and version information and exit to exit the dashboard applet and 2 on screen tips provide a GUI including an explanation of the touch sensitive button array and can appear in hidden visible and expanded views that take up different amounts of space on the screen. The tips preferably have an always on top default setting and can additionally be 50 transparent so that the underlying screen can still be seen. Additionally the tips may change to 0 transparent when the cursor moves over them. In the hidden view there are no tips on the screen. In the visible view for example a limited number of tips can be displayed. In an embodiment of the invention the tips are limited to the three configurable medical applications. In the expanded view for example the tips for all of the touch sensitive buttons can be displayed. It is to be understood that a wide variety of appearance attributes of the dashboard applet are contemplated by the present invention.

In an embodiment of the invention the appearance and other characteristics of the on screen tips are configured from the system registry.

An embodiment of the present invention includes a general purpose method for loading program subroutines such as an ACPI to HID mapper driver into an operating system such as Microsoft Windows Linux etc. for invoking ACPI control methods via the operating system and or application software running in the context of the operating system. The ACPI to HID mapper driver allows manipulation of hardware in an operating system and allows the behavior resulting from user input to be hardware independent. The ACPI to HID mapper driver configures itself via an external configuration file that provides system design specifics e.g. how many buttons and indicators and their characteristics and allows a single driver to be used or re used on multiple system designs with minimal or no change.

According to an embodiment of the invention the dashboard applet provides some behaviors to meet the needs of the system design based on the intended use of the tablet PC and also provides some end user cognitive aids for using the hardware. End user cognitive aids as used herein include any type of helpful information communicated to a user of the device. Behavior as used herein refers to what does or should occur when the user takes an action with respect to the mobile computing device such as pressing a button.

Dashboard applet behavior for the buttons and indicators is tailored as appropriate for the intended use of the tablet PC. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the device includes wireless communication radios such as Wi Fi and Bluetooth each having its own activity LED an RF Kill button and internal GPIO signals that control the RF Kill signal to the radios. In this exemplary embodiment the dashboard applet incorporates a software algorithm that will 1 sense when a user presses the RF Kill button 2 determine the current state of RF Kill operation i.e. asserted or not 3 toggle the state of RF Kill operation to its opposite as requested 4 when asserting the RF Kill state turning on the RF Kill GPIO signal to the wireless communication radio s and the RF Kill LED 5 when de asserting the RF Kill state turning off the RF Kill GPIO signal to the wireless communication radio s and the RF Kill LED. One skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of algorithms could be employed in response to a user button press stimulus.

The present invention provides a standardized nomenclature and method for using ACPI control methods for controlling buttons indicators and similar devices. A single standard ACPI device driver controls buttons indicators and similar devices and is re usable from one mobile computing device implementation to another. A configuration file can be used to define the details of a given mobile computing device button and indicator implementation and those details can be used to control an ACPI to HID mapper driver without changing source code for the ACPI to HID mapper driver or the applet. A control panel applet can an provide end user management GUI that gains knowledge about the specific buttons and indicators on a given mobile computing device by reading the configuration file and communicating via a single ACPI to HID mapper driver without changing source code for the ACPI to HID mapper driver or the applet. Gains knowledge as used herein refers to reading configuration settings stored in a configuration file e.g. the system registry .

A consistent naming and implementation scheme allows the system designs to be developed more rapidly. Often the most time consuming development item is the device driver. This approach allows the driver to be reused from design to design with only a configuration file change. BIOS and firmware development can be done faster because the interfaces are known in advance and don t need to be specified from scratch. Most of the focus can be applied to the dashboard applet that is one of the key touch points by the target users and will return the most value.

The following tables set forth exemplary HID codes associated LEDs functions text captions optional voice messages and algorithms for each button in the embodiment illustrated in .

The disclosed invention has numerous practical embodiments. The various embodiments are to inventions useful for those requiring a portable computing platform that is durable and resistant to penetration by fluids. The device is also resistant to chemical and other cleaning solvents used to minimize the spread of germs and bacterial through contact with portable objects in a hospital clinical and or other environments. While the disclosed embodiments relate generally to a portable computing platform for medical professionals those skilled in the art will readily recognize the need for a computing platform in accordance with the present invention in a wide variety of fields.

This application discloses several numerical range limitations that support any range within the disclosed numerical ranges even though a precise range limitation is not stated verbatim in the specification because the embodiments of the invention could be practiced throughout the disclosed numerical ranges. Finally the entire disclosure of the patents and publications referred in this application if any are hereby incorporated herein in entirety by reference.

