---

title: Micro-patterned SiO/TiOfilms through photo and chemical reactions
abstract: A method for making a patterned SiOfilms over TiO(Si0/Ti0) under ambient atmospheric conditions, including room temperature, through photo and chemical reactions. The method is simple, convenient and can be performed in a short period of time, typically less than two hours. The patterned TiOfilm is fabricated through photo-irradiation of a photosensitive organic-titanium film using a mask. Silica particles are generated from silicate solution by adjusting pH values to 10 to 8 with hydrochloric acid. The pre-deposited TiOfilm has a strong attraction for the SiOparticles, leading to the instant formation of SiOfilm over the TiOfilm. The silica films are also amino-silylated with 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane toward applications such as patternable, location-specific silica-based separation and purification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07622239&OS=07622239&RS=07622239
owner: University of South Florida
number: 07622239
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061010
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 724 965 entitled Micro Patterned SiO2 TiO2 Films through Simple Photo and Chemical Reactions filed Oct. 7 2005 by the same inventors the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with U.S. government support under grant No. DASG60 00 C 0089 awarded by the U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command. The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to patterned silica films. More specifically this invention relates to silica films created through attraction silica solvent to pre deposited patterned titania films.

Silica gel is a core substrate for creating functionalized surfaces for separation sciences. Additionally silica enables and enhances the chemical and thermal stability of the ligands attached to its surface. Bermudez V. Z. et al. 1999. 11 569 Prado. A. G. S. Miranda B. S. Dias J. A. 2004. 242 137. The active silanol groups on silica gel surface can react with organosilyl groups which contain the desired functional groups. This creates a variety of inorganic organic hybrid surfaces which exhibit practical advantages such as structural stability swelling behavior thermal properties accessibility of reactive centers and insolubility in water and organic solvents. These hybrids have been widely applied in heterogeneous catalysis metal ion and pesticide preconcentration ion exchange separation of metal ions stationary phases for chromatography biotechnology and in controlled release pesticides.

Silica is also a very important dielectric material which has been widely used as a gate insulator and an interlayer insulator between metal wiring layers of semi conductor or thin film transistor displays and other related applications. Saito K. et al. 2003 430 287. Furthermore with the embedding of metal nano particles e.g. Ag Cu the potential applications of Si0as an insulator in non linear optical systems are attractive for future ultrafast networks and circuits ahead of semiconductor devices. Takeda. Y. Kishimoto N. 2003 206 620. 

Recent technological advances in silicon processing allow small scale fabrication of high speed devices. As the size of the silicon device is scaled down the device performance is limited by the fabrication processes of the gate structure. Therefore a totally low temperature process for the gate dielectric formation and post gate process with no degradation of the fine doping profile or the gate stack is important for Si device fabrication. Nishizawa J. Kurabayashi T. Kanamoto K. Yoshida T. and Oizumi T. 2003. 6 363. However current methods to synthesize generate Si0thin films have many disadvantages including 1 that the methods are time consuming 2 the need for complex instrumentation 3 the requirement for catalysts and 4 the harsh working conditions such as high temperature argon environments He L. N and Xu J. 2003 68 197 and operation under vacuum. In addition some of the approaches can cause oxygen originated damage due to use of plasma. We have developed a quick and simple method to make patterned Si0 Ti0thin films through convenient photo and chemical reactions under ambient atmosphere and room temperature. The cost is low and the process approach is environmentally benign.

The invention includes a quick and simple method to make patterned SiO TiOthin films through convenient photo and chemical reactions under ambient atmosphere and room temperature. This low temperature and non oxygen based approach enables a non damaging process for fabrication of micro structures and may reduce or eliminate the amount of change in the doping profile and defect density. In addition surface modification of silica films were also achieved with potential applications in protein immobilization and purification.

The present invention provides a method of producing a patterned silica film. The method includes the steps of providing a patterned titania film contacting the titania film with a silicate solution having a pH in the range of about 8 to about 10 whereby silica is absorbed on the surface of the patterned titania film by adherence to the titania on the film thus adopting the pattern of titania on the film and removing excess silica from the contacted titania film. In certain aspects of the invention the method includes the step of derivatizing the silica surface by silylation. The silylation can be an aminosilylation. In certain aspects of the invention the contacting step is performed under substantially continuous motion of the silicate solution. The motion of the silicate solution facilitates the deposition of the silica on the surface of the film. In certain aspects of the invention the excess silica is removed by rinsing with water followed by rinsing with alcohol. This rinsing can be further followed by rinsing with acetone. The alcohol used in the rinsing can be ethanol. In certain aspects of the invention the silicate solution includes about 1.4 to about 2.8 NaOH and about 2.7 to about 5.4 SiO. The pH of the sodium silicate solution can be adjusted by the addition of hydrochloric acid. In certain aspects of the invention the method further includes producing a patterned titania film including the steps of providing a photosensitive organic titanium film and a mask wherein the mask has a pattern of interest applying the mask to the photosensitive organic titanium film and exposing the photosensitive organic titania film having the mask to photoirradiation to pattern the film. The exposure results in a patterned titania film having a pattern of interest.

A simple but inventive non etching related method is disclosed for making patterned Si0films over Ti0 Si0 Ti0 under room temperature and ambient atmosphere in a short period typically less than 2 hours through convenient photo and chemical reactions. The patterned Ti0film is fabricated through photo irradiation of a photosensitive organic titanium film using a mask. Si0particles are generated from silicate solution by adjusting pH values to 10 to 8 with HCl. The pre deposited Ti0film has a strong attraction on Si0particles leading to the instant formation of Si0film over the Ti0film. The silica films are also amino silylated with 3 aminopropyltriethoxysilane toward applications such as patternable location specific silica based separation and purification.

Ti alkoxide derived from the reaction of titanium tert butoxide and benzoylacetone and its hydrolysate are UV sensitive to generate Ti0. Tohge N. Zhao G. Chiba F. 1999 351 85. Micro patterned TiOis made as described by Tohge et al. with minor modification. Briefly the stock solution of the reaction mixture Ti solution uses 10 mg of benzoylacetone 20 L of Ti O nBu 1 mL of CHCl and 100 L of propylene glycol for enhancing viscosity and decreasing evaporation rate of the solution. Film deposition occurs via dispensing the Ti solution on the top of the desired surfaces with spinning at 1 500 rpm for 30 seconds to ensure the uniform distribution of organic substance then soft bake the substrate on a hot plate 120 C. for 10 seconds. The photosensitive film is exposed to UV Mercury Xenon lamp 3500 mW cmat 365 nm for 8 minutes and rinsed with ethanol or acetone to remove the Ti solution residue. This is followed by rinsing with deionized water.

The solubility of Si0is a function of pH Eq. 1 . Under alkali conditions pH 10 silica dissolves by the reversible reaction and with pH decrease silica precipitates from the alkali solution 

When pH is from higher down to about 10 the precipitation of amorphous silica is dramatic with a sharp decreasing slope in dissolved concentration. The precipitation is slowed from pH 10 to 8 and then no further precipitation below pH 8. Dove P. M. and Rimstidt J. D. 1994. In Heaney P. J. Prewitt C. T. and Gibbs G. V. Eds. 29. Mineralocal Society of America. 259. 

Freshly precipitated silica surface contains large amount of hydroxyl group which can rapidly react with the hydroxyl group on the surface of hydrated titanium dioxide films Ti0.nHO 

This reaction was considered as approximated first order reaction. Jiang X. Wang T. and Wang Y. 2004. 234 9. 

Silica crystals were formed on the surface of pre patterned Ti0film through attraction adsorption. Sodium silicate 14 NaOH and 27 Si0 was purchased from Sigma. The silicate solution was diluted 5 10 times before use. Hydrogen chloride acid 4N was added drop by drop to the solution to adjust the pH to 8 10. The substrate with pre patterned Ti0film was immersed into the silicate solution under continuous shaking. The reaction proceeds over the next three or more minutes. After rinsing with DI water ethanol alcohol and acetone the Si0 Ti0films can be further modified for a variety of purposes.

Surface modification of silica for attracting proteins DNA and drug molecules can be achieved by derivatizing and coating the surface with a silane unit containing an amino group 

The Si0 Ti0film was immersed in 2 of 3 Aminopropyltriethoxysilane in acetone for 30 seconds then rinsed with acetone and dried in air.

The Si0 Ti0films were examined using a field emission scanning electron microscope SEM . SEM images of the fabricated films are presented in . Ti0particles sized about 10 to 20 nm previous work can be homogenously deposited on the substrate surfaces such as copper and glass not shown . The uneven surface is due to rough background of the copper substrate. Silica crystals were grown on the pre deposited Ti0film and the silica surface was silylated . The depositions of Si0onto Ti0film and amino silane onto Si0 Ti0film were also indicted by the SEM energy dispersive spectrometer EDS technique . The small carbon peak in the Ti0film showing in is likely from the residues of the reaction precursors which can be removed by heating the film at high temperature 350 C after rinsing with organic solvents. In this study Ti0films were not heat baked since hydrated titanium dioxide is desired to react with hydrated silica. However such organic contaminates were further removed after the deposition of silica film which required ethanol rising for removing pore water inside the silica gel crystals and acetone washing for amino silylating the silica surface. The significant increase in C peak showing in indicated the deposition of organic material.

Precipitated silica is formed in aqueous medium as loose aggregates in which the pores are filled with water. Since the silica gel consists of a 3 D network of particles or short chains of particles bonded rigidly together and since the silica particles themselves are inelastic as the gel dries and structure shrinks owing to the surface tension of pore water the network must fold or crumple and this shrinkage is irreversible. shows a cracked Si0 Ti0film which was directly dried in air without any treatment. To avoid such shrinkage the liquid phase inside the silica gel should be replaced by a gaseous phase. Tier R. K. 1979. In . John Wiley Sons. Alcohol was used to replace pore water because it has a low surface tension and evaporates at ordinary temperature. Such alcohol treated gel structurally resembles the original silica films. When is compared to it can be seen that the silica film did not crack and the following organic deposition further smoothed the surface .

A micro patterned Si0 Ti0film was also produced under room temperature and ambient atmosphere in a short period. This fabrication process provides a simple approach for applying silica as a dielectric material in semiconductor devices in micro electro mechanical system MEMS designs and development and as a substrate material for creating patterned functionalized surfaces. Further developments for these applications are being pursued.

The disclosure of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

