---

title: System and method for base station initiated call setup
abstract: A system and method for performing base station initiated call setup is provided. A base station initiated call setup may be utilized to establish a test call, to deliver a packet data services call to a subscriber unit, or to reactivate a dormant packet call. The base station transmits a BS Service Request message to the mobile switching center, requesting initiation of the call. The mobile switching center will authorize the call if the call to be set up is directed to a subscriber unit located within the service area of the base station and if the service option to be used is authorized for the particular subscriber unit. The mobile switching center will allow or disallow the call depending on the state of the subscriber unit. The mobile switching center transmits a BS Service Response message to the base station, conveying the result of processing the BS Service Request message. If the base station initiated call setup is authorized and allowed, the call will generally proceed in the same manner as a subscriber terminated call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08285331&OS=08285331&RS=08285331
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08285331
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060626
---
The present Application for Patent is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 09 739 923 filed Dec. 19 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 046 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR BASE STATION INITIATED CALL SETUP which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 046 which is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 09 023 804 filed Feb. 13 1998 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR BASE STATION INITIATED CALL SETUP which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 188 892 both are assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to communications. More particularly the present invention relates to a system and method for base station initiated call setup.

The use of code division multiple access CDMA techniques is one of several techniques for facilitating communications in which a large number of system users are present. Although other techniques such as time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA and amplitude modulation AM schemes such as amplitude companded single sideband ACSSB are known CDMA has significant advantages over these other techniques. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307 entitled SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

In the wireless CDMA system a large number of wireless subscriber units each having a transceiver communicates through satellite repeaters or terrestrial stations which are also referred to as cells. Each cell includes a physical plant called a base station. A cell covers a limited geographic area and routes calls carried over subscriber units to and from a telecommunication network via a mobile switching center. When a subscriber moves into the geographic area of a new cell the routing of that subscriber s call may be eventually made through the new cell by a process called a handoff. 

A subscriber unit transmits a signal that is received by a base station. The signal is then relayed to a mobile switching center which in turn routes the signal to the public switched telephone network and to telephone lines or other subscriber units. Similarly a signal may be transmitted from the public switched telephone network to a subscriber unit via a base station and a mobile switching center. The communications channel allocated for communication of information between the subscriber unit and the base station is called the traffic channel.

The interface between the subscriber unit and the base station is referred to as the air interface. The telecommunications industry association TIA has provided a standard for CDMA call processing on the air interface entitled IS 95 A Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System which is incorporated by reference herein. The interface between the base station and the mobile switching center is referred to as the A interface. The TIA has provided for call processing on the A interface through the standard provided in IS 634 Mobile Switching Center Base Station Interface for Public 800 MHz which is also incorporated herein by reference. IS 95 A and IS 634 both define the messages and signals that are sent on their respective interfaces for the operation of a CDMA wireless system.

The call flow in a CDMA system requires processing on both the air interface and the A interface. The successful progression of a call requires that the proper messages and signals are sent at the right times on both the air interface and the A interface. The IS 634 standard is being developed to provide for call processing on the A interface. A number of problems and deficiencies are present in IS 634 which currently does not support some of the necessary operations on the A interface.

One deficiency in IS 634 is in the lack of support for base station initiated call setup. Although IS 634 provides procedures for supporting subscriber unit initiated and network initiated call setup procedures are needed to enable the base station to initiate call setup. Base station initiated call setup is needed for several reasons such as the support of base station originated test calls and the support of packet data services calls.

Test calls are important during the initial deployment and re engineering of the base station. The purpose of these calls is to generate statistics and analysis data which are specific to the base station. The data includes the frame error rate and link capacity estimates. These measurements are used as guidelines for properly configuring the base station.

Two types of test calls are the loopback call and the Markov call. The loopback call provides a loopback of traffic frames through a subscriber unit. It provides a means for a base station to supply a sequence of data blocks frames to a subscriber unit so that the transmitting and receiving performance can be measured. Using the loopback service option the base station generates and sends traffic frames to the subscriber unit. After a delay to allow for processing the mobile station sends the received frames back to the base station. The base station may then compare the transmitted frame with the received frame to determine if there was a frame error during the two way transmission. The Markov call provides pseudo random data for testing the traffic channel. The data is generated to emulate the characteristics of a voice data call without having to involve actual users. Thus pseudo random data generated at a base station is transmitted to a subscriber unit which performs frame error rate calculations and generates other statistics to characterize the quality of the link. Base station initiated call setup is necessary for the base station to initiate the loopback and Markov test calls.

Base station initiated call setup is also needed to support packet data services calls. In some situations packet data services call may arrive for a subscriber unit either from a packet data network connected to a base station or a packet data network connected to a mobile switching center. When a packet data services call arrives via a base station the base station must be able to initiate call setup in order to deliver the call to the subscriber unit.

In other situations base station initiated call setup may be used to reactivate a packet data services call which is in a dormant mode. After a packet call has been set up the call may enter a dormant mode if no packets are being transmitted for a period of time. In the dormant mode the traffic channel is released. If packets are again received from the internet the call needs to be reactivated and the traffic channel needs to be set up again. Base station initiated call setup may be used to reactivate the dormant call.

The present invention is a system and method for providing improved messaging on the interface between a mobile switching center and a base station also known as the A interface of a wireless communication system. The present invention recognizes that the A interface as previously defined by the IS 634 standard does not allow for a base station to initiate a call setup. Base station initiated call setup is needed for several applications. For example base station initiated call setup may be used to set up test calls during the initial deployment or reengineering of a base station. Test calls are conducted to obtain statistics such as the link capacity and the error rate for a particular base station. These statistics may then be utilized to enhance the performance of the base station. Base station initiated call setup may also be used to deliver packet data services calls to subscriber stations. In certain communications systems a packet data network is coupled to a base station. When a packet call arrives for a subscriber unit located within the service area of a base station the base station must be able to initiate call setup in order to deliver the call to the subscriber unit. In addition base station initiated call setup may be used to reactivate a packet call already in progress. After a packet call has been set up it may then enter a dormant mode if no packets are received for a period of time. If additional packets are then received base station initiated call setup allows reactivation of the packet call in order to deliver the additional packets.

To initiate a call setup a base station first obtains authorization and allowance from a mobile switching center to set up a call with a particular subscriber unit. The mobile switching center authorizes the call setup if it determines that call to be set up satisfies certain criteria. To authorize the call setup the call to be set up should be of a service option that the subscriber unit is authorized to use. In addition the subscriber unit should be located within the service area of the base station seeking to set up the call. The mobile switching center also determines if the call should be allowed. The mobile switching center but not the base station is cognizant of the state of the subscriber unit i.e. the mobile switching center knows whether the subscriber unit is already involved in a call on the traffic channel. If the subscriber unit is already involved in a call the mobile switching center may accommodate the new call through mechanisms such as service negotiation or the mobile switching center may disallow the new call.

To initiate a call setup a message generator in a base station generates a BS Service Request message and a transceiver in the base station transmits the message to a mobile switching center. At the mobile switching center a transceiver receives the BS Service Request message and passes the message to a message processor for analysis. The BS Service Request message identifies the subscriber unit to be called as well as the service option to be used for the call. Based on information stored in the mobile switching center s memory the message processor determines whether the subscriber unit identified by the BS Service Request message is located within the service area of the base station. Also based on information stored in the mobile switching center s memory the message processor determines whether the service option requested in the BS Service Request message is authorized for the particular subscriber unit. If both criteria are satisfied the message processor authorizes the base station initiated call setup. Furthermore the mobile switching center will determine if the call should be allowed based on information stored in its memory. The mobile switching center maintains information regarding the state of a subscriber unit. If the subscriber unit is already involved in a call the mobile switching center may allow a call to proceed through service negotiation or may disallow a call.

At the mobile switching center to convey the outcome of processing the BS Service Request message the message processor directs a message generator to generate a BS Service Response message. If the base station initiated call setup is not authorized the BS Service Response message contains an element stating a reason for the non authorization. The base station is informed if the call is not allowed. The BS Service Response message is transmitted by a transceiver in the mobile switching center and received by a transceiver in the base station. If the base station initiated call setup is authorized and allowed then the call may proceed in the same manner as a typical subscriber terminated call. A subscriber terminated call is a call made to a subscriber unit initiated by the mobile switching center network. Thus the subscriber unit will be paged and a traffic channel will be established for the test call packet data services call etc. to proceed.

The present invention provides a system and method for allowing a base station in a wireless communication system to initiate call setup. Base station initiated call setup is useful for several applications such as conducting test calls and providing packet data services.

An exemplary wireless communication system in which the present invention is embodied is illustrated in . In a preferred embodiment the communication system is a CDMA wireless communications system although it should be understood that the present invention is equally applicable to other types of communication systems. Systems utilizing other well known transmission modulation schemes such as TDMA and FDMA as well as other spread spectrum systems may employ the present invention.

The wireless system is indicated generally by and includes a mobile switching center MSC also referred to as a mobile telephone switching office MTSO that includes interface and processing circuitry for providing system control to the base stations. MSC routes telephone calls from public switched telephone network PSTN to the appropriate base station for transmission to the appropriate subscriber unit. MSC also controls the routing of calls from the subscriber units via one or more base stations to PSTN . In addition MSC may direct calls between subscriber units via the appropriate base stations. MSC may be coupled to the base stations by various conventional means such as dedicated telephone lines optical fiber links or by radio frequency communications.

In two exemplary base stations BS and BS along with two exemplary subscriber units SU and SU are illustrated. BS is shown to be interfaced with public private packet data network PPDN . Although not illustrated in a PPDN may also be interfaced with other base stations such as BS . Alternatively a PPDN may be interfaced with MSC .

BS serves cell of the cellular network by relaying messages between subscriber units located within cell and MSC . Likewise BS serves cell of the cellular network by relaying messages between subscriber units located within cell and MSC . As shown in SU is located within cell and SU is located within cell . SU and SU may be mobile stations MSs such as mobile telephones or Personal Communication System PCS stations or some other wireless subscriber equipment such as the Fixed Wireless Terminal FWT .

BS communicates with SU via link which is a two way link characterized by forward and reverse code channels. A forward link is the link from a base station to a subscriber unit while a reverse link is the link from a subscriber unit to a base station. BS communicates with SU via two way link .

As previously mentioned the interface between BSs and and SUs and is called the air interface and for the purposes of the present invention call processing on the air interface is governed by IS 95 A. Also as previously mentioned the interface between MSC and BSs and is called the A interface and call processing on the A interface is governed by IS 634. The present invention recognizes that the A interface as previously defined by IS 634 lacks support for a base station to initiate call setup.

Base station initiated call setup is needed to support various applications. One such application is base station initiated test calls. Test calls are used during the initial deployment and reengineering of a base station to obtain statistics and analysis data which are specific to the base station. A base station which is capable of initiating a call will be able to setup test calls for obtaining measurements such as the frame error rate and link capacity estimates.

Another application that may be supported by a base station initiated call setup is the delivery of packet data services calls. In certain communication networks a packet data network may be coupled to a base station. When a call from the packet data network arrives for a subscriber unit the base station must be able to initiate a call setup to deliver the packet call to the subscriber unit.

Still another application is the reactivation of a packet data services call which has entered a dormant mode. After a packet call is set up it may enter a dormant mode if no packets are delivered for a period of time. If additional packets subsequently arrive base station initiated call setup may be utilized to reactivate the call.

Accordingly the present invention provides a system and method for a base station to initiate call setup. Referring now to a system for implementing base station initiated call setup is illustrated. is a diagram of a portion of system of illustrating the processing elements of MSC BS and SU used for base station initiated call setup.

MSC comprises memory for storing information relating to subscriber units serviced by system . Such information includes the Subscribed Services Records which contains a list of service options that a particular subscriber unit is authorized to use. Service options refer to the service capabilities of the system and may be applications such as voice data facsimile or SMS. Other information stored in memory includes registration information for the subscriber units. Generally each subscriber unit registers with MSC on a regular basis. One function of registration is for the subscriber unit to report its location to MSC . MSC also maintains information regarding the state of the subscriber units i.e. whether each subscriber unit is in a call or not. MSC also comprises message processor which processes the messages associated with the base station call setup. Message generator of message processor generates the messages associated with the call setup. Transceiver transmits and receives messages associated with the call setup.

BS comprises message processor for processing the messages associated with a base station call setup message generator for generating messages associated with the call setup and transceiver for transmitting and receiving messages associated with the call setup.

Likewise SU comprises message processor for processing the messages associated with a base station call setup message generator for generating messages associated with the call setup and transceiver for transmitting and receiving messages associated with the call setup.

In accordance with the present invention BS may initiate call setup to support a service provided by BS . For example BS may initiate call setup to conduct test calls during its initial deployment or reengineering. BS may also initiate call setup to deliver a packet call from PPDN to SU or to reactivate a dormant call involving SU .

At MSC message processor determines whether the call setup or reactivation with SU should proceed based on information stored in memory . Based on the Subscribed Services Record for SU message processor will determine whether SU is authorized to use the service option that BS is asking for. In addition based on the registration information for SU message processor will determine whether SU is located within the service area of BS . MSC will authorize the call setup if SU is authorized to use the service option sought for and if SU is located within the service area of BS . MSC also determines if a call should be allowed based on the information regarding the state of SU . If SU is already involved in a call MSC may allow the new call through service negotiation or may disallow the new call. If SU is not already involved in a call MSC will allow the new call.

Message processor directs message generator to generate a BS Service Response message to convey the outcome of processing the BS Service Request message. If BS is not authorized to proceed with the call setup then the reason for the authorization failure is provided in the BS Service Response message. The BS Service Response message is transmitted by transceiver of MSC and received by transceiver of BS . BS is also informed of whether the call setup is allowed.

If BS is authorized and allowed to proceed with the call setup then BS SU and MSC will exchange messages as they would in a typical subscriber terminated call. The processing elements of BS SU and MSC will generate transmit and analyze messages as discussed in the above mentioned document for IS 95 A Appendix B page B 3 and as summarized below.

Referring now to with reference to a flow diagram is shown illustrating the messages transmitted between the processing elements of during a base station initiated call setup. As in BS is initiating a call setup for a call terminating to SU .

A BS Service Request message is transmitted from BS to MSC requesting the base station initiated call setup. The BS Service Request message contains a Mobile Identity element to identify the subscriber unit to which the call setup is directed. In this case the subscriber unit is SU . The BS Service Request message also contains a Service Option element which indicates the type of service option that BS is seeking for SU . The Service Option element may for example indicate that BS wishes to conduct a loop back test call or a Markov test call with SU . If a packet data services call from PPDN is directed to SU the Service Option element will indicate that a packet data call is to be set up. In addition the BS Service Request message contains a Tag element which serves as a reference for the particular message.

In response to the BS Service Request message MSC sends a BS Service Response message to BS conveying the outcome of processing the BS Service Request message. The BS Service Response message contains a Tag element which echoes the Tag value of the BS Service Request message being responded to. The Tag value will allow BS to correlate the BS Service Response message with the proper BS Service Request message. If MSC decides not to proceed with the base station initiated call setup the BS Service Response message will also contain a Cause element. The Cause element indicates the reason for not granting the BS service request.

MSC will not authorize the call setup if the subscriber unit SU is not located within the service area of BS . MSC uses the registration information stored in its memory to determine if the SU is available to BS . MSC will also deny authorization for the call setup if the service option indicated by the Service Option element of the BS Service Request message is not authorized for SU . The Subscribed Services Record for SU stored in MSC provides information on whether a particular service option is authorized for SU . MSC may or may not allow the call setup depending on the state SU i.e. whether or not SU is already involved in a call.

If the base station initiated call setup is authorized by MSC then the call proceeds in the same way as a typical subscriber terminated call setup. Generally MSC will transmit to BS a Paging Request message specifying the service option for the call being set up. In turn BS sends a Page Message to SU paging SU for the call. Recall that BS may be initiating a call setup with SU to conduct a test call or to deliver a packet data services call from PPDN . Upon receipt of the Page Message SU responds by transmitting a Page Response message to BS which in turn transmits a Paging Response message to MSC .

BS acknowledges the receipt of the Page Response message from SU by sending it a Base Station Acknowledgment Order. MSC sends an Assignment Request message to BS to request assignment of radio resources. Typically BS will then send a Channel Assignment Message to SU to initiate the establishment of a radio traffic channel if SU is not already on a traffic channel. A number of messages are then exchanged between SU and BS to complete establishment of the radio traffic channel. Then BS transmits to MSC an Assignment Complete message informing MSC that the base station initiated call setup has been successful. The test call packet data services call etc. may then proceed.

In accordance with the present invention a system and method is provided for performing base station initiated call setup. Base station initiated call setup may be used to conduct test calls which are important during the initial deployment and reengineering of the base station. Base station initiated call setup may also be used to deliver packet data calls to a subscriber unit or to reactivate dormant packet calls when packets arrive from a packet data network connected to the base station.

The previous description of the preferred embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. The various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without the use of the inventive faculty. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

