---

title: Ambulating ankle and knee joints with bidirectional dampening and assistance using elastomeric restraint
abstract: A hinge or joint assembly includes a first member movably connected to a second member to allow angular displacement of the first member relative to the second member in each of extension and flexion (clockwise and counterclockwise) directions, where one elastomeric spring restrains angular displacement in a flexion position, and another elastomeric spring restrains angular displacement in an extension position. In each direction, the angular movement is dampened through compression of the respective elastomeric spring. After dampening the movement in either direction, returning movement is assisted through decompression of the respective elastomeric spring. Alternatively, one or more elastomeric springs are arranged to both dampen through compression and assist through decompression angular movement in each of the flexion and extension directions. The elastomeric spring can provide a pre-determined force deflection curve in compression and an independent rate of return hysteresis in decompression. The elastomeric springs could be urethane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08100844&OS=08100844&RS=08100844
owner: Ultraflex Systems, Inc.
number: 08100844
owner_city: Pottstown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061115
---
This application is a continuation in part CIP of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 423 435 filed Apr. 25 2003 entitled AMBULATING KNEE JOINT and claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 736 922 filed Nov. 15 2005 entitled AMBULATING ANKLE KNEE JOINTS WITH BIDIRECTIONAL DAMPENING AND ASSISTANCE USING ELASTOMER RESTRAINTS .

U.S. application Ser. No. 10 423 435 claims benefit of the following U.S. Provisional Applications Application Ser. No. 60 377 119 filed Apr. 25 2002 entitled AMBULATING KNEE JOINT WITH RANGE OF MOTION ROM DISC AND OVERRIDE FEATURE application Ser. No. 60 417 268 filed Oct. 9 2002 entitled AMBULATING KNEE JOINT application Ser. No. 60 427 777 filed Nov. 20 2002 entitled AMBULATING KNEE JOINT and application Ser. No. 60 455 809 filed Mar. 19 2003 entitled AMBULATING KNEE JOINT. All of the above noted related applications are incorporated herein by this reference.

The present invention relates generally to hinge or joint devices and more particularly to a hinge or joint assembly for an orthotic prosthetic or rehabilitative device capable of supporting the human frame with dynamic shock absorption when walking while enabling normal or close to normal ambulatory motions.

A description of a typical human walking cycle i.e. gait begins with a heel strike to the ground followed by a mid stance phase in which the front of the foot lowers to the ground pivoting about the grounded heel. The gait then transitions to a toe off phase in which the heel is lifted with an associated forward motion of the leg and body on the ball and toes of the foot. Ultimately the foot is completely lifted from the ground and swung forward in a swing through phase to the next heel strike. The other foot undertakes the same cycle of motion in a generally coordinated manner to provide forward locomotion.

During this complex motion each knee transitions from a relatively straight extension at heel strike to a rearward bend or flexion through the toe off phase and returns to extension during the final swing through phase. During the cycle the weight of the patient is borne through the knee to varying degrees. The ankle has similar transitions first dampening ground reaction forces with toe off then re directing ground reaction force during forward progression plantarflexion and push off and finally dorsiflexion to return the ankle to neutral and assist foot clearance during swing.

The human knee and ankle systems can suffer a number of pathologies that affect the patient s ability to bear this weight and walk with or without pain . Orthotic ankle and knee devices are primarily directed to supporting and stabilizing the joint in response to muscle weakness and or joint instability. The devices support guide and limit the range of motion of the knee joint during the gait cycle. However traditional orthotic devices are prone to rigidity in movement and do not provide flexion and extension capabilities approximating that of a healthy normal joint. For instance during a normal walking motion there exists a certain degree of muscle resistance during ankle or knee flexion and a certain degree of shock absorption by the quadriceps for instance upon heel strike thereby causing knee flexion and preventing the impact from permeating up the leg to the hips and back as can occur with a stiff legged strutting gait.

For the foregoing reasons it is an objective of orthotic devices to provide fundamental support while additionally providing versatility of motion that to the greatest extent possible resembles normal joint and muscle function to absorb ground reaction forces and redirect them toward forward progression. Further an orthotic device closely approximating normal joint and muscle motion can help prevent a learned disuse of certain muscles and movements during a period of prolonged immobility and or rehabilitation whereby the brain settles on compensatory muscle use and movements that greatly inhibit mobility eventually requiring heavier and more restrictive devices resulting in more noticeable limp and an inefficient gait.

The present invention provides an orthotic prosthetic or rehabilitative device that assists or takes the place of muscles that are weak or absent and that normally control and prevent the ankle or knee from lagging during swing through extension from buckling at heel strike through terminal stance on the balls and toes of the foot and from buckling during sit to stand from a chair. The device of the present invention provides controlled multi position rotational motion in the extension direction to prevent knee buckling from sit to stand through a ratcheting step advance feature. Further resistance to ankle and knee flexion is provided through an elastomeric spring enabling a dampening shock absorption feature the elastomeric spring also assisting knee movement from a flexed attitude during the swing phase to a straight leg position extension just prior to initial contact with the floor heel strike . Elastomeric material characteristics further enable relatively high stance control moments to be effectively dampened while swing return moments and rate of return or hysteresis are far less in magnitude and velocity thereby mimicking normal muscle function.

The present invention provides a weight bearing strut assembly capable of supporting the human frame in the act of walking while enabling a leg to which it is attached to bend in a normal and natural ambulatory manner. While walking the present invention provides shock absorption during heel strike and an accelerating or urging capability to a forward moving lower leg during swing from ankle and knee flexion to extension in preparation for receiving weight upon heel strike. Both the dampening shock absorption function and the urging capability or force is adjustable with a degree of force and angle of rotation upon which the force is provided being adaptable to suit individual needs. The present invention incorporates the normal and natural ambulatory motion with the security of a step advance feature ensuring support of the knee during weight bearing extension e.g. rising from a sitting position . The elastomeric spring can be adapted to reproduce the force deflection curve of any bodily muscle by varying the size shape and or characteristics of the elastomeric spring.

The principles and concepts of the present invention can be used in hinge and joint assemblies generally can be used in an orthotic and or rehabilitative embodiment as taught and described herein or can be used in a prosthetic embodiment as modified by those with skill in the art from an appreciation of the present invention. Further in addition to use in joint and hinge assemblies generally the present invention can be specifically directed to devices supporting any flexible ligamentous joint such as the ankle elbow or shoulder and can be adapted to mimicking assisting and or supporting any muscle or tissue including providing adjustable corrective or therapeutic force for the reduction of joint and muscle stiffness contracture or for management of spasticity.

In one aspect of the present invention a hinge assembly includes a first member movably connected to a second member to allow angular displacement of the first member relative to the second member between extension and flexion positions and at least one elastomeric spring communicating with the first and the second members to restrain angular displacement from an extension to a flexion position or from a flexion to an extension position through compression of the at least one elastomeric spring and to assist angular displacement from a flexion to an extension position or from an extension to a flexion position through decompression of the at least one elastomeric spring. The elastomeric spring can be adapted to provide a pre determined force deflection curve in compression and an independent rate of return hysteresis in decompression. The elastomeric spring could be a urethane spring.

In another aspect of the present invention the hinge assembly includes a first member movably connected to a second member to allow angular displacement of the first member relative to the second member between extension and flexion positions and at least one spring communicating with the first and the second members to dampen angular displacement from an extension to a flexion position or from a flexion to an extension position through compression of the at least one spring and to urge angular displacement from a flexion to an extension position or from an extension to flexion position through decompression of the at least one spring wherein a time rate of compression of the at least one spring in response to a force is faster than a subsequent time rate of decompression of the at least one spring resulting from the force. In this aspect the at least one spring could be an elastomeric or a torsion spring.

In another aspect of the present invention the hinge assembly is adapted for an orthotic prosthetic or rehabilitative device and includes a proximal member movably connected to a distal member to allow angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member a spring housing communicating with the proximal and the distal members where movement of the spring housing tracks and is tracked by movement of one of the proximal or the distal members. In this aspect the hinge assembly further includes at least one elastomeric spring in bearing engagement with the spring housing wherein angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a first direction compresses the at least one elastomeric spring to dampen the angular displacement in the first direction where decompression of the at least one elastomeric spring urges angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a second direction. The spring housing can include a channel to keep each elastomeric spring each elastomeric spring then compressing against inner walls of the channel.

In another aspect of the present invention the hinge assembly is again adapted for an orthotic prosthetic or rehabilitative device and includes a proximal member movably connected to a distal member to allow angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member between extension and flexion positions and a disk and a lock slide communicating with the proximal and the distal members the lock slide and the disk adapted for engagement to one another. In this aspect engagement of the lock slide with the disk over a first pre determined range arrests angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a direction toward flexion and provides one way ratcheting step advance in a direction toward extension. Further angularly displacing the disk relative to the proximal and the distal members over a second pre determined range provides free angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a direction toward flexion and toward extension the free angular displacement occurring over the second pre determined range even if the lock slide is positioned for engagement of the disk.

In this aspect the second pre determined range could be adjustable between approximately 0 to 30 of free angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a direction toward flexion and toward extension. The second pre determined range could occur when the proximal member is positioned between approximately 150 to 180 relative to the distal member. Further the first pre determined range could be adjustable between approximately 90 to 120 of angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a direction toward flexion and toward extension. The first pre determined range could occur when the proximal member is positioned between approximately 60 to 180 relative to the distal member.

In this aspect the hinge assembly could further include a worm gear and the disk a plurality of worm teeth the worm gear and the worm teeth being engagably positioned so that operation of the worm gear engages and turns the worm teeth to angularly displace the disk relative to the proximal and the distal members to set the first and the second pre determined ranges. The lock slide could further includes one or more slide teeth and the disk a plurality of disk teeth the lock slide engaging the disk by an interlocking of the slide teeth with the disk teeth the disk teeth and the worm teeth each lying about a perimeter of the disk in a similar plane.

In another aspect of the present invention a cable release mechanism is provided for an orthotic prosthetic or rehabilitative device and includes an actuator rotatable about an axis and linearly translatable relative to a bearing surface the actuator having a projecting cam surface and a first and a second operating surface the cam surface positioned between the first and the second operating surfaces the cam surface located a greater distance from the axis than the second operating surface the second operating surface located a greater distance from the axis than the first operating surface the actuator communicating with a cable and a desired first engagable and releasably movable component of the device the first engagable component releasably moving to engage a second engagable component of the device.

In this aspect positioning the first operating surface against the bearing surface positions the cable to allow the first engagable component to engage the second engagable component. Positioning the second operating surface against the bearing surface linearly translates the actuator relative to the bearing surface to linearly retract the cable relative to the second engagable component a distance adequate to disengage the first engagable component from the second engagable component. Finally positioning the cam surface against the bearing surface linearly translates the actuator relative to the bearing surface to linearly retract the cable relative to the second engagable component a distance greater than that necessary for positioning either the first or the second operating surface against the bearing surface thereby causing a toggle action and snap under cable tension when moving through cam surface engagement with the bearing surface to either of the first or the second operating surface engagement with the bearing surface to provide a user with positive and certain positioning of the cable release mechanism. The cable release mechanism could be adapted for employment with any of the hinge assemblies of the present invention.

In another aspect of the present invention an orthotic prosthetic or rehabilitative device is presented and includes a proximal member rotatably connected to a distal member by a hinge assembly the hinge assembly allowing angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member to and from extension and flexion positions. In this aspect the hinge assembly includes a disk a lock slide adapted for engaging the disk where engagement of the lock slide with the disk over a first pre determined range arrests angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a direction toward flexion and provides one way ratcheting step advance in a direction toward extension. The hinge assembly of this aspect further includes at least one spring communicating with the proximal and the distal members over a second pre determined range to provide a dampening of angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a direction toward flexion and to provide an urging of angular displacement in a direction toward extension. The at least one spring could be a torsion spring or an elastomeric spring.

In this aspect the hinge assembly could also include a mechanism having a catch the mechanism angularly communicating with the disk and the proximal and the distal members where engagement of the lock slide within the catch facilitates the dampening of angular displacement in a direction toward flexion and the urging of angular displacement in a direction toward extension. The mechanism could be a spring housing the spring housing having a channel to keep each spring each spring compressing against walls of the channel to dampen the angular displacement in a direction toward flexion and decompressing from walls of the channel to urge the angular displacement in a direction toward extension. Further at least one post could be fixedly connected to the disk and could extend perpendicularly from a face thereof each post extending into a respective channel of the spring housing where each post forcibly bears against a respective spring to compress the spring against the walls of the channel and against the face of the disk to dampen the angular displacement in a direction toward flexion the spring decompressing against and forcibly moving each post to urge the angular displacement in a direction toward extension. Angular displacement of the spring housing could track and be tracked by angular displacement of one of the proximal or the distal members.

In this aspect as an alternative to the mechanism having a catch the hinge assembly could include a rotor having at least one end tooth the rotor angularly communicating with the disk and the proximal and the distal members where engagement of the lock slide with the at least one end tooth facilitates the dampening of angular displacement in a direction toward flexion and the urging of angular displacement in a direction toward extension. In this aspect having a rotor the hinge assembly could further include a spring housing having a channel to keep each spring each spring compressing against walls of the channel to dampen the angular displacement in a direction toward flexion and decompressing from the walls of the channel to urge the angular displacement in a direction toward extension. In this aspect having a rotor angular displacement of the rotor could cause the rotor to bear against each spring to forcibly compress each spring against the walls of the channel.

In another aspect of the present invention angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member occurs by rotation about a single pivot point. In this aspect the disk could be rotatable about the single pivot point to set the first and the second pre determined ranges. In this aspect the first pre determined range could be approximately 90 to 120 about the pivot point and could occur when the proximal member lies about the pivot point between approximately 60 to 180 relative to the distal member. Further the second pre determined range could be approximately 0 to 30 about the pivot point and could occur when the proximal member lies about the pivot point approximately 150 to 180 relative to the distal member. In this aspect having a single pivot point the at least one spring could be a torsion spring or an elastomeric spring.

In another aspect of the present invention a bi directional damping hinge assembly includes a first member movably connected to a second member to allow angular displacement of the first member relative to the second member in each of extension and flexion clockwise and counterclockwise positions where one elastomeric spring communicating with the first and the second members restrains angular displacement in a flexion position and another elastomeric spring communicating with the first and the second members restrains angular displacement in an extension position. In each direction the angular movement is dampened through compression of the respective elastomeric spring. After dampening the movement in either direction returning angular movement is assisted through decompression of the respective elastomeric spring. The elastomeric spring can be adapted to provide a pre determined force deflection curve in compression and an independent rate of return hysteresis in decompression. The elastomeric springs could be urethane.

In another aspect of a bi directional embodiment the elastomer restraints could be provided with set screws in channels to control dorsi and plantar flexion moments. Each set screw could adjust a size of the a respective channel thereby applying or relieving channel compressing forces on the respective elastomer spring which thereby adjusts the dampening shock absorption forces provided by the elastomer during further compression and subsequent assistance forces provided by the elastomer during decompression.

In another aspect of a bi directional embodiment the elastomer restraints are configured so that while one elastomeric spring compresses another decompresses at the same time providing a dynamic fine tuning to the dampening and assistance forces for example providing adjustable shock absorption at initial heel contact and through gait with return hysteresis.

In another bi directional hinge assembly embodiment a first member is movably connected to a second member to allow angular displacement of the first member relative to the second member in each of extension and flexion positions. In this aspect the hinge assembly also includes at least one elastomeric spring communicating with the first and the second members to restrain angular displacement from an extension to a flexion position and from a flexion to an extension position through compression of the at least one elastomeric spring and to assist angular displacement from a flexion to an extension position and from an extension to a flexion position through decompression of the at least one elastomeric spring.

In another aspect of a bi directional embodiment angular displacement is restrained over a predetermined angular range in each of the flexion and extension positions from a user selected initial point. Returning angular displacement can be assisted back to the user selected initial point.

Other bi directional embodiments provide a hinge assembly including a proximal member movably connected to a distal member to allow angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member two spring housings communicating with the proximal and the distal members where movement of the spring housings track movement of one or both of the proximal and the distal members. In this embodiment the hinge assembly could further include a first elastomeric spring in bearing engagement with a respective first spring housing and a second elastomeric spring in bearing engagement with a respective second spring housing where angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member from an initial point in a first direction compresses the first elastomeric spring or both elastomeric springs to dampen the angular displacement in the first direction and where decompression of the first elastomeric spring or both elastomeric springs urges angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a second direction back to the initial point. Further angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member from the initial point in the second direction could compress the second elastomeric spring or both elastomeric springs to dampen the angular displacement in the second direction and decompression of the second elastomeric spring or both elastomeric springs could urge angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in the first direction back to the initial point. The spring housing can include a channel to keep each elastomeric spring each elastomeric spring then compressing against inner walls of the channel.

In certain embodiments the hinge assembly could further include a worm gear and a disk or wheel with worm teeth the worm gear and the worm teeth being engagably positioned so that operation of the worm gear engages and the worm teeth to lock the proximal member relative to the distal member thereby setting the bi directional range of dampening and returning assistance action. This dampening range of motion ROM could be any selected range less than 360 and the worm gear and associated disk with worm teeth could be configured for engagement capability over the 360 range.

The present invention is a joint or hinge assembly generally and more particularly an ambulating knee joint having several embodiments functioning to address various problems while offering advantageous rehabilitative capabilities. Embodiments of the present invention include one or more of the following features 

The present invention can be used in any joint or hinge assembly particularly those benefiting from a dampening and or resisting of two members angularly moving closer to one another and an urging and or assisting of the two members angularly extending away from one another. Further the present application has applicability in any muscle adaptation system such as in robotics as the elastomeric spring can be adapted to mimic any bodily tissue and or musculature. Additionally any flexible ligamentous joint can be supported and assisted orthotics rehabilitated or replaced prosthetics with an adaptation of the present invention.

More particularly in one embodiment the present invention satisfies the rehabilitation needs of a stroke patient. Stroke patients often suffer a partial temporary or permanent paralysis to one side of the body. Accordingly muscle strength control and coordination are reduced. During rehabilitation the patient is encouraged to walk as much as possible to re train control and re strengthen the muscles and to stimulate the neuro plasticity of the brain to re learn to walk. Patients often lack the necessary confidence and strength to walk without falling such a patient could be fitted with an orthotic knee brace employing an embodiment of the present invention.

In this embodiment the joint would likely be set initially with a 0 range of motion. As such the knee is locked in full extension giving the patient stability in stance and a confidence that they will not fall due to knee buckling. As rehabilitation progresses some range of motion would be allowed and then would be incrementally increased as the hinge assembly of the present invention can be adjusted to enable between 0 30 of flexion in infinite degree increments. Incrementally increasing the range of motion during rehabilitation enables a re development of a normal gait while still offering support if the knee fails to prevent knee buckling.

In another embodiment and perhaps in the orthotic embodiment above an extension moment at the knee assists the limb in the swing phase of gait thereby helping the knee reach full extension for muscle reeducation strengthening and cortical retraining. This embodiment could further include restraint of flexion providing dynamic shock absorption at initial contact i.e. heel strike to dampen ground reaction forces and loading responses for smoother knee flexion during gait such as in forced limb use programs stroke rehabilitation and in any permanent extensor weakness causing knee instability and buckling.

Other potential uses for the brace include any condition neurological or orthopedic which weakened the extensor mechanisms preventing the patient from reaching full extension during walking or causing knee buckling during stance when the limb bears weight.

The joint can be mounted either on a traditional metal and leather KAFO or a molded plastic or composite brace. Mounts could accommodate 3 16 or in aluminum or stainless steel uprights or some other type of connector to be used with composite or molded brace construction.

One embodiment of the invention incorporates a hinge assembly into an ambulating knee joint having an elastomeric spring dampening system that cushions weight bearing shock during walking dampening flexion and assists leg extension during the swing phase of gait. The dampening and swing assist moments operate within a range of motion as provided by a range of motion ROM disk and determined by an adjustable worm gear mechanism. In this embodiment the range of motion can be set between 0 and 30 adjustable therein depending on the strength and needs of the patient i.e. as the patient becomes stronger less support is needed and the range of motion can usually be increased . The dampening and swing assist forces within this range of motion can also be adjusted to individual needs to sufficiently provide a moment at each swing through phase of gait and to provide shock absorption for smoother walking by redirecting forces toward forward progression to reduce an energy cost of walking for the patient.

Please note that although the following exemplary embodiments illustrate angular displacement of a first or proximal member relative to a second or distal member about a pivot point and illustrate angular movement capability of other components e.g. a disk a spring assembly about the same pivot point the present invention is not limited to such structure. The present invention includes and features of the present invention are applicable to hinge assembly angular articulation about instance centers eccentric surfaces polycentric and multicentric axes a plurality of camming surfaces etc.

Further the exemplary embodiments detailed below illustrate a dampening of angular displacement or articulation in a direction of flexion and an urging of angular displacement in a direction of extension. The present invention is also not limited to such directional requirements the present invention contemplating dampening and assisting in any direction. Accordingly the present invention further includes and features of the present invention are applicable to a dampening restricting or restraining of angular displacement from a flexion to an extension position and or an assisting or urging of angular displacement from an extension to a flexion position.

The proximal half joint houses components of the lock slide assembly the lock slide assembly enabling a rotational step advance feature when the hinge assembly pivots from a flexion to an extension position. A lock slide is translatably housed within a rectangular recess in the proximal half joint and secured therein by a lock slide cover . The lock slide translates linearly within the rectangular recess through a center line directed toward and through a pivot point of the hinge assembly the pivot point defined by the pivot post and generally by a center of circular portions of the hinge assembly components. The lock slide includes at its distal end one or more slide teeth .

The distal half joint houses a worm gear rotatably attached to the distal half joint by a worm gear screw . The worm gear interlocks with the worm gear screw so that axial rotation of the worm gear screw translates axial rotation to the worm gear .

The proximal half joint includes on its underside a projecting tab or stop the stop lies on a center line projecting toward the pivot point of the hinge assembly . The stop cooperates with a tab radially extending from a perimeter of a circular portion of the distal half joint . The stop bears against or interlocks with the radially extending tab to prevent hyperextension of the knee when pivoting from a flexion to extension positions i.e. the stop interlocks with or bears against the radially extending tab when the upper member is 180 relative to the lower member . The distal half joint includes an angled shoulder that aligns with and bears against a rear edge of the proximal half joint serving as a stop to rotational movement in a flexion direction and thereby defining a maximum extent of flexion for the hinge assembly occurring when approximately 60 exists between the upper and the lower members .

The ROM disk includes a plurality of spur teeth and a plurality of worm teeth about its perimeter each lying in a similar plane. The spur teeth each geometrically complement and are selectably engagable with the one or more slide teeth . Engagement of the spur teeth with the slide teeth work to interlock the lock slide with the ROM disk to arrest rotational motion of the lower member relative to the upper member in a direction of flexion and enables a one way step advance ratcheting in a direction from flexion to extension. The spur teeth are raked or inclined as specifically shown in to geometrically hold the interlocked spur teeth and the slide teeth together upon knee buckling as when a user falls back. The weight of a user falling back causing rotation toward flexion ramps the spur teeth and the slide teeth together. Due to the incline of the respective teeth the weight of the user acts to further interlock the geometrically complementing teeth due to the angle of incline.

The worm teeth are engagably positioned with the worm gear so that operation of the worm gear turning the worm gear about its longitudinal axis incrementally engages worm teeth to rotate the ROM disk about its axis thereby adjusting a range of motion upon which the elastomeric spring dampening system will operate to cushion weight bearing shock during walking and to assist leg extension during the swing phase of gait. In this embodiment the range of motion is adjustable between approximately 0 30 about the pivot post .

The distal half joint further includes indicating teeth which cooperate with a recess in the ROM disk to provide simple indication of the range of motion set by operation of the worm gear . As the ROM disk rotates about the pivot post by operation of the worm gear to adjust the range of motion adjacent alignment of the recess with a certain indicating tooth would provide indication of a certain degree of range of motion set. For instance in the embodiment shown in and each of four indicating teeth would indicate a 100 change in range of motion i.e. 0 10 20 30 . This feature is helpful to ensuring that the range of motion set for a lateral hinge assembly for instance is the same as that set for a corresponding medial hinge assembly .

The spring housing includes two convex cylindrically shaped channels each channel housing an elastomeric spring . In this embodiment each elastomeric spring is a cylinder of urethane. However other elastomeric materials can be employed such as but not limited to silicon silicone urethane nylon and delrine. Depending on the dampening and urging application various elastomeric materials with properties ranging from elastic to inelastic having varying degrees of rate of return to original shape or hysteresis might be desired. The urethane springs can each be selectively designed in size shape and composition to provide a pre determined force deflection curve to match desired shock absorption characteristics and or to provide a pre determined hysteresis to alter the rate of return of the elastomeric material to original i.e. at rest or no load shape to match desired swing assist and cadence characteristics as discussed below.

The spring housing includes two radially extending tabs forming a catch therebetween to receive the lock slide upon full extension of the hinge assembly thereby enabling dampening upon subsequent flexion of the hinge assembly and enabling assistance upon extension. The ROM disk includes two spring manipulating posts each housed within a post hole in and perpendicularly extending from an outer face of the ROM disk . Each spring post is positioned for reception by one of the channels of the spring housing as shown in and for bearing engagement with an end of a respective elastomeric spring . When the lock slide is secured within the catch the spring housing becomes rotatable relative to the ROM disk so that a subsequent flexion of the hinge assembly causes each spring post to compress a respective elastomeric spring within the respective channel and against the channel and the ROM disk . As flexion of the hinge assembly increases i.e. the upper member moves toward the lower member the portion of the channel housing the respective elastomeric spring decreases in area due to spring housing movement relative to the spring post causing ever increasing confinement of the respective elastomeric spring . The elastomeric springs during compression provide resistance to or dampening of flexion of the hinge assembly thereby providing the shock absorption feature of the knee brace upon heel strike and weight bearing transfer during walking. Consequently removal of weight from the flexed limb results in a decompressive force of the elastomeric springs upon the spring posts of the spring housing which thereby urges or assists knee movement during the swing phase of gait from a flexion to an extension position. When the lock slide is not secured within the catch the flexion restraint and extension assistance features are disengaged as rotatable movement of the spring housing relative to the ROM disk is avoided.

Referring now to and the cable release mechanism of associated lock slide assembly includes a lever a cable release housing a toggle cam a cable slide and two cables . The two cables are each retained within a tube each tube having on its proximal end a housing fitting which cooperates with a threaded terminal on each cable end to retain the cable slide within a recess in the housing . Each of the two cables operate a respective lock slide assembly one serving the lateral joint assembly and the other serving the medial joint assembly .

Referring now to and each tube has on its distal end a lock slide end fitting which cooperates with the proximal half joint to terminate the cable release mechanism at the lock slide assembly . A bulbous cable fitting at a distal end of the cable resides within a circular recess in the lock slide . The cable passes through the distal biasing spring residing within a spring recess in the proximal half joint . The lock slide end fitting is nestled and secured within a detent formed within the proximal half joint and the lock slide cover upon attachment of the lock slide cover to the proximal half joint . The distal biasing spring predisposes the slide teeth of the lock slide into engagement with the spur teeth of the ROM disk or predisposes the lock slide into engagement with the catch of the spring housing depending on the position flexion or extension of the lower member or distal half joint relative to the upper member or proximal half joint . Pulling the cables compresses the distal biasing spring and retracts the lock slide thereby translating the lock slide away from the pivot point and disengaging the lock slide from either the spur teeth of the ROM disk or the catch of the spring housing . When the lock slide is disengaged from the spring housing and the ROM disk the lower member rotates freely relative to the upper member about the pivot point within a range of approximately 120 .

Referring now to and at a proximal end of the upper member the cable release housing is fixedly attached to the upper member with setscrews. The lever is fixedly secured to the toggle cam by retaining screw . The toggle cam is rotatably and translatably housed within the recess in the cable release housing being retained therein by the cable slide biased to retain the toggle cam within the housing by taut cables .

The toggle cam is designed with a projecting cammed surface a first flat surface and a second flat surface the cammed surface bearing against a bottom of the recess in the cable release housing . When the lever is pivoted about the retaining screw at pivot point P . The projecting cammed surface bearing against the bottom of the recess in the cable release housing causes the retaining screw and cable slide to translate linearly within the recess of the cable release housing a sufficient distance so that the cables retract the respective lock slides disengaging the lock slides from the respective spring housings or ROM disks of the medial and the lateral hinge assemblies . The projecting cammed surface incorporates a radius R relative to the pivot point P greater than that of distances to either of the first or the second flat surfaces which causes a toggle action and snap under cable tension when moving from a cammed surface engagement with the bottom to either a first or a second flat surface engagement with the bottom thereby providing a user with a positive and certain positioning engagement or disengagement of the lock slide assembly for each of the lateral and medial joint assemblies .

Accordingly each cable when positioned in retraction independently exerts a force greater than that of the corresponding distal biasing spring to assure a force necessary to fully disengage the lock slide . The toggle cam due to the cammed surface linearly translates the cables a distance greater than that necessary to disengage the lock slide from each hinge assembly and does so without over tensioning the respective cable . Additional components that can be employed to assist in preventing cable over tensioning are detailed later in a description of another embodiment of a cable release mechanism.

When the lever is raked up as shown in and the second flat surface with distance to the pivot point P greater than that of the first flat surface is adapted to hold the cable in a proximally pulled position to hold the lock slide in a fully disengaged position relative to the ROM disk and the spring housing . When the lever is knuckled down relative to the patient the first flat surface with distance to the pivot point P less than that of the second flat surface is adapted to enable a more distal positioning of the tensioned cables permitting the lock slide to remain in a fully engaged position relative to the ROM disk or the spring housing .

At any point during operation proximally translating the cable i.e. raking up the lever disengages the lock slide from the spring housing to allow free rotation of the upper member relative to the lower member . Disengaging the lock slide permits flexion beyond the 30 range of motion to a desired sitting position up to and including a position of full flexion. At full flexion knuckling the lever down again engages the lock slide with the ROM disk to again enable the one way step advance feature as shown in . further shows the ROM disk positioned to allow a 30 range of motion and the elastomeric springs relaxed with the flexion dampening extension assisting mechanism disengaged.

The elastomeric springs are compressed within the channels by the spring posts of the ROM disk . The spring posts move within the channels each bearing against one end of an elastomeric spring to translate a non linear compressing force through the spring beginning at the end. Upon compression the elastomeric cylinders decrease in length and expand in diameter to frictionally embrace the inner walls of the channels and an outer face of the ROM disk . Accordingly varying the properties of the elastomeric springs and or varying the characteristics of the frictional embrace of the springs to the channels and the ROM disk can control the force deflection and rate of return response of the elastomeric spring .

In one embodiment the outer diameter of the elastomeric springs is less or slightly less than an inner diameter of the channels. In this embodiment a shape of the inner walls could approximate an exterior of the springs or could vary to some degree depending on a deflection response desired. In either case in this embodiment the spring diameter must expand to some degree through compression of length before the spring will frictionally embrace the inner walls of the channel and the ROM disk. In another embodiment the outer diameter of the spring might be substantially equal in shape and diameter to the inner wall of the channel thereby creating a higher coefficient of friction to immediately absorb more energy.

In another embodiment the elastomeric spring might have a hole bored longitudinally therethrough the hole affecting expansion of the spring diameter during compression as the spring material must now expand to fill the hole the hole thereby consequently affecting the coefficient of friction of the spring. The longitudinal hole and a varying of the diameter of the hole could be used with either of the spring diameter configurations described above.

In another embodiment a setscrew or pin is placed in a pre determined location within the channels to stiffen the dampening response. Since a channel with less surface area as determined by a position of the setscrew or pin provides the elastomeric spring less room to expand the elastomeric spring will become uncompressible sooner thereby increasing resistance to flexion.

In another embodiment the cylindrical elastomeric spring is longitudinally segmented with portions of differing durameters or densities to vary the restraining force and rate of return over the range of motion of the hinge assembly. Referring now to an elastomeric spring is illustrated having three segments each segment having a different density to impart a certain desired force deflection curve over a respective portion of the range of motion. For example a first segment may have a relatively low durameter with corresponding high elasticity thereby providing a light moment of lesser shock absorption but providing a rate of return or extension assistance typical of a normal swing of gait. The second segment may be of moderate durameter with corresponding moderate elasticity thereby providing a greater restraining force and shock absorption but providing a lesser rate of return. The third segment might include dense material of high durameter and low elasticity thereby enabling absorption of greater force but providing a slower return and consequently not providing a lot of swing assist.

In the above segmented embodiment of the elastomeric spring the first segment due to its position bearing against the spring post is the first to operate or acquire compressive forces during flexion restraint and the last to operate or decompress during extension assistance. For this reason a material with high elasticity and low durameter may be desirable to ensure a certain degree of flexion during heel strike and loading response while providing a high rate of return or swing assist to ensure proper heel strike i.e. to ensure that the heel strikes the ground first over the final portion or range of swing. Since the third segment is the last portion of the elastomeric spring to sustain compressive forces and offer flexion restraint over the range of motion during flexion it may also be desirable to design the third segment of dense material with high durameter to provide a high level of shock absorption or flexion restraint over this final portion of flexion to avoid a maxing out of the joint assembly i.e. to avoid a complete arresting of flexion upon reaching the maximum range of motion set point e.g. 30 during heel strike and weight transfer.

The hysteresis characteristic of elastomeric materials makes elastomeric materials favorable for employment in the present invention. With elastomeric materials greater shock absorption or flexion restraint in compression does not necessarily result in an equally great rate of return or swing assist in decompression. Elastomeric materials return slower in decompression than correspondingly respond to a force in compression. This characteristic resembles bodily musculature where for instance a quadricep during heel strike and stance absorbs or resists a greater force than the quadricep subsequently returns during the swing phase of gait. This feature makes elastomeric springs advantageous to torsion springs which return quickly where a spring loaded to absorb a significant force will subsequently return with swing assist far exceeding that needed or desired by a user. Accordingly a time rate of compression of an elastomeric spring in response to a certain force is faster than a subsequent time rate of decompression of the elastomeric spring resulting from the certain force. Further as a result an elastomeric spring of the present invention can be adapted to provide a pre determined force deflection curve in compression and an independent rate of return hysteresis in decompression.

The above referenced alternatives and aspects of the elastomeric springs provide many characteristic permutations the various permutations enabling the achievement of myriad force deflection and hysteresis curves. Accordingly any bodily tissue or muscle can be reproduced or mimicked by the present invention. For instance muscle performance can be assessed in a laboratory and a force deflection curve charted. Then an elastomeric spring can be adapted to mimic the charted force deflection curve by selectively determining the necessary size shape features and characteristics of the elastomeric spring.

The spring housing includes two convex and cylindrically shaped channels each channel housing an elastomeric spring . In this embodiment each elastomeric spring is a cylinder of urethane. Adjacent to each of the channels within the spring housing is a recess centered about a hole through which the pivot post extends that houses the rotor . Within the recess the rotor rotates about the pivot post . The rotor includes one or more end teeth and two claws . The one or more end teeth each geometrically complement and are selectably engagable with the one or more slide teeth . When the one or more end teeth are engaged with the one or more slide teeth which occurs at full extension rotation of the lower member relative to the upper member toward a flexion position causes each claw of the rotor to bear against a respective elastomeric spring and to compress the spring against its respective and confining channel . The elastomeric spring during compression provides resistance to the flexion of the hinge assembly and the shock absorption feature upon heel strike and weight transfer during walking. Consequently removal of weight from a respective flexed limb results in a decompressive force of the elastomeric springs upon the claws of the rotor which thereby urges or assists knee movement during the swing phase of gait from a flexion to an extension position.

Regarding the force deflection curve provided by the elastomeric springs the hinge assembly of and functionally differs from the hinge assembly of and . Adjusting the range of motion ROM of hinge assembly through rotation of the ROM disk via operation of the worm gear does not effect the rotor or spring housing i.e. the rotor and spring housing remain stationary unaffected by ROM adjustment . Accordingly the claws of the rotor are positioned similarly relative to a respective elastomeric spring just prior to heel strike regardless of the ROM setting.

Contrast the hinge assembly of and where the spring posts connected to the ROM disk rotate along with the ROM disk during a change to ROM setting. Accordingly the elastomeric spring may begin i.e. just prior to heel strike at rest i.e. uncompressed or may begin at various degrees of compression based upon a selected ROM setting see where the spring begins compressed with a 0 ROM setting versus where the spring begins essentially at rest with a 30 ROM setting . This difference in functionality adds to the various spring permutations discussed above further enabling achievement of myriad force deflection and hysteresis curves.

The cable release mechanism of includes a lever a cable lever housing a cable guide the two cables a proximal terminal a proximal compression spring a locknut a distal terminal the distal biasing spring and the bulbous cable fitting .

At a proximal end of the upper member the cable lever housing is fixedly attached to the upper member with setscrews. The lever is rotatably and translatably attached to the cable lever housing by a binder post through a slot in the cable lever housing the binder post also securing a proximal end of the cables the cables lying and linearly translating within groove of the cable lever housing .

The lever like the toggle cam is designed with a projecting cammed surface a first flat surface and a second flat surface the cammed surface bearing against a proximal end of the upper member when the lever is pivoted about the binder post within the slot . The projecting cammed surface bearing against the proximal end of the upper member causes the binder post to translate linearly within the slot a sufficient distance so that the cables retract the respective lock slides disengaging the lock slides from the spring housing or the ROM disk of the medial and the lateral hinge assemblies . The projecting cammed surface incorporates a radius R relative to the lever pivot point P greater than a distance from pivot point P to either the first or the second flat surfaces which causes a toggle action and snap under cable tension when moving from a cammed surface engagement with the proximal end to either a first or a second flat surface engagement with the proximal end thereby providing a user with a positive and certain positioning engagement or disengagement of the lock slide assembly for each of the lateral and medial hinge assemblies 

Accordingly each cable when positioned in retraction independently exerts a force greater than that of the corresponding distal biasing spring to assure a force necessary to fully disengage the lock slide . The proximal terminal the proximal compression spring the locknut and the distal terminal enable independent adjustment of cable length and cable tensioning thereby allowing an independent fine tuning of each of the respective cable release mechanisms

The lever due to the cammed surface linearly translates the cables a distance greater than that necessary to disengage the lock slide from each hinge assembly and does so without over tensioning the respective cable . Over tensioning is prevented due to an over travel allowed by a greater deflection of the proximal compression spring . The proximal compression spring also serves to tension each cable to hold bias one of the first or the second flat surfaces against the proximal end of the upper member thereby providing the user a positive sensory and auditory feedback snap upon engagement and ensuring that the cam lock feature is fully actuated in either the engaged locked or disengaged unlocked position.

When the lever is raked back as shown in the second flat surface with distance from the pivot point P greater than that of the first flat surface is adapted to hold the cable in a proximally pulled position to hold the lock slide in a fully disengaged position relative to the ROM disk and the spring housing . The proximal compression spring can be adjusted to avoid an over tensioning of the cable due to the excess travel. When the lever is knuckled forward relative to the patient the first flat surface with distance from the pivot point P less than that of the second flat surface is adapted to enable a more distal positioning of the tensioned cable first decompressing the proximal compression spring then permitting the lock slide to remain in a fully engaged position relative to the ROM disk or the spring housing .

Referring to the hinge assembly includes the torsion spring the pivot post a stop pin the distal half joint the proximal half joint the ROM disk a hinge assembly cover the break pin and a handle . In this embodiment the ROM disk when is concentrically aligned with and placed on top of the proximal and distal half joints a top face of the ROM disk lies in a same plane as a top of a raised portion of the proximal half joint . The ROM disk is rotatably secured free to rotate about a circular portion of the pivot post when the hinge assembly cover is fixedly attached to the raised portion of the proximal half joint . The ROM disk includes spur teeth designed to engage slide teeth of the lock slide as similarly described above for the previous hinge assembly embodiments .

The lock slide the distal biasing spring the cable fitting and the cable lock slide assembly components are housed within and cooperate with the proximal half joint as described above for the previous hinge assembly embodiments. In this embodiment however a simple handle is used to manipulate the lock slide assembly rather than the cable release mechanisms previously presented.

The stop pin is placed through one of a plurality two in this embodiment of stop pin holes in the distal half joint and threaded into one of a plurality four in this embodiment of stop pin holes in the ROM disk resulting in the ROM disk and the distal half joint rotating as one about the pivot post . Placement of the stop pin as described provides an adjustable flexion stop i.e. maximum degree of flexion preventing a knee in the case of employment in a knee brace from buckling past a certain angle. The embodiment of and can be adjusted to the following ranges 0 20 0 40 or 0 60 .

As previously described the lock slide assembly cooperates with the ROM disk i.e. biased slide teeth engagement with the spur teeth to provide a one way step advance ratcheting from pre determined positions of flexion to pre determined positions of extension i.e. allowing the hinge assembly to rotate toward full extension 180 but not allowing intermittent rotation toward flexion . If the user desires flexion beyond the pre set range of motion e.g. to full flexion for acquiring a sitting position the slide teeth are disengaged from the spur teeth by pulling the handle which compresses the spring to remove the biasing force of the lock slide .

A hex shaped portion of the pivot post is placed within a 12 sided hole in the distal half joint an arrangement identical to a 12 point socket and a hex head screw . A bottom of the pivot post is slotted to accept a tang of the torsion spring . Torsion spring tension is augmented by re indexing turning the hex of the pivot post within the dodecagon. A loop or hook at an opposite end of the torsion spring communicates with a protruding tab on the proximal half joint or on the upper member . Increasing tension increases dampening of shock absorption during heel strike and further assists a lower limb during the swing phase of gait. This configuration is also suitable for managing joint stiffness and contracture as adjustable tensioning of soft tissues with a torsion spring is very effective.

An ankle embodiment is illustrated in that controls dorsi and plantar flexion moments generated by ground reaction forces in a patient and particularly in a stroke patient. The ankle embodiments include elastomer restraints configured so that while one elastomer spring compresses another decompresses at the same time providing a dynamic fine tuning to the adjustable shock absorption at initial heel contact and through gait with return hysteresis. Alternatively the ankle embodiments could include elastomer restraints configured so that while one elastomer spring compresses the other remains idle and only acts upon opposite direction movement established in another dampening range of motion ROM .

A knee embodiment is illustrated in that provides dual elastomer restraints to allow bi directional dampening of angular movement in each of a clockwise and counterclockwise direction from a user selected position. The knee embodiment also provides assistance in angular movement back to the user selected position from and after the resisted angular movement from the user selected position.

The principles and concepts of the present invention can be used in hinge and joint assemblies generally can be used in an orthotic and or rehabilitative embodiment as taught and described herein or can be used in a prosthetic embodiment as modified by those with skill in the art from an appreciation of the present invention. Further in addition to use in joint and hinge assemblies generally the present invention can be specifically directed to devices supporting any flexible ligamentous joint such as the wrist elbow shoulder or hip and can be adapted to mimic assist and or support any muscle or tissue including providing adjustable corrective or therapeutic force for the reduction of joint and muscle stiffness contracture or for management of spasticity.

In one aspect of the bi directional embodiments a hinge assembly includes a first member movably connected to a second member to allow angular displacement of the first member relative to the second member in each of extension and flexion clockwise and counterclockwise directions where one elastomeric spring communicating with the first and the second members restrains angular displacement in a flexion position and another elastomeric spring communicating with the first and the second members restrains angular displacement in an extension position. In each direction the angular movement is dampened through compression of the respective elastomeric spring. After dampening the movement in either direction returning angular movement is assisted through decompression of the respective elastomeric spring. The elastomeric spring can be adapted to provide a pre determined force deflection curve in compression and an independent rate of return hysteresis in decompression. The elastomeric springs could be urethane.

In another aspect the elastomer restraints are provided with set screws in channels to control dorsi and plantar flexion moments. Each set screw adjusts a size of the a respective channel thereby applying or relieving channel compressing forces on the respective elastomer spring which thereby adjust the dampening shock absorption forces provided by the elastomer during further compression and subsequent assistance forces provided by the elastomer during decompression.

In another aspect the elastomer restraints are configured so that while one elastomeric spring compresses another decompresses at the same time providing a dynamic fine tuning to the dampening and assistance forces for example providing adjustable shock absorption at initial heel contact and through gait with return hysteresis.

Other embodiments provide a hinge assembly including a proximal member movably connected to a distal member to allow angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member two spring housings communicating with the proximal and the distal members where movement of the spring housings track and are tracked by movement of one of the proximal or the distal members. In this aspect the hinge assembly further includes a first elastomeric spring in bearing engagement with a respective first spring housing and a second elastomeric spring in bearing engagement with a respective second spring housing. Angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member from an initial point in a first direction compresses the first elastomeric spring or both elastomeric springs to dampen the angular displacement in the first direction where decompression of the first elastomeric spring or both elastomeric springs urges angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in a second direction back to the initial point. Further angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member from the initial point in the second direction compresses the second elastomeric spring or both elastomeric springs to dampen the angular displacement in the second direction where decompression of the second elastomeric spring or both elastomeric springs urges angular displacement of the proximal member relative to the distal member in the first direction back to the initial point. The spring housing can include a channel to keep each elastomeric spring each elastomeric spring then compressing against inner walls of the channel.

In these embodiments the hinge assembly could further include a worm gear and a disk or wheel with a plurality of worm teeth the worm gear and the worm teeth being engagably positioned so that operation of the worm gear engages the worm teeth to lock the proximal member relative to the distal member thereby setting the bi directional range of dampening and returning assistance action. This dampening range of motion ROM could be any selected range less than 360 and the worm gear and associated wheel with worm teeth could be configured for engagement capability over the 360 range.

Tertiary control over dynamic response of the elastomer springs can be accomplished by 1 varying material characteristics of the elastomer polymer involved and 2 varying an amount of space i.e. size of elastomer spring and or size of spring channel that the elastomer spring can expand into during compression. These varying characteristics provide a intricate degree of control over breaking forces and their responding transient hysteresis. In the bi directional ankle embodiments illustrated herein where four 4 elastomeric springs are implemented one or more of the elastomer springs could separately be a multi segmented element or could separately be of varying material length girth etc. to further tailor dynamic response to patient need. In addition any number of elastomeric springs could be implemented depending on contribution to dynamic response and satisfaction of patient need.

Accordingly the ankle joint illustrated in is generic to the four 4 elastomer spring embodiment of and the two 2 elastomer spring and ball bearing embodiment of . In either of the or embodiments the protrusions one in each semi circular spring channel act to compress a respective one of each elastomer spring pair while allowing the other of the elastomer spring pair either remain idle or to decompress during either a flexion or extension movement of the joint depending on a loading imposed thereon by a respective adjustment screw . Note that the protrusions could just as effectively communicate with the outer surface of the ankle hinge with translation to the leg beams rather than communicate with the inner surface of the ankle hinge and strut as illustrated.

As detailed above adjustment screws located at each end of each semi circular spring channel act to regulate the amount of assist and breaking force associated with each elastomer spring by allowing a user to load each elastomer spring individually against its respective protrusion and against its respective spring channel wall. Accordingly this loading of any each elastomer spring while the ankle joint is at rest provides that during any angular joint displacement one elastomer spring can be compressing to provide shock absorption while the other of the pair decompresses at the same time. This feature provides a dynamic fine tuning to the dampening and assistance forces of the ankle joint of the present invention.

In the two 2 elastomer spring and ball bearing embodiment the respective protrusion interacting with the ball bearings provides maximum limits to the range of motion of the joint. Depending on the number and size of the ball bearings in the respective spring channel as well as the position of respective adjustment screws maximum limits to the range of motion ROM are defined. Accordingly the maximum range of motion can be individually selected for each of dorsiflexion and plantarflexion moments.

The bi directional knee joint provides controlled multi position rotational motion to each of extension and flexion clockwise or counterclockwise directions from a user selected angular starting point to prevent knee buckling or knee hyperextension and or to rehabilitate a particular angular range of movement from myriad pre selected angular starting points. Resistance to both extension and flexion is provided through two elastomer springs enabling a dampening shock absorption feature in each direction depending on ever varying knee bending movements.

In one aspect of the invention and that illustrated in the bi directional or double action dampening knee joint acts about a range of motion totaling 280 . A user anywhere within this 280 range can engage a worm gear within a sprocket wheel to activate the dampening and returning assistance over a 20 increment in each of a flexion and extension direction.

The worm housing is slid along a proximal strut to proximal stop . A proximal lock pin is pressed through the proximal strut and into the s shaped slot of the lock plate . An assembled proximal strut assembly is shown in . Operation movement of the lock plate perpendicular to the proximal strut causes the worm housing to slidably translate approximately along the proximal strut due to proximal lock pin engagement within the s shaped slot of the lock plate .

Separately a distal strut receives a distal lock pin which is pressed therein until the lock pin bottoms out below and protrudes approximately 1 16 above as shown the distal strut . An assembled distal strut assembly is shown in

Still separately and as shown in a pusher pins four 4 total are located within and at each end of two 2 spring channels of a toothed wheel disk gear . Elastomer springs two 2 total are placed between respective pusher pins in each of the two 2 spring channels . The elastomer springs may be loaded compressed upon placement. An assembled wheel gear assembly is shown in

From the wheel gear assembly distal strut assembly washer s and the proximal strut assembly are arranged stacked as shown over rivet . A cover plate is placed about the rivet with pusher pins protruding through crescent shaped cover slots one pusher pin per cover slot as shown in . The cover plate further includes an angled member with groove . The groove accepts the distal lock pin of the distal strut thereby assuring that radial movement of the cover plate about the rivet relative to the proximal strut mimics that of the distal strut . The rivet is swaged about the cover plate clamping the knee joint together .

Referring now to and the companion joint includes retaining plate companion distal strut companion proximal strut and companion rivet . The companion distal strut and the companion proximal strut are placed coaxially as shown the retaining plate is placed thereover and the companion rivet placed therethrough. The companion rivet is swaged about the retaining plate clamping the companion joint together.

During operation the lock plate can be slid back and forth perpendicular to the proximal strut to slidably translate the worm housing approximately back and forth along the proximal strut . Engagement of the fixed proximal lock pin within the s shaped slot of the lock plate moves the worm gear into and out of engagement with outer teeth of the wheel gear upon operation of the lock plate . Accordingly a range of motion of the knee joint to provide bi directional dampening and assistance is user selected by operation of the lock plate .

In the knee joint embodiment illustrated in a 280 total range of motion is available. Within the 280 range of motion any 40 increment i.e. 20 in each direction can be selected as the safety and therapeutic range i.e. range providing bi directional dampening and assistance . A user would first operate the lock plate to disengage the worm gear from the wheel gear rotate the proximal strut relative to the distal strut to a desired position then operate the lock plate to engage the worm gear with the wheel gear . Dampening and assistance is now provided within a 20 range on either side of the desired location. The embodiment can be easily modified to support any flexible ligamentous joint such as the wrist elbow shoulder or hip. Only the proximal and distal struts would require size shape modification to accommodate the particular joint. Therefore hinge assemblies of the present invention can be adapted to mimic assist and or support any muscle or tissue including providing adjustable corrective or therapeutic force for the reduction of joint and muscle stiffness contracture or for management of spasticity.

In operation the knee joint provides that the proximal strut is movably connected to the distal strut to allow angular displacement of the proximal strut relative to the distal strut . This embodiment also provides two 2 spring channels communicating with the proximal and the distal struts where movement of the spring channels track and are tracked by movement of the proximal and or the distal struts. Further the knee joint includes two 2 elastomer springs one 1 elastomer spring in bearing engagement with each spring channel . Angular displacement of the proximal strut relative to the distal strut from an initial point in a first direction compresses both elastomer springs to dampen the angular displacement in the first direction where decompression of the elastomer springs urges angular displacement of the proximal strut relative to the distal strut in a second direction back to the initial point. Further angular displacement of the proximal strut relative to the distal strut from the initial point in the second direction compresses both elastomer springs to dampen the angular displacement in the second direction where decompression of the elastomer springs urges angular displacement of the proximal strut relative to the distal strut in the first direction back to the initial point.

These and other advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing specification. Accordingly it is recognized by those skilled in the art that variations or modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the broad inventive concepts of the invention. It is therefore understood that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments described herein but is intended to include all possible variations and modifications within the scope and spirit of the invention.

