---

title: Multimode interference device with side input/output ports
abstract: A multimode interference device and a method of configuring the same comprises a multimode interference region having a major axis; and a plurality of ports connected to a side portion of the multimode interference region, wherein the side portion is positioned in a direction other than perpendicular to the major axis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07734122&OS=07734122&RS=07734122
owner: The United States of Americas as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07734122
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060301
---
The embodiments of the invention described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The embodiments of the invention generally relate to integrated optic communications and more particularly to a multimode interference device for use in telecommunications sensing and related applications.

Multimode interference MMI devices are useful for power splitting and for the separation combination of wavelengths or polarizations SCWP usually in integrated optic IO systems. A typical MMI device consists of a MMI region separated by an input port and an output port. The ports are where input output guides connect to the MMI region. Typically in conventional MMI devices the input and output guides only connect to the ends of the MMI region i.e. they are end ported.

Power splitting devices are required for many signal distribution and sensing applications. As another example wavelength separation combination devices for 1.31 m and 1.55 m are required in the field of fiber optic communications to take advantage of embedded fiber optic systems at 1.31 m and proceed with the deployment of the lower loss 1.55 m systems. Wavelength separation combination devices are also required for optical pumping of a 1.55 m signal with a 0.98 m pump. Commercially available devices typically rely on bulk optical filters. In another example polarization separation combination devices are required for various IO and fiber optic sensing systems such as optical gyroscopes and structural stress sensors. Basically the self imaging effect is a general property of light. Thus MMI devices do not have to be implemented in IO systems.

The guides and MMI region may be defined using a variety of methods that are well established in the prior art. The entire device is nearly always single mode in the transverse out of the paper direction. The input output guides are commonly but not always single mode in the lateral horizontal direction also. Often the input output guides are expanded as they near the MMI region because it has been shown that wider ports improve device performance. However the expansion is typically performed adiabatically i.e. in a gradual way so that only the lowest order mode is being propagated. The MMI region in contrast supports many lateral modes. An input signal excites these modes which propagate with different phase velocities down the length of the MMI region and become de phased. A self image of the input to the MMI region forms when the superposition of the modes in the image plane again matches the original modal distribution at the input plane. This condition occurs at planes where the accumulated phase differences among the excited modes are integral multiples of 2 which allows the excited modes to constructively interfere and reproduce the input s modal distribution. The propagation distance at which this occurs is known as the self image length.

The self image length depends upon the polarization and the wavelength. A useful property of the self imaging effect is that a lateral displacement of the input to the MMI region along the object plane results in a corresponding displacement of the self image along the image plane. This self image displacement is antisymmetrical for the first self image length crossed . The second self image is antisymmetrical to the first self image and thus symmetrically displaced relative to the input barred . This continues with odd numbered self images being antisymmetrically displaced crossed and even numbered self images being symmetrically displaced barred . It has been previously shown that the dimensions of the MMI region can be set such that the modes constructively interfere at the end of the region forming a self image of the transverse electric TE or input signal at one output port and transverse magnetic TM or at the other output port. Thus the device can separate two polarizations or wavelengths from one input guide into two output guides each containing a different polarization or wavelength . The device can also work in reverse as a combiner.

This device uses the property of the self imaging effect that multiple self images of the input are formed at proper integer fractions of the self imaging length. For an MMI region with its length set to half of the self image length the output plane contains two self images of the input. Each of the two output guides contains half of the power of the input guide ignoring the slight losses that occur . Typically power splitters are combined with S bends i.e. first curving guides and second curving guides on the output guides as shown in in order to laterally separate the outputs. The device can also work in reverse as a power combiner provided that the two input signals are coherent. For maximum recombination the two input signals should be in phase.

Power splitters combiners are used in a variety of applications. Many sensing and signal control architectures use a Mach Zehnder Interferometer MZI or variations thereof. schematically shows a conventional MZI which consists of a straight input guide operatively connected to an end ported MMI 1 2 power splitter which connects to four S bend guides with individual parts not shown . A first straight guide serving as a reference leg and a second straight guide serving as a sensing leg are operatively connected to the MMI 1 2 power splitter . Connected to the second straight guide sensing leg is a phase changing mechanism that changes the phase of the signal in the second straight guide sensing leg . An end ported MMI 1 2 power combiner is also included located at an opposite end from the MMI 1 2 power splitter in the MZI . Two of the S bend guides serve as input guides into the MMI 1 2 power combiner which then terminates with a straight output guide extending out of the end of the MMI 1 2 power combiner . The output power from the power combiner varies as the phase of the signal of one port changes relative to the signal of the other port.

For signal distribution applications 1 2 power splitters are often used in series to create 1 2 splitting then 1 4 splitting then 1 8 splitting then 1 16 splitting and so on. This is sometimes referred to as cascading 1 2 splitters. Such a structure is referred to as a 1 N power splitter. The schematic for such a structure is shown in which is depicted as an end ported MMI based 1 16 power splitter consisting of a straight input guide connecting to one of fifteen end ported MMI 1 2 power splitters . The MMI 1 2 power splitters are configured in four rows of 1 2 4 and 8 power splitters in the respective rows. A row of two intermediate S bend guides with the individual parts not shown connects the first row of MMI 1 2 power splitters to the second row of 1 2 power splitters . A row of four intermediate S bend guides with the individual parts not shown connects the second row of MMI 1 2 power splitters to the third row of 1 2 power splitters . A row of eight intermediate S bend guides with the individual parts not shown connects the third row of MMI 1 2 power splitters to the fourth row of 1 2 power splitters . Additionally a row of sixteen output S bend guides with the individual parts not shown also connects to the fourth row of MMI 1 2 power splitters .

The conventional MMI based power splitting and SCWP devices that have been previously described generally outperform competing conventional techniques. Like competing conventional techniques however their input output ports are initially close enough in the lateral direction to allow the unwanted transfer of an input signal laterally from one guide to the other as the signal is guided toward or away from the MMI region. Also laterally separating the guides requires bends which cause unwanted signal loss both from mode mismatch at guide boundaries and from radiative effects of curvature. For 1 N power splitters the bends in the guides that are necessary to separate the intermediate outputs often cause unwanted nonuniformity in the powers at the final outputs.

Unfortunately there tends to be three weaknesses to this conventional design. First the outputs must be subsequently separated by S bends which are not shown. Second the slot width is constrained by the presence of the input output guides along the ends of the MMI region . Making the slot too wide so that it overlaps with the input output ports lessens the throughput and increases the crosstalk both of which are undesirable. Third the ideal device length is slightly different for the slot on and slot off conditions. The length must be set to a compromise length which compromises the overall performance of the switch .

Additionally angling the input output guides of conventional MMI devices has been previously suggested but only in the context of end porting. For end porting angled input output guides degrade the performance unless the MMI region is non rectangular e.g. bow tie shaped which introduces additional difficulties in design and fabrication. Thus there remains a need to improve the performance of the conventional MMI devices by increasing the lateral separation of the ports and by separating the guides without using bends.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment of the invention provides a multimode interference device comprising a multimode interference region having a longitudinal axis and at least one side portion that is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis and a plurality of ports connected to the at least one side portion of the multimode interference region. Preferably the plurality of ports comprise at least one input port adapted to receive any of optical power optic wavelengths and electromagnetic polarizations and at least one output port adapted to dispatch any of optical power optic wavelengths and electromagnetic polarizations. Moreover the multimode interference region is preferably adapted to direct any of optical power optic wavelengths and electromagnetic polarizations from the at least one input port into the at least one output port. Furthermore the plurality of ports may be positioned at an acute angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of the multimode interference region.

The multimode interference device may further comprise a phase changing device connected to one of the at least one input port and the at least one output port. Additionally each of the plurality of ports may be linearly configured. Also the at least one input port is preferably operatively connected to the at least one output port. The plurality of ports may be offset relative to one another. Alternatively the plurality of ports may be offset relative to an end portion of the multimode interference region wherein the end portion of the multimode interference region is substantially transverse to the longitudinal axis of the multimode interference region. Furthermore the multimode interference region may comprise at least one subregion having an effective refractive index running longitudinally within the multimode interference region wherein the at least one subregion preferably comprises a slot.

Another aspect of the invention provides a multimode interference device comprising a multimode interference region having a major axis and a plurality of ports connected to a side portion of the multimode interference region wherein the side portion is positioned in a direction other than perpendicular to the major axis.

Another embodiment of the invention provides a method of configuring a multimode interference device wherein the method comprises forming a multimode interference region having a longitudinal axis and at least one side portion that is substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis and positioning a plurality of ports onto the at least one side portion of the multimode interference region. Preferably the plurality of ports comprise at least one input port adapted to receive any of optical power optic wavelengths and electromagnetic polarizations and at least one output port adapted to dispatch any of optical power optic wavelengths and electromagnetic polarizations. Moreover the multimode interference region is preferably adapted to direct any of optical power optic wavelengths and electromagnetic polarizations from the at least one input port into the at least one output port.

Additionally the plurality of ports may be positioned at an acute angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of the multimode interference region. The method may further comprise connecting a phase changing device to one of the at least one input port and the at least one output port. Also each of the plurality of ports may be linearly configured. The method may further comprise connecting the at least one input port to the at least one output port. Furthermore the method may comprise offsetting the plurality of ports relative to one another. Alternatively the method may further comprise offsetting the plurality of ports relative to an end portion of the multimode interference region wherein the end portion of the multimode interference region is substantially transverse to the longitudinal axis of the multimode interference region. The multimode interference region may comprise at least one subregion having an effective refractive index running longitudinally within the multimode interference region. Moreover the method may further comprise configuring the at least one subregion with a slot.

These and other aspects of the embodiments of the invention will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments of the invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments of the invention include all such modifications.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

As mentioned there remains a need to improve the performance of the conventional MMI devices by increasing the lateral separation of the ports and by separating the guides without using bends. The embodiments of the invention achieve this by providing side ported MMI based devices. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments of the invention.

For the purposes of the embodiments of the invention the term longitudinal axis refers to the dominant or longest or major axis of a MMI region of a MMI based device. Typically this longitudinal axis runs substantially parallel to the overall direction of wave propagation through the MMI region. For example in a rectangular shaped configuration the longitudinal axis refers to the axis running substantially parallel to the longest side of the rectangle. In a square shaped configuration because all four sides of the MMI region are equal the longitudinal axis refers to the axis running substantially parallel to the overall direction of wave propagation through the MMI region. In a circular shaped configuration the longitudinal axis refers to the axis running substantially parallel to the overall direction of wave propagation through the MMI region. In an elliptical shaped configuration the longitudinal axis refers to the major axis of the elliptical shaped MMI region. In all other configurations the longitudinal axis generally refers to the dominant or longest or major axis of a MMI region which runs substantially parallel to the overall direction of wave propagation through the MMI region.

According to the embodiments of the invention side porting includes two components 1 placing the input and output ports respectively partially or entirely on the lateral sides of the MMI region rather than entirely on the device ends as in the conventional structures and 2 setting the input guides and output guides at an acute angle for example angle A to the longitudinal axis of the MMI region . The maximum useful value for angle A depends upon the fabrication and material parameters. Generally the angle will not exceed 30 degrees even for high index contrasts. For the embodiments presented below angles of approximately 10 degrees are assumed.

Prior to the development of the embodiments of the invention it has been tacitly assumed by the industry that MMI devices would not work unless the input and output ports were positioned somewhere on and entirely confined to the ends of the MMI region i.e. end porting . Thus side porting as provided by the embodiments of the invention is a new concept for MMI based devices and has a number of advantages over the conventional techniques of end porting. For example in end porting the input output ports generally must either be made narrow relative to the width of the MMI region which reduces throughput or else be separated laterally by only a small distance which increases crosstalk or nonuniformity . Conversely in side porting input output ports respectively can instead be separated by the entire width of the MMI region without regard to the width of the ports . Second side ported input output guides are geometrically straight yet automatically separate laterally from one another since they are naturally at opposite angles from the MMI longitudinal axis. Hence there is no need for S bends as prevalent in conventional structures.

Third in side porting the ports may be placed at different distances along the longitudinal axis of the MMI region . Hence depending on the particular application this can significantly shorten the overall length of some devices while still providing good performance and can make possible entirely new types of devices. This degree of freedom has not been reported for end porting techniques thereby suggesting it not being possible in the conventional structures and hence providing an unexpected benefit of side porting according to the embodiments of the invention. Fourth side porting may be more compatible with some novel MMI designs than is end porting. For instance some slotted MMI designs may be limited or made more difficult to implement by end porting due to spatial limitations on the device itself.

The embodiments of the invention such as the device shown in were tested for throughput. The throughput of a MMI device is characterized by the power at the output port or in the output waveguide normalized by the power at the input port or in the input waveguide . Ideally one wants the throughput to be unity i.e. 1.0 indicating that no power has been lost from the system due to the device in question. The calculations were based on the well known beam propagation method BPM and the effective index method EIM . The effective index of refraction of the waveguide including the MMI region n was either 3 or 1.5 corresponding to GaAs or glass respectively. The lateral index was 1 implying a pedestal etch. Devices configured with a slot further described below used a lowered effective index of refraction for the slot n. The wavelength varied from 0.98 m to 1.55 m depending on the device and the application.

The configurations shown in were each produced in only 30 minutes which demonstrates the relative ease of designing optimum side ported devices according to the embodiments of the invention. The stated performance was achieved with no parameter optimization except for the length. Typically to optimize the performance of a conventional MMI power splitter one has to vary a number of parameters such as the length the port width the S bend radius and the offset between incurving and outcurving parts of the S bends. If the MMI region is non rectangular then still other parameters will need to be optimized. The significance of the performance achieved by the embodiments of the invention with no parameter optimization other than length is that the embodiments of the invention are easy to design. Furthermore the embodiments of the invention may be fabricated using any one of a number of standard fabrication techniques in integrated photonics. As such the side porting of MMI devices is not dependent on any extravagant fabrication method thereby allowing for an efficient and easy fabrication process.

As a comparison similar types of calculations were made using the same parameters as for the devices shown in for conventional end ported MMI based 1 2 power splitters with non slanted input output guides. The inputs for the conventional devices were centered as is standard practice in the industry. illustrates an example of the type of conventional device tested except that the negative effect of the S bends was not taken into consideration for ease of testing and calculations. The optimal conventional designs achieved a 99 throughput and a 0.1 nonuniformity. Although these performance results are better than the above results for side ported devices of according to the embodiments of the invention it is well known in the industry that S bends are very detrimental to both throughput and nonuniformity. Thus had the S bends been accounted for in the calculations then the performance of the conventional designs would undoubtedly have been reduced.

A more fair comparison is made by designing conventional end ported MMI based 1 2 power splitters with slanted input output guides. Such devices would not require S bends. In this case the optimal conventional designs achieved only approximately 95 throughput and 1 nonuniformity. Thus the design change from end porting to side porting significantly decreases the loss from 5 to less than 2 and also decreases the nonuniformity.

The significance of the improvement in throughput of an MMI based 1 2 splitter with side porting as provided by the embodiments of the invention compared with conventional end porting devices can be demonstrated by the side ported MMI based 1 16 power splitter device shown in which comprises an input guide with a half S bend with individual parts not shown connected to one of fifteen side ported MMI 1 2 power splitters . The MMI 1 2 power splitters are configured in four rows of 1 2 4 and 8 power splitters in the respective rows. A row of two intermediate straight guides connects to a second row of power splitters . A row of four intermediate straight guides connects the second row of power splitters to a third row of power splitters . A row of eight intermediate straight guides connects the third row of power splitters to a fourth row of power splitters . Furthermore a row of sixteen output guides with half S bends also connects to the fourth row of power splitters . Each of the respective MMI regions is configured with one slanted side input guide and a plurality preferably two of slanted side output guides .

First it is noted that there are no intermediate S bends in the respective rows of guides which significantly decreases the design and fabrication complexity and improves the overall device performance due to the drawbacks of S bends as previously described compared to the conventional 1 16 power splitter device of . Second it is noted that the light must proceed through four layers of splitting from a single input guide to the sixteen output guides of . If the 1 2 splitters are end ported then the throughput is 95 81 . However if they are side ported then the throughput is 98 92 . Moreover some signal distribution architectures require much more splitting 1 64 or even 1 256. The throughput improvement of side porting over end porting becomes overwhelming for such devices 87 instead of 70 for 1 64 devices and 83 instead of 63 for 1 256 devices.

The turners of have other uses besides MZI devices. For example shows how a large angle turn can be accomplished without using curved waveguides by concatenating several small angle side ported MMI turners . As shown in the input output ports are straight i.e. not curved and are connected to the lateral sides of the MMI regions of the MMI turners .

According to the embodiments of the invention the input and output guides of the various embodiments may be offset along the longitudinal axis from the ends of the respective MMI regions and or from each other. Three examples are shown in . illustrates a schematic top view of the side ported MMI based SCWP device that comprises a side ported MMI region connected to a straight input guide which is configured at an acute angle A to the longitudinal axis of the MMI region and connecting either partly or entirely to the lateral side of the MMI region . Also connected to the MMI region is 1 a first straight output guide for one polarization or wavelength TE configured at an acute angle A to the longitudinal axis of the MMI region and connecting either partly or entirely to the lateral side of the MMI region and 2 a second straight output guide for the other polarization or wavelength TM configured at an acute angle A to the longitudinal axis of the MMI region and connecting either partly or entirely to the side of the MMI region and which may be offset from the other output guide by a distance d relative to the end of the MMI region .

In the device shown in both polarizations wavelengths enter the MMI region from the input guide . One polarization wavelength for example TE is self imaged onto one output guide and the other polarization wavelength for example TM is self imaged on to the other output guide . The process also operates in reverse. The ability to offset one output guide relative to the other output guide enables the device to be configured shorter in length and to perform better than the conventional end ported SCWP devices such as the conventional device shown in . Even if a conventional end ported SCWP device were designed with slanted input output guides to eliminate the need for S bends not shown in this extra design freedom of offsetting an output guide would still not be available in the conventional structure. Furthermore as previously mentioned slanted end porting performs less well than side porting.

Generally side porting is compatible with other conventional MMI devices and techniques. illustrate an example of this compatibility. shows a schematic top view not to scale of a side ported version of a slotted MMI based switch comprising a side ported MMI region connected to a straight input guide configured at an acute angle A to the longitudinal axis of the MMI region and connecting either partly or entirely to the lateral side of the MMI region . Also connected to the MMI region is 1 a first straight output guide for the slot off condition configured at an acute angle A to the longitudinal axis of the MMI region and connecting either partly or entirely to the lateral side of the MMI region and 2 a second straight output guide for the slot on condition configured at an acute angle A to the longitudinal axis of the MMI region and connecting either partly or entirely to the lateral side of the MMI region and which may be offset from the other output guide by a distance d. Moreover a slot is configured in the MMI region wherein the slot can be turned on and off in the following manner. In the slot off condition light exits the MMI region on the opposite lateral side from the input guide . In the slot on condition light exits the MMI region through the second straight output guide on the same lateral side as the input guide .

The input guide and output guides are angled so signal separation can be achieved without using S bends. The input guide and output guides are positioned out of the way of i.e. without interfering with the slot eliminating one design constraint. For conventional end porting the input output guide s and the slot must generally all fit together within the width of the MMI region. This tends to limit the widths of the guides and the slot because overlapping the guides and slots causes problems with throughput and crosstalk. However wider input output guides are generally preferred and wider slots can be better for some applications. Also one might want to use multiple slots spaced at particular lateral distances throughout the width of the MMI region which severely limits input output guide width for conventional end porting.

The device could be used to optically amplify a signal. In this regard the signal would enter through the input guide and exit through the output guide after an odd number of self image lengths. Pump light could be introduced via the narrow side guides ports which would be positioned at the top and bottom and at intermediate self images of the signal on the side laterally opposite the self image . The field strength of the signal is near zero at the positions of the pump ports so that they do not interfere with the propagation of the signal. In this example a number of design freedoms are assumed whereby the input output guides are not all the same width. Moreover the guides do not intersect the MMI region at the same angle. Furthermore there are multiple ports not simply one input and two outputs. Additionally there are several different offsets d d and d. However even this example does not exhaust all of the design freedoms made available by side porting and is only meant to illustrate the possibilities.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments of the invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments of the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

