---

title: Peripheral filtering star tracker telescope
abstract: A filter or lens for a star-tracking telescope includes a clear center portion and an attenuating peripheral portion. The peripheral portion attenuates off-axis images through any radial line extending from a center of the filter or lens to a circumference edge of the filter or lens. The attenuation is for passing on-axis images with high signal to noise ratios, for attenuating off-axis images, and for attenuating but not completely blocking the off-axis images. The telescope with such a filter or lens is well suited for improved star tracking systems, and well suited for reducing off-axis glare in handheld optical apparatus such as binoculars, telescopes, cameras, and eyeglasses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07719761&OS=07719761&RS=07719761
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 07719761
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060920
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract No. FA8802 00 C 0001 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application is related to applicant s copending application entitled Peripheral Filtering Lens Ser. No. 11 541 190 filed Sep. 29 2006.

The present application is related to applicant s copending application entitled Peripheral Filtering Eyeglass and Camera Optical Systems Ser. No. 11 524 835 filed Sep. 20 2006 by the same inventors.

The invention relates to the field of optical imaging systems. More particularly the invention relates to star tracking telescopes having image peripheral filtering characterized as peripherally attenuating radially identical filtering.

Star tracking telescopes have long been used in spacecraft for determining the location of a spacecraft by reference to imaged stars. A typical tracking system includes a star tracking telescope and can be controlled moved and rotated so at to keep the boresight axis pointing at a tracked star so as to keep an image of the star along boresight in a center of a field of view. The field of view may also include images of nearby stars. Images of nearby stars can further enhance on board positioning systems to determine when the tracked star is the desired star for tracking. Images of the nearby stars can be used to determine a star pattern and hence function as a reference pattern of a cluster of stars where one of the stars within the cluster is to be tracked. Once the desired tracking star has been located and the telescope is moved to maintain tracking of that tracked star images of the nearby stars may still disadvantageously remain within the field of view.

An image of nearby stars within the field of view passes through front end filters and lenses in a peripheral portion of the front end filters and lenses while an image of the tracked star enters through the center of the front end filters or lenses as a tracked star that is tracked. When tracking a tracked star it is desirable to maintain a high signal to noise ratio especially where the image of the tracked star is a faint image. However off axis nearby star images as well as sunlight can disadvantageously inject signal noise into the telescope.

Various prior means have been used to minimize unwanted nearby star and sun tracker noise. Existing tracking telescopes have used elongated cylindrical tubular shades with internal baffling to reduce the amount of off axis noise. The longer the elongated cylindrical tubular baffled shade the more that off axis image noise is reduced. Such shades have been further modified with a shade extension also having a mating tubular cross section but cut so that the shade extension function provides increased shading from above noise images with no shading from below noise shading so as to provide a nonlinear off axis shading profile. In both cases the prior shades disadvantageously extended the over all physical length of the telescopes that are intended to fits within a predetermined and dimensionally limited existing spacecraft tracking system. The baffling of the prior shades also have various baffle angles so as to vary the amount of off axis noise reaching the back end optical sensors. The various baffle angles have a limited angular design and hence disadvantageously have a limited amount of noise rejection.

In the photography art shades have also long been used to limit the amount of off axis glare from affecting the quality of photographic pictures. Some lenses have been equipped with attenuating lenses to reduce the amount of light received in high glare environments. However such a shade also decreases the amount of light and hence decreases the image quality of the desired image to be photographed. This is similar to common sunglasses where it is desirable to reduce glare from all directions including on axis images. Cameras have used concentric lenses and filters where a center portion of the lens is clear and an outer portion is matted so as to fuzz without attenuation the periphery of the resulting photographic image so as to provide an artistic styled photograph where the center portion remains clear.

Handheld binoculars and telescopes have also been equipped with shades to reduce off axis glares for improved image quality. Handheld binoculars and telescopes have been equipped with opaque filters to reduce image brightness across the entire field of view. Generally handheld binoculars and telescopes do not use attenuating filters as these optical devices seek in the main to magnify a distal object.

Some optical filters and lenses have used fixed or variably sized shutters and sized irises to restrict the field of view as is well known. In the case of costume eyeglasses such as those used by children at play a center portion of a lens is an open aperture while the remaining portion of the lens completely blocks image reception. In other types of costume eyeglasses young adults have used decorative lenses where ornamental flakes are bonded to the lenses to provide a provocative appearance where the flakes obscure peripheral vision. Many people especially the aged have problems with night glare and have used sunglasses while driving a night. However sunglasses dim on axis vision that reduces visual acuity along an intended line of sight increasing the problems of poor night perception. Star tracking telescopes and common handheld optical apparatus such as handheld cameras binoculars eyeglasses and telescopes suffer from the problem of injecting bright off axis noise into the image quality of on axis images or suffer from the problem of blocking needed peripheral vision and image reception. These and other disadvantages are solved or reduced using the invention.

Another object of the invention is to provide an optical tracking system using a telescope for attenuating peripheral images.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide optical systems using peripheral image attenuating lenses and filters that can be easily manufactured.

Still another object of the invention is to provide optical systems having peripheral image attenuating lenses and filters having identical radial image attenuation in a peripheral portion of the lenses and filters.

A further object of the invention is to provide optical systems having peripheral image attenuating lenses and filters having nonidentical radial image attenuation in a peripheral portion of the lenses and filters.

Yet a further object of the invention is to provide eyeglasses for reducing nighttime glare for improved nighttime driving.

Still a further object of the invention is to provide cameras for reducing photographic glare for improved photographic quality.

The present invention is directed to optical systems having front end lenses or filters that peripherally attenuate incoming off axis images so as to preserve the fidelity of on axis images in the center of a field of view while retraining a portion of the off axis image. Peripheral off axis images are attenuated so as to preserve the fidelity of forward vision and on axis image reception while also receiving attenuated peripheral off axis images. The purpose is to avoid distortion and maintain high image fidelity of the forward centered region of the field of view while diminishing by attenuation moderately undesirable off axis images that are not completely blocked so as to preserve some peripheral vision in the periphery of the field of view. This center preservation and periphery attenuation has several applications and can be realized by various manufacturing methods.

The invention is characterized in three aspects. A first aspect is primarily a direct application for minimizing star tracker noise. In the preferred form the first aspect adapts a gradient optical filter to a conventional star tracker telescope. A second aspect of the invention is directed to various manufacturing processes or making differing types of periphery attenuated front end lenses and filters. A third aspect of the invention is the application of periphery attenuating lenses and filters to common commercial optical apparatuses such as eyeglasses and cameras.

In the first aspect an image tracking system such as a star tracking system uses a star tracker telescope. The star tracking telescope tracks a foreign body by moving an optical boresight axis that remains in alignment and in the direction of that tracked body where the tracking system uses periphery attenuating filters or lenses. In the preferred form a star tracker telescope is pointed directly toward a tracked star for providing a high intensity and unattenuated image of that tracked star. The tracked star image passes through the center of a front end filter for receiving a high fidelity image of that tracked star so as to maintain maximum signal strength for star tracking. Off axis star images are received through the periphery of the front end filter. The off axis images are attenuated in signal strength so that the off axis star images can still be seen but without substantial glare interference to the tracked star image so that reference to the off axis star can be maintained without degrading the image of the on axis star image that is tracked for improved star tracking performance. The proposed filtering is preferably by gradient or uniform filtering that has zero attenuation in the center clear portion of the filter but has equicircumferential radial attenuation in a periphery portion of the filter where the amount of attenuation has identical attenuation profiles along any identical radially extending line from the center and through the periphery portion of the filter.

In the second aspect of the invention the periphery attenuating filters or lenses have nonidentical attenuation profiles along any identical radially extending line from the center through the periphery portion of the lenses or filters. In an exemplar form the periphery portion is coated with a solid reflecting coating for blocking all transmissions through selected portions of the periphery portion. The coating is configured during manufacture in the shape of triangular wedges equiangularly disposed in the periphery portion. The wedges radially extend from the outer circumference and point towards the center of the filter that still retains a center clear transmissive portion providing an inner portion of transparency and an outer portion of reflection. These reflecting triangular wedges provide effective gradient attenuation but can be easily realized through manufacture of solid reflective coatings.

In the third aspect of the invention the periphery attenuating filters or lenses are applied to nontracking optical systems such as common eyeglasses and photographic cameras generally having the purpose of reducing periphery glare. In the case of eyeglasses the lenses of the eyeglasses have a periphery attenuating portion so as to reduce periphery glare that may for example be distracting for nighttime automobile drivers yet preserve enough of the periphery visions for visual perception similar to sunglass intensity attenuation. These sunglasses preserve the forward center view for maintaining full forward vision acuity for improved safety during driving by reducing the common affliction of night blindness and while reducing glare. In the case of photographic cameras the attenuating periphery portion of a front end filter or lenses prevents side lighting from producing glare that adversely affects the image quality in the center of the field of view from improved accurate and artistic photography.

The periphery attenuation front end filters and lenses can be used to enhance image tracking human visual perception and photographic quality. These and other advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment.

An embodiment of the invention is described with reference to the figures using reference designations as shown in the figures. Referring to a star tracker telescope includes an optical sensor a bandpass filter an optical lens a tubular shade and an annular filter for focusing received images upon a focal plane . The tubular shade may include baffles . A bright off axis star image and a dim on axis star image provide optical images. The images pass through the annular filter the focal plane and optical lens for activating the optical sensor that provides electronic images of the bright off axis star image and the dim on axis star image for star tracking. The bright off axis image could be an image of the sun or a distal bright star. The dim on axis star image could be a dim remote star that is to be tracked.

The bright star off axis image passes through the tubular shade along an attenuated bright star optical path to the focal plane lens and sensor . The dim star image passes along a dim star optical path to the focal plane lens and sensor . The bright star off axis image also passes through the tubular shade along an absorbed bright star optical path where a portion of the bright star off axis image is absorbed by the baffles . The bright star off axis image also passes through and is reflected by the tubular shade along a reflected bright star optical path to the focal plane lens and sensor .

The annular filter includes a clear circular center portion passing the dim on axis star image along the dim star optical path . The clear circular center portion is completely transmissive and does not attenuate the signal strength of dim on axis star image . The annular filter further includes an attenuating annular portion that attenuates the signal strength of the bright star off axis image along the attenuated bright star optical path absorbed bright star optical path and the reflected bright star optical path . Hence an attenuating annular portion of the annular filter serves to attenuate the signal strength but does not completely block the signal of the bright star off axis image . Concurrently the clear circular center portion of the annular filter serves to passes the dim on axis star image . In this manner the optical sensor receives the dim on axis star image with maximum signal strength while receiving the bright star off axis image with reduced signal strength.

Referring to and more particularly to the annular filter is an annular absorption filter having the center clear portion and the attenuating annular portion . The clear portion is centered in the filter and is defined by a radius R. The attenuating annular portion is an outer portion defined by the circumference of the clear portion . The outer circumference of the filter is defined by a diameter D. In one form of the invention the attenuating annular portion is defined by an identical attenuation profile that is equal and identical along any radial line extending from the center of the filter to the circumference of the filter . More preferably the attenuation profile of the attenuating annular portion could be a uniform profile providing uniform attenuation along any radial line where the attenuation is equal at all points along all radial lines through the portion . The attenuation profile could be a gradient profile providing linearly increasing or decreasing amounts of attenuation at points along all radial lines through the portion .

Referring to and more particularly to another preferred form of the invention is a triangular annular filter that is also an attenuating annular filter having a nonidentical amount of attenuation along the radial lines. In this form the annular filter has triangular density portions that extend from an inner R diameter to an outer circumference having an outer D diameter . The triangular portions are a plurality of like triangular portions being isosceles triangles or wedges having tips at the inner R diameter and a base running substantially in coincident alignment with the circumference having an outer D diameter of the filter . The triangular portions can provide uniform or gradient attenuation. One particular case of uniform attenuation of the triangular portions is reflection providing complete attenuation. In operation the triangular portions collectively function to attenuate the bright off axis star images even when the triangular portions are reflective. Uncoated clear optics is disposed in the center while the triangular portions are disposed on the periphery of the filter . The triangular portions could be easily made by reflective manufacturing masks producing silver mirrored surfaces.

In operation the annular filters may take various forms such as with identical or nonidentical radial attenuation profiles but at a minimum has an annular outer portion for attenuating the off axis images and a clear center portion for passing on axis images. As a further enhancement and at a minimum the center portion could also have some attenuation filter so long as it is distinct from and less attenuation of the outer annular portion passing an attenuated remainder of the off axis image. This dual attenuation feature is well suited for star tracking telescopes but could also be applied to other optical apparatus such as personal eyeglasses binoculars telescopes and cameras.

Referring to a pair of annular lenses are disposed in eyeglasses including an eyeglasses frame supporting a right eyeglass lens and a left eyeglass lens . Each of the lenses and include an annular attenuating portion for attenuating off axis images and a clear center portion . The lenses and need not be circular. The lenses and may be for example substantially rectangular in perimeter shape but have two distinct portions the center portion that may be for example oval in shape and an outer portion that may have an inner oval edge and an outer rectangular edge. The center portion and annular attenuating portion would have respective differences in the respective amounts of attenuation. In the preferred form the inner portion is transparent and the outer portion is opaque.

Referring to a human eyeball functions to receive both an off axis image and on axis image for human perception using a retina focal surface in the eyeball . The off axis image may be a glaring image and the on axis image may be a target image. An exemplar eyeglass lens includes a clear circular center portion through which passes the on axis image along an on axis target optical path and includes a lens attenuating annular portion through which passes the off axis image along an off axis glaring optical path . The lens may be a prescription lens for providing both corrective vision and off axis attenuation.

Referring to an edge attenuating lens has opposing side edge attenuating portions and a clear center portion for attenuating left and right off axis images while not attenuating top and bottom off axis images. The edge attenuating lens can have various other possible preferred forms such as attenuating up and bottom off axis images. The edge attenuating lens is characterized as having a nonidentical attenuation profile along all radial lines extending from the center of the lens .

Referring to a patterned attenuating lens is configured with attenuating squares that may be partially transmissive or completely reflective. The patterned attenuating lens is also characterized as having a nonidentical attenuation profile along all radial lines extending from the center of the lens . Various shapes and prescriptions can be used in many possible variants so long as an outer portion of the lens attenuates in some measure more than a center portion of the lens having a distinctly differing lesser amount of attenuation such as transparency or significantly reduced attenuation. For example the lens could be part of prescription sunglasses having a much more darker and opaque outer portion for increased off axis attenuation as compared to less on axis attenuation for defining variants of annular filtering. The eyeglasses could be used by automobile drivers suffering from poor night vision. Unwanted off axis images tend to glare and degrade perception of the on axis images. The eyeglasses would not attenuate on axis red tail lights of cars in a driver s immediate front but would attenuate off axis periphery light from headlights of on coming traffic for improve driving safety yet remain enough of the off axis image for visual periphery perception and safety.

Referring to annular filtering can be applied to many other optical apparatus such as a glare reduction camera including an image sensor which may be for example a CCD electronic sensor or photographic film. The glare reduction camera would include a camera annular filter and a camera lens . The annular filter would preferably include a clear portion for passing by transparency an on axis image along the on axis optical path for photographing the on axis image . The annular filter would further include an outer annular portion for attenuating along the off axis optical path the off axis image . In so doing the photographic image would reduce light intensity of the off axis image thereby reducing unwanted glare during photography while retaining a clear and bright photograph of the on axis image. The application of the off axis periphery attenuation can equally be applied generally to other optical apparatus including mechanical handheld binoculars and telescopes.

The present invention is directed to an optical apparatus including a front end lens or filter that distinctly attenuates an off axis image more than an on axis image. In one form an optical filter is mounted on the light shade with a clear transparent center portion in the center and with a gradient or uniform attenuating outer portions that would attenuate the stray light effects for improved star tracking of an on axis image passing through the center portion. There are many advantages to reducing but not completely eliminating glint glare stray or bright periphery light in various optical systems. Peripheral attenuating optical systems are applicable to star trackers as well as Earth sensors horizon sensors sun sensors optical telescopes and infrared telescopes. Peripheral attenuating optical filters and lenses can in general be applied to any optical systems including commercial cameras eyeglasses binoculars hobby telescopes and video systems. Those skilled in the art can make enhancements improvements and modifications to the invention and these enhancements improvements and modifications may nonetheless fall within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

