---

title: Circuit for generating a centered reference voltage for a 1T/1C ferroelectric memory
abstract: A ferroelectric reference circuit generates a reference voltage proportional to (P+U)/2 and is automatically centered between the bit line voltages corresponding to the P term and the U term across wide temperature and voltage ranges. To avoid fatiguing the reference ferroelectric capacitors generating (P+U)/2, the reference voltage is refreshed once every millisecond. To eliminate the variation of the reference voltage due to the leakage in the ferroelectric capacitors during this period of time, the reference voltage generated from the reference ferroelectric capacitors is digitized when it is refreshed. The digital value is fixed and converted to an analog value which is then fed into sense amplifiers for resolving the data states. The reference voltage is automatically at the center of the switching (P) and non-switching (U) signals and therefore the signal margin is maximized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07313010&OS=07313010&RS=07313010
owner: Ramtron International Corporation
number: 07313010
owner_city: Colorado Springs
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060623
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 984 065 filed Nov. 9 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 116 572 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates in general to the field of ferroelectric memories. More particularly the present invention relates to a reference circuit and method for providing a reference voltage suitable for use with 1T 1C ferroelectric memory architectures.

Ferroelectric memory architectures and reference circuits such as 1T 1C memory architectures and corresponding reference circuits are known in the art. An example of a 1T 1C memory architecture is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 880 989 entitled Sensing Methodology for a 1T 1C Ferroelectric Memory assigned to the current assignee and hereby incorporated in its entirety by this reference. In addition to the 1T 1C memory architecture described therein at least one reference scheme is shown as well.

One type of ferroelectric reference cell uses one or more charge components of a ferroelectric capacitor as the basis of the reference voltage. The operation of a ferroelectric capacitor is described with reference to the hysteresis and corresponding voltage diagram shown in . is a plot of the voltage versus charge or polarization of a ferroelectric capacitor. While reference may be made to charge in the dielectric of the ferroelectric capacitor it should be noted that the capacitor charge dissipates i.e. is volatile. However hysteresis curve also represents polarization which is non volatile. Reference is made to both aspects of charge and polarization which generally correspond before the charge on the capacitor dissipates.

In the x axis represents the field voltage applied to the ferroelectric dielectric material of the ferroelectric capacitor and the y axis represents the polarization vector or charge of the ferroelectric material. The flow of current through a ferroelectric capacitor depends on the prior history of the applied voltages. A voltage waveform is shown in that includes two positive voltage pulses and two negative voltage pulses that are applied to one electrode of a ferroelectric capacitor in a Sawyer tower circuit arrangement which is well known in the art. The exact timing of the pulses is arbitrary and can include extremely long pulse widths. Circled point numbers one through six on hysteresis curve correspond to the same circled point numbers on the voltage diagram of .

Starting at a first point on both the hysteresis diagram of and the voltage diagram of there is no externally applied voltage across the ferroelectric capacitor but there was a previously applied voltage across the ferroelectric capacitor that left the capacitor polarized at point . Applying a positive voltage across the capacitor moves the operating point i.e. the current polarization along the hysteresis curve to a second point . The change in polarization vector or charge is designated P and is labeled on the rising edge of the first voltage pulse shown in and on the hysteresis curve shown in . The charge liberated with the change in polarization vector is referred to as the switched charge. Next the trailing edge of the first pulse in occurs between circled numbers and . This is typically a return to zero transition in the externally applied voltage. Removing such positive voltage moves the polarization along the hysteresis curve to a third point . The direction component of spontaneous remnant polarization within the ferroelectric material is unchanged although there is some loss of field induced polarization i.e. a loss in the polarization magnitude in a non ideal ferroelectric material. The change in charge is designated P and is labeled on the falling edge of the first voltage pulse shown in and on the hysteresis curve shown in . Circled point is at zero externally applied volts and while at zero on the horizontal voltage axis has a non zero vertical component. Ideally this remnant polarization ought to remain indefinitely. However in practice some relaxation may occur. This is shown in . Specifically between the third and fourth points and on the hysteresis curve there is a relaxation of domains within the ferroelectric material resulting in a partial loss of polarization magnitude.

Applying a second positive voltage across the ferroelectric dielectric material moves the operating point from the fourth point on the curve back to the second point . The increase in charge is now labeled U and is less than the P increase produced by the first positive voltage. Removing the applied positive voltage moves the operating point to the fifth point on the hysteresis curve with a corresponding loss of charge labeled U .

Applying a negative voltage across the ferroelectric dielectric material at the fifth point on the hysteresis curve moves the operating point to a sixth point . The change in charge and polarization is labeled N and is shown on the leading edge of the first negative pulse in . The negative voltage reverses the polarization direction of the capacitor resulting in the original polarization direction. Since the hysteresis curve is substantially symmetrical removing and reapplying the negative voltage moves the operating point around the bottom portion of the hysteresis curve in the same manner as described above. The associated changes in charge around the loop are consecutively labeled N N D and D in . Note that the relaxation of the loop is not shown in the bottom portion of loop though it exists in a non ideal ferroelectric material and therefore the charge components labeled N D and D are assumed to all be approximately equal. After the two negative voltage pulses are applied and returned to zero applied volts the operating point is returned to the first point on the hysteresis curve .

In prior art reference circuits the reference voltage bit line voltage for switching and bit line voltage for non switching are generally associated with the Da P and U charge components of hysteresis loop shown in respectively. These three charge components have different temperature and voltage coefficients. In general as temperature increases the P component decreases and the U and Da components increase. When the memory operating voltage VDD increases all three components increase but the P component increases the most. Since the Da component is smaller than the U component a much larger reference capacitor is needed to place the reference voltage above the bit line voltage for non switching and below the bit line voltage for switching. The ratio of the capacitor size of the reference cell to the capacitor size of the memory cell is called the scaling factor . As discussed the scaling factor should be much be larger than one. It is desirably in the range of 1.5 to 5.0 depending on the circuit design. This scaling factor amplifies the temperature and voltage coefficient of the reference voltage. Therefore in prior art designs the reference voltage selection is limited to a reduced range in order for memory parts to work at a low temperature and low voltage and a high temperature and high voltage. In other words the loss of a certain amount of signal margin is the cost for using these prior art reference circuits.

One of the long time reliability issues for ferroelectric reference circuits and ferroelectric memories in general is imprint. Imprint causes the opposite state P component to decrease and the opposite state U component to increase. Therefore imprint effectively reduces the signal margin. Since the prior art reference circuits also cost signal margin the opposite state retention time is also reduced.

In prior art reference circuits when a memory cell on a column is accessed the reference cell is also accessed. Therefore reference cells bear a much higher electrical stress than do the memory cells. A more stable component in reference cells is thus needed. The reason that the Da charge component is used in the prior art reference circuits is based on a fact that Da does not fatigue. However the ferroelectric memory cells use the P and U terms which do have the potential of fatigue.

If on the other hand a reference is constructed that uses the P and U terms in order to track the memory cells then the reference cell capacitor will fatigue and the memory part will prematurely fail. Therefore reference circuits that use the P and U terms but have a reference capacitor that is accessed every time that a memory cell on the same column or same row is accessed are not ideal for a commercial ferroelectric memory.

Another disadvantage in prior art reference circuits is that the optimized number of reference capacitors or the size of reference capacitors or the scaling factor might be different from lot to lot. Additional cost is required to determine the optimized reference for each lot.

What is desired therefore is a reference circuit for a ferroelectric memory that accurately tracks the charge components of a ferroelectric memory cell so that voltage and temperature performance is optimized but that does not fatigue resulting in premature failure of the ferroelectric memory.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a ferroelectric reference circuit generates a reference voltage proportional to a P U 2 charge term and is automatically centered between the bit line voltages corresponding to the P term and the U term across wide temperature and voltage ranges. To avoid fatiguing the reference ferroelectric capacitors generating the P U 2 charge term the reference voltage is refreshed periodically such as once every millisecond. To eliminate the variation of the reference voltage due to the leakage in the ferroelectric capacitors during this period of time the reference voltage generated from the reference ferroelectric capacitors is digitized when it is refreshed. The digital value is fixed and converted to an analog value which is then fed into sense amplifiers for resolving the data states. The reference voltage is automatically at the center of the switching P and non switching U signals at any temperature and voltage therefore the reference is signal margin cost free and the signal margin is maximized.

The reference capacitors in an embodiment of the current invention are not more stressed than the memory capacitors. In the conventional circuits the special concern is the fatigue of the P and U charge terms. The reduction of the P and U terms due to ferroelectric fatigue shifts the reference voltage lower and the endurance of the memory parts is affected. In an embodiment of the present invention the reference capacitors are read from and written to only periodically such as once per millisecond resulting in non fatigued P and U terms for an extended period. For instance a pair of reference capacitors with an endurance of 1E12 cycles with no considerable reduction in P and U could generate a non fatigued P U 2 reference for 31.7 years.

The reference voltage of the present invention is kept at the same voltage between refreshes so no extra time is needed to generate a reference voltage after chip enable as with some prior art reference circuits. Thus the reference circuit of the present invention is suitable for fast memory operation.

In the voltage reference circuit of the present invention separate reference bit lines are not needed. Thus the shielding methodology taught in U.S. Pat. No. 6 717 839 entitled Bit line Shielding Method for Ferroelectric Memories which is also incorporated by this reference can be used to have coupling free read operations.

In a ferroelectric memory using the reference circuit of the present invention retention time is maximized due to the fact that the P U 2 term is constant for same state and opposite state scenarios. After imprint the increase in the U term is equivalent to the decrease in the P term. In other words the reference voltage generated in the present invention is at the center of the P and U terms even for an imprinted capacitor.

The reference capacitors used in the current invention are exactly the same size as the memory ferroelectric capacitors. There is no need to determine an optimum reference capacitor size in the production flow as may be required in current programmable reference techniques.

Referring now to a reference circuit for a ferroelectric memory includes a reference generating circuit for generating a ferroelectric reference voltage and an updating or refresh circuit coupled to the reference generating circuit through the VREF line for providing a periodically updated version of the ferroelectric reference voltage at the VREF OUT output.

The reference generating circuit includes at least two ferroelectric reference cells each including a transistor and a ferroelectric capacitor. A first ferroelectric reference cell includes transistor M and ferroelectric capacitor C. A second ferroelectric reference cell includes transistor M and ferroelectric capacitor C. Any even number of ferroelectric reference cells may be used as is explained in further detail below. In the embodiment shown in a third ferroelectric reference cell including transistor M and ferroelectric capacitor C as well as a fourth ferroelectric reference cell including transistor M and ferroelectric capacitor C are shown.

The reference generating circuit includes a number of buses or lines for carrying various signals used in generating the initial reference voltage VREF. Reference generating circuit includes a reference word line designated WLREF a reference plate line designated PLREF and at least two reference bit lines BLR and BLR. In the embodiment shown in additional bit lines BLR and BLR are shown. Additional reference bit lines are of course contemplated to correspond to additional reference cells as is also explained further below.

Each of the ferroelectric reference cells is coupled to the reference word line the reference plate line and one of the reference bit lines. For example the reference cell including transistor M and ferroelectric capacitor C is coupled in the following manner the gate of transistor M is coupled to the WLREF word reference line the source drain of transistor M is coupled to the reference bit line BLR and the ferroelectric capacitor C is coupled to the reference plate line PLREF. As another example the reference cell including transistor M and ferroelectric capacitor C is coupled in the following manner the gate of transistor M is coupled to the WLREF word reference line the source drain of transistor M is coupled to the reference bit line BLR and the ferroelectric capacitor C is coupled to the reference plate line PLREF.

At least one of the reference bit lines such as BLR provides the ferroelectric reference voltage VREF although all of the reference bit lines are shorted together with transistors MA MB and MC under control of the EQ equalizing signal. In this way fluctuations from individual reference memory cell pairs are averaged out. Although transistors MA MB and MC are shown as forming the equalizing circuit additional transistors are contemplated if additional memory reference cells are used.

Additional signal and power lines include a RESTORE line a VDD power supply line and transistors M and M for restoring the voltage of bit lines BLR and BLR. Lines BLPCU BLPCP and ground are used to discharge the reference bit lines through transistors M M M and M.

The updating or refresh circuit includes a counter a DAC coupled to the counter a comparator having a first input coupled to an output of the DAC for receiving the VD voltage a second input for receiving the VREF ferroelectric reference voltage and an output for providing the VC output voltage which is used in controlling the counter and a sample and hold circuit having an input coupled to the output of the DAC and an output for providing a periodically updated ferroelectric reference voltage designated VREF OUT.

The sample and hold circuit includes a transistor M having a first source drain forming the input of the sample and hold circuit a second source drain and a gate for receiving an UPDATE control signal a capacitor C coupled between the second source drain of transistor M and ground and a buffer stage having an input coupled to the second source drain of transistor M and an output forming the output of the sample and hold circuit .

By definition the charge term P U 2 is in the center between the bit line voltages corresponding to the P term and the U charge terms. Since the reference capacitors C C C and C and the memory capacitors not shown in are exposed to the same ambient temperature the P U 2 charge term from the reference capacitors is automatically centered between the switching and non switching charge from memory capacitors at any temperature. If the read voltage for the reference capacitors and memory capacitors is the same the resultant P U 2 charge term from the reference capacitors is also automatically centered between the switching and non switching charge terms from the memory capacitors at any operating voltage VDD . To assure that the same voltage is used for the reference and memory capacitors the reference capacitors are accessed periodically such as once per millisecond. Any changes occurring to the applied voltage in less than a millisecond are not likely to appreciably skew the reference voltage.

As shown in a pair of ferroelectric capacitors C and C have the same size as the memory cell capacitors not shown . In operation the polarization vectors in ferroelectric capacitors C and C are poled in opposite directions. For example C is poled downwards P term and C is poled upwards U term . N channel transistors M and M couple C and C to reference bit lines BLR and BLR respectively. The reference bit lines BLR BLR BLR and BLR have the same parasitic capacitance as the real bit lines. Dummy transistors which are not shown in are coupled to the reference bit lines to get equal parasitic capacitance. Ferroelectric capacitors C and C share the same plate line PLREF and the gates of transistors M and M are controlled by the same word line WLREF. N channel transistor MA is used to short reference bit lines BLR and BLR when the EQ control signal is high. The structure described above can be duplicated as many times as desired to obtain the mean value of P U 2 of all memory cells and to have optimal trade off between the die size and distribution of the P and U terms across the die.

As previously described also shows an example of sample and hold circuit which is constructed with transistor M capacitor C and an analog buffer . The function of the sample and hold circuit is to hold the previous reference voltage during the generation of a new reference voltage. The updating of the reference voltage starts at turning transistor M off. After transistor M is turned off capacitor C holds the value of VD. Buffer is an analog voltage buffer and its output is equal to the voltage on capacitor Co. Thus VREF OUT is always kept at a valid reference level. After transistor M is off the reference bit lines are discharged to ground by pulling the BLPCP and BLPCU lines high. Then the BLPCP and BLPCU lines are driven low to float the reference bit lines. Then the reference word line WLREF goes high. After some delay the plate line PLREF is pulled high to transfer the P charge term from capacitor C and the U charge term from capacitor C to reference bit lines BLR and BLR respectively. Similarly the charge terms on capacitors C and C as well as any other reference capacitors are transferred to the corresponding reference bit lines if more pairs of reference capacitors are used . Then reference word line WLREF is driven low and the EQ signal is pulled high to turn on transistors MA MB and MC as well as any other equalization transistors .

Thus the reference voltage VREF corresponding to the desired P U 2 charge term is obtained by shorting all the reference bit lines together through transistors MA MB and MC as well as any other transistors. At the same time as word line reference WLREF goes high counter is cleared to a count of zero using the CLEAR control signal input. When the VREF voltage is obtained the counter starts counting up from a count of zero using the COUNT control signal input. The number of output bits of counter is determined by the desired resolution. As the digital output of the counter increases the corresponding analog output voltage VD from the digital to analog conversion block DAC also increases. As soon as the VD voltage becomes higher than the VREF voltage the comparator output voltage VC changes from a zero to a one. This voltage is fed back to the STOP control input of counter to freeze the output of the counter. The analog output range of DAC is from an initial zero volts to a final VR voltage. Thus the VR final voltage is set higher than any possible desired value of the VREF voltage. After the STOP signal goes high the UPDATE signal goes high and the VREF OUT voltage is driven to VD volts. Finally the reference bit lines are charged to either VDD by M and M or ground by M and M and the reference plate line PLREF is pulsed to restore the polarization vectors in the reference capacitors C C C and C as well as any other reference capacitors that may be used.

Referring now to a timing diagram is shown corresponding to the operational procedure described above. The following voltage waveforms are shown corresponding to the following designated signals UPDATE BLPCP BLPCU WLREF EQ CLEAR PLREF COUNT VC STOP and RESTORE. The reference voltage VREF OUT is coupled every time a new VREF is generated to trace the variations caused by temperature and the VDD.

While there have been described above the principles of the present invention in conjunction with a preferred embodiment thereof it is to be clearly understood that the foregoing description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation to the scope of the invention. Particularly it is recognized that the teachings of the foregoing disclosure will suggest other modifications to those persons skilled in the relevant art. Such modifications may involve other features which are already known per se and which may be used instead of or in addition to features already described herein. Although claims have been formulated in this application to particular combinations of features it should be understood that the scope of the disclosure herein also includes any novel feature or any novel combination of features disclosed either explicitly or implicitly or any generalization or modification thereof which would be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art whether or not such relates to the same invention as presently claimed in any claim and whether or not it mitigates any or all of the same technical problems as confronted by the present invention. The applicants hereby reserve the right to formulate new claims to such features and or combinations of such features during the prosecution of the present application or of any further application derived therefrom.

