---

title: Advanced handover for adaptive antennas
abstract: Handover is a main function that is used to support mobility in the network. In a cellular communication network having adaptive antennas for enabling narrow beam operation, it is assumed that a mobile unit is served by an active cell set (S). A basic idea according to the present invention is to select, prior to establishment of a new serving radio link for a mobile unit, a narrow target beam within a neighbor area of the current active cell set of the mobile unit based on pre-established information of narrow beams within the neighbor area (S), and to initiate establishment of the new serving radio link directly with the selected narrow target beam (S). In this way, the narrow target beam can be selected at handover initiation and the new radio link can be established directly with a target narrow beam without first establishing the radio link with a cell-wide beam and then, after uplink measurements, reconfiguring the radio link onto a narrow beam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09426712&OS=09426712&RS=09426712
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (Publ)
number: 09426712
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20060830
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 781 368 filed Mar. 13 2006 the disclosure of which is fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to wireless or cellular communication and more particularly to handover for adaptive antennas.

The use of adaptive or smart antennas is considered as one of the key features for increasing coverage and capacity of a wireless system such as WCDMA. When beamforming is applied in the base station several narrow beams compared to the sector cell beam may be created to maintain coverage in the cell. illustrates a sector cell antenna beam. Although a sector antenna is useful to communicate broadcast and or control information to all mobiles in the sector cell an adaptive antenna may be used to transmit and receive in narrow beams covering just a part of the sector cell. shows an example of a narrow antenna beam. illustrates an example of a cellular network with a base station transmitting a sector beam a base station transmitting one of the possible beams in a multi beam system and a base station transmitting a steerable beam. Some benefits of adaptive antennas are shown in where a narrow beam of the adaptive antenna may be directed to an intended mobile and therefore spreads less interference in the download or downlink direction. The narrow beam also suppresses spatial interference from adjacent cell interferers in the uplink direction. Both factors increase the signal to interference gain and therefore increase the overall system performance. Currently there exist no commercial installations of adaptive antennas in the field of WCDMA systems.

Another fundamental feature in a cellular network is handover HO . Handover is a main function that is used to support mobility in the network. When a user is moving in the cellular network it has to change serving cell when the signal from the current cell is too weak to support the current radio link. Also in e.g. WCDMA there is a soft handover SHO functionality. This means that there may exist several radio links between the user terminal and the network. This has the effect that the combination of several radio links may together provide sufficient quality of the combined radio link set.

When narrow beams are created by the smart antenna system the user equipment UE needs to make a handover between the different beams in order to maintain the call. In order to make these handovers a reference or pilot signal measurement is used to decide upon the quality of a specific base station antenna beam.

However when adaptive antennas and handover are combined in wireless networks such as WCDMA networks certain problem arises. In many systems e.g. WCDMA a common pilot signal is used as a reference for the handover measurements. This reference should be transmitted in the whole cell defining the cell coverage as specified by 3GPP standards. Hence the reference is common for an entire cell and may thus constitute a poor reference for the quality in specific beams when beamforming is applied. Furthermore when performing a handover the narrow beams of the adjacent cells are not known to the mobile hence the handover needs to be carried out on sector covering wide beams.

In reference 1 downlink quality measurements associated with a broadcast signal transmission from neighboring base stations are detected by the mobile and reported to the radio network. First a target base station is determined based on the measurements and a radio link is established between the target base station and the mobile using the cell wide broadcast signal. Subsequently a desired antenna beam is determined using uplink measurements and the radio link is then re configured to the desired antenna beam. This means that after establishing a radio link the link needs to be re configured onto a narrow beam. When a new handover should be performed each radio link must first be re configured to a sector wide beam again. This process will not only consume resources in the network for signaling but will also lower the capacity since some radio links are transmitted over a wide sector beam instead of a high gain narrow beam.

There is thus a general need to improve the handover function in wireless systems when adaptive antennas and or beamforming is applied.

It is a general object of the present invention to improve handover in wireless cellular systems using adaptive antennas for beamforming.

It is an object to improve the possibility to secure and more fully exploit the system capacity coverage potential offered by narrow beam adaptive antenna techniques.

In particular it is desirable to facilitate the handover function to allow for direct handover from to narrow beams and narrow beam to narrow beam without the need to back off and transmit over the entire cell at handover.

Briefly the problem when adaptive antenna AA technology is deployed is that the common reference signal specified by standards covers the whole cell while the beam pattern formed by the AA system will cover parts of the cell only.

A basic idea according to the present invention is to select prior to establishment of a new serving radio link for a mobile unit a narrow target beam within a neighbor area of the current active cell set of the mobile unit based on pre established information of narrow beams within the neighbor area and to initiate establishment of the new serving radio link directly with the selected narrow target beam.

In this way the narrow target beam can be selected at handover initiation and the new radio link can be established directly with a target narrow beam also referred to as a sub cell beam or cell portion beam without first establishing the radio link with a cell wide beam and then after uplink measurements reconfiguring the radio link onto a narrow beam.

The active cell set may include one or more active cells and the neighbor area may include one or more neighbor cells.

The invention also relates to a network unit in a cellular radio communication system. The network unit preferably comprises a handover controller and an associated information structure such as a table and or database for storing information of narrow beams within said cellular communication system. The handover controller is operable for consulting the information structure prior to establishment of a new serving radio link for a mobile unit to find a suitable narrow target beam within a neighbor area of the current active cell set and for initiating establishment of the new radio link directly with the selected narrow target beam.

The invention also provides a database for supporting handover in a cellular radio communication system where the database is configured for storing information of narrow beams within the cellular communication system and structured for associating each relevant combination of active cell set and target cell with a narrow beam to enable identification of a narrow target beam in response to information of active cell set and target cell.

Other advantages offered by the invention will be appreciated when reading the below description of embodiments of the invention.

For a better understanding of the invention it may be useful to begin with a brief overview and analysis of the prior art techniques.

In WCDMA for example the handover measurements and signaling is always based on the Primary Common PIlot CHannel P CPICH which is the basis for all measurements in the system. This signal which is a unique sequence in each cell is measured by all terminals in the system. It can be argued that this is the signal that defines a cell in a WCDMA system. Since this signal needs to be the same in the whole cell certain problems arise when several narrow beams are used to cover a cell e.g. when beamforming is applied in the system. For example the handover mechanism is based on quality measurements on the P CPICH. The UE is constantly measuring the quality of the pilot from neighboring cells and this is reported to the radio network controller RNC . The RNC then decide to add a link from a certain cell to the active set if certain requirements are fulfilled e.g. the quality of the pilot signal is above a certain threshold. Also when the quality of a pilot signal drop below a certain limit this radio link is dropped. In this way the UE can maintain a radio connection when it travels through the cellular layout of a system.

It has been recognized that the primary problem when beamforming is deployed in a conventional WCDMA system is how to manage the handovers. Since the mobile or UE receives the radio link through a narrow beam the channel quality of which may be very different from the quality of a sector covering P CPICH the handover measurements made by the UE on the P CPICH may not reflect the quality that the UE experiences with transmission over the narrow beam. In this case a radio link that is below the threshold when measured on the P CPICH may be dropped even if the quality on the narrow beam is above the threshold. Another problem that arises when beamforming is used is that the prior art systems cannot handle inter intra cell beam handovers in an efficient way. Since all handover measurements are based on the P CPICH the quality of each beam cannot be monitored by the UE.

This problem is alleviated to some extent for the intra cell case by measurements per user in each cell portion of a given cell as introduced in later revisions of the 3GPP standard of reference 2 . However it is not possible to use these measurements for handover from one cell to another cell due to limitations in the 3GPP standard. In addition since the measurements are defined to be performed by the base station on the uplink channel they will not really tell the quality of the downlink channel.

The invention proposes an entirely different solution. A basic idea according to the present invention is to select prior to establishment of a new serving radio link for a mobile unit a narrow target beam within a neighbor area of the current active cell set of the mobile unit based on pre established information of narrow beams within the neighbor area and to initiate establishment of the new serving radio link directly with the selected narrow target beam.

In this way the narrow target beam can be selected at handover initiation and the new radio link can be established directly with a target narrow beam a narrow beam is also referred to as a sub cell beam cell portion beam or lobe without first establishing the radio link with a cell wide beam and then after uplink measurements reconfiguring the radio link onto a narrow beam.

Preferably a target beam is selected within a neighboring target cell directly at handover initiation based on pre established information on the radio centric environment including identification and estimation of narrow beams in the system. This information typically includes identification of narrow beams within the considered neighbor area as well as information on estimated performance of the identified narrow beams.

In a preferred exemplary embodiment of the invention a representation of the pre established information is stored in a table on the network side and a table look up is performed to find a suitable narrow target beam. Preferably the table is built based on measurements of the radio centric environment including identification and estimation of narrow beams at deployment of the cellular communication system.

For example at system deployment the radio centric environment is measured to identify the various narrow beams of the system. A specific goal is to maintain information e.g. in a table of neighboring narrow beams so that the problem of handover can be reduced. This information or table is preferably maintained on the network side e.g. in the radio network controller or an equivalent unit. By using a table of nearest best neighbors it may in fact be possible to perform direct handover between narrow beams. As indicated it is preferable to select a narrow target beam among those narrow beams within the considered neighbor area that have the highest estimated performance. If desired the table may subsequently be adaptively updated after deployment based on handover experiences during run time and or updated at deployment changes.

This means for example that a table on the network side can be used to store information on the best estimate and to be used for look up of the best narrow beam transmission when allocating a new radio link at handover. It is also possible to perform a search among the narrow beams within the neighbor cells to find a suitable narrow target beam.

Preferably a target cell in the considered neighbor area is selected based on quality measurements in accordance with normal procedures and a narrow target beam within the target cell is selected by using the pre established narrow beam information and more particularly information of narrow beams within the selected target cell.

In a preferred exemplary embodiment of the invention it is suggested to use a table database or similar information structure on the network side such as in the RNC to facilitate the handover function. At system deployment the radio centric environment is measured implying that the various beams of the system are identified and estimated and a table of this environment is then preferably built. The idea here is to maintain a pre established table of neighboring beams so that the problem of handover can be diminished. As described above one of the main problems with e.g. WCDMA is that the narrow beams of a neighboring cell are not known to the system network or UE . Hence a handover from one narrow beam in one cell to a narrow beam in an adjacent cell is not possible nor is a handover to from a narrow beam to from a cell covering beam. But if a table or similar information structure of nearest neighbors is kept e.g. in the RNC as suggested by the invention this might in fact be possible even if measurements are solely based on the P CPICH or equivalent pilot signal.

In the following the invention will be described with reference to the particular example of . Although the invention will primarily be described with reference to W CDMA systems the invention is generally applicable to handover in cellular radio communication systems.

When the system should perform a handover HO the relevant radio network controller RNC will issue Radio Link Setup Request to the considered Node B base station in WCDMA terminology 2 . This message contains information on how the new radio link should be configured in the Node B.

Preferably the system reaction to Active Set Update events i.e. the addition Add of a new RBS to the UE s current Active Set is modified. The state of the art solution simply consists in adding to the Active Set the cell that corresponds to the P CPICH whose measure triggered the Handover command. In case this target cell is equipped with narrow Fixed Beams narrow multi beams the new link is established with the cell wide beam that carries P CPICH. Only upon completion of the Soft Handover procedure the RNC is able to initiate the Physical Channel Reconfiguration signaling procedure that leads to the allocation of the proper narrow beam as detected based on measurements on the new radio uplink .

Due to limitations in the 3GPP standard where the RNC can not order the RBS to perform a measurement on the uplink of a specific UE before handover completion the proper target narrow beam in the target cell cannot be measured or determined in advance. The estimation and establishment of narrow beam information is therefore an important part of the proposed procedure to enable selection of a suitable narrow target beam before the new radio link is set up.

An exemplary novel procedure referred to as narrow beam handover proposed as a part of the present invention includes selection of a target beam within the target cell directly at soft handover initiation as indicated in the signal and sequence diagrams of .

With reference to the SNRC detects that a radio link should be added to the active set and initiates narrow beam selection according to the invention. This normally means that the SRNC or equivalent physical or logical network unit consults a table database or similar information structure holding pre estimated information on narrow beams in the system. Preferably the information on narrow beams in the system is established at system deployment and optionally updated at deployment changes and or based on run time experiences. The SNRC sends a so called RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST to the DRNC including an indication of a selected narrow target beam. The DRNC basically performs admission control to see if there are any available radio resources. If the requested resources are available the DRNC forwards the RADIO LINK SETUP REQUEST to the relevant node B node B in this example and also decides on a set of control parameters such as uplink UL SIR target limits. Node B then allocates the requested resources allocating a radio link directly with the selected narrow target beam and reports successful radio resource allocation in a RADIO LINK SETUP RESPONSE to the DRNC. The Node B starts uplink UL reception. The DRNC sends a RADIO LINK SETUP RESPONSE back to the SRNC. Among other things the SRNC then initiates user plane establishment which normally involves setup of an Iur Iub or equivalent data transport bearer and binding to the Dedicated Channel DCH . Then Node B starts downlink DL transmission. The Radio Resource Control RRC Active Set Update procedure is then initiated normally meaning that the SRNC sends an Active Set Update message to the UE and the UE acknowledges with an Active Set Update Complete message. When Node B achieves uplink synchronization on the Uu interface it may notify the DRNC with a RADIO LINK RESTORE INDICATION message. The DRNC may in turn notify the SRNC.

According to the standards the Radio Resource Control RRC functionality also controls the items to be measured in the radio interface including the measurement period timing and reporting method by the UE. Measurement Initiation is a conventional procedure for setting measurement functions of the UE and Measurement Reporting is a conventional procedure for the UE to forward measurement results to the network. The RRC also handles power control and the downlink power control procedure including sending downlink DL power control requests to the relevant node Bs can be initiated by the SRNC any time after establishment of a radio link.

As previously mentioned a table or equivalent information structure may be used on the network side e.g. in the SRNC to store the best estimate s known at each time and to be used for lookup of best beam transmission when allocating the radio link. This means that the new serving radio link can be established directly with the selected target beam. In other words the proposed narrow beam handover solution means that the addition of the proper beam is completed after completion of the handover procedure towards the new cell and narrow beam. This is in clear contrast to the prior art where the radio link first has to be established with a cell wide beam and then after uplink measurements reconfigured onto a narrow beam.

In case of correct estimation of the target narrow beam the advantages of the proposed new procedure include 

Only in case of incorrect estimation the proper beam may have to be added after completion of the beam switch procedure to the proper narrow beam now detectable on the uplink. This is merely a fall back if the estimation of narrow beam fails.

In case of wrong estimation the downlink signal will be carried to the UE by a misdirected narrow beam there is no consequence on the uplink until a beam switch procedure is completed. During this phase the link could require more power with respect to the wide beam handover but will still only create interference in the limited area covered by the wrongly assigned narrow beam. The probability of loss of the connection in the downlink is also expected to increase however very limited increase with expected behavior going towards zero probability.

If the communication quality of the new radio link with the narrow target beam is deemed to be insufficient the radio link may thus be re configured onto the corresponding cell wide beam or another more suitable narrow target beam.

It may be beneficial to fall back to the wide beam handover procedure when better than random estimations are not available.

For example the handover measurements and signaling in WCDMA is based on the Primary Common PIlot CHannel P CPICH. This reference signal transmitted in every cell in the system can be viewed as the signal that defines the cell coverage in a WCDMA system. Since this signal needs to be the same in the whole cell certain problems arise when several narrow beams are used to cover a cell e.g. when beamforming is applied in the system. For the downlink coherent detection schemes a phase reference is required that has experienced the same propagation channel as the transmitted payload transmission. For this reason WCDMA supports Secondary Common Pilot Channels S CPICHs where each of these reference signals can be associated to a narrow beam cell portion in the 3GPP nomenclature transmission. If dedicated transmission is assigned to a UE via a narrow beam cell portion n the radio link is associated as well at RNC level to a specific S CPICH N.

Further the handover mechanism is conventionally based solely on quality measurements on the P CPICH. The UE is constantly measuring the quality of the pilot from neighboring cells and this is reported to the radio network controller RNC . The RNC is communicating to the UEs information on which neighbors to monitor via a limited size neighbor list.

From the P CPICH measurements reported for the neighbor list the RNC or similar network unit may decide to add a link from a certain cell to the active set if certain requirements are fulfilled e.g. the quality of the pilot signal is above a certain threshold. Also the opposite when the quality of a pilot signal drop below a certain limit this radio link is dropped. In this way the UE can maintain a radio connection when it travels through the cellular layout of a system.

Based on the current active cell set the RNC may thus select a target cell from the P CPICH measurements reported for the neighbor list. The RNC can then select a suitable narrow target beam within that target cell based on pre established narrow beam information e.g. obtained from system deployment measurements. Alternatively the RNC can jointly select target cell and target beam based on information on the active cell set for example by performing a more or less exhaustive search among the narrow beams within the neighbor cells to find a suitable high performance narrow target beam.

In another exemplary embodiment of the invention the build up of a best estimate handover facilitating table in the RNC use the knowledge based on the following input for HO from each cell 

Example of Narrow Beam HO Table Build Up Based on Estimation of Radio Centric Environment at System Deployment

As a baseline at system deployment the radio centric environment can normally be measured for identifying all entities in the table. That is the different beams of the system are identified and a table of this environment is built to create a baseline estimation of best beam for the deployment. This can and should normally be repeated every time the deployment is upgraded e.g. with new sites cells and other changes of site parameters as well as power levels and other parameters.

Example of Updating Estimation by Adaptively Building the Narrow Beam Ho Table Based on Experiences During Runtime.

An optional updating method is also disclosed here based on adaptively building the table from experiences during runtime. The goal here is to maintain and update the table of neighboring beams so that the management of handover can be gradually improved over time as well as responsive to changes.

It has been recognized that the correlation between cells and or narrow beams for the current connection and proper beam in the target cell is high. In other words it can be expected that UEs connected to a specific set of cells or their respective narrow beams when these cells are also equipped with Fixed Beams are roughly located in a specific portion of the covered area and will therefore move to a specific portion of the target cell in turn corresponding with high probability to a specific target narrow beam.

In order to quantify the above relations a database may be built including the number of occurrences of every specific completed beam handover event executed according to the wide and or narrow beam handover procedures .

Obviously in case the target cell is not equipped with Fixed Beams antennas the normal handover procedure applies.

If the target cell is equipped with Fixed Beams antennas the number of occurrences corresponding to the completed handovers to the narrow beam of the target cell may be checked in the database for all cases where the current active set configuration was the same as in the examined case. Completed handover normally means a successful handover to a narrow beam including direct narrow beam handover handover to a narrow beam via first a wide beam and handover to a narrow beam via first an unsuccessful narrow beam handover.

When one of the target narrow beams is found with a significantly higher success probability much more occurrences in the database then that narrow beam is selected as target in the new cell.

If the probability associated with the different possible target narrow beams is roughly the same then one alternative can be to select the wide beam as target for the handover. This has the aim of reducing the number of wrong narrow beam target selection that could lead to an unusable downlink connection.

The estimated performance of a narrow beam may thus be based on previous success rate of handover to the narrow beam under similar handover circumstances. In an exemplary embodiment information on estimated performance for each narrow beam may then be maintained in a special database and used for updating a more practical handover table that only contains the best estimates.

As mentioned above the new updated estimation should preferably be used for updating the table only when it is significant. Possible factors to be evaluated when deciding whether the estimation is significant include 

As previously explained the narrow beam table can be established at system deployment for example by means of the operation and management system OMS which provides the necessary information on the radio centric environment as input for building the narrow beam table . The table may of course be updated at deployment changes.

The RNC also comprises an optional database that includes narrow beam performance information acquired during run time. This database can also be used for updating the narrow beam table. Alternatively the database may in itself act as a narrow beam table and the handover controller may interface directly with the database for selecting a suitable narrow target beam.

Naturally a number of other variations and or extensions exist as understood by those skilled in the art.

Briefly it is an object of the present invention to facilitate the handover function in WCDMA and generally applicable in other systems as well to allow for handover from to narrow beam and narrow beam to narrow beam directly without the need to back off and transmit over the entire cell at handover. This will substantially improve the possibility to secure and achieve the system capacity coverage gains promised by narrow beam smart antennas adaptive antennas fixed beams techniques.

The embodiments described above are merely given as examples and it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Further modifications changes and improvements which retain the basic underlying principles disclosed and claimed herein are within the scope of the invention.

