---

title: Queuing of instant messaging requests
abstract: A method and system for routing or directing calls in a call center, service center, or help desk environment includes a versatile queuing mechanism that supports instant messaging or electronic communications or mail in support of received calls taken by the help desk. The queuing mechanism provides predefined categories of different areas of expertise, automatic distribution to different skills levels of escalating expertise based on each request, multiple experts for each category monitoring the queues for new requests, and, as the requests come in, the experts can manually pull the new requests or be given the requests automatically. For each request, there is automated control of the number of instant messages any one expert is allowed to handle. The expert resolution can be used as feedback in the entire support process for evaluation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07895330&OS=07895330&RS=07895330
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07895330
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061020
---
The present invention relates in general to information help desks and more particularly relates to managing large numbers of instant messaging requests for information from experts within a help center.

Call receiving centers that provide information and assistance to callers are commonly referred to as help desks . Help desks assist callers in troubleshooting problems arising from things such as installation and usage of software and hardware. Because help desks are an effective way to alleviate customer frustration and also lower the rate of product return many corporations provide help desk support to their customers via a toll free number.

Help desks are manned by a number of human operators that answer user calls and provide assistance to the callers. The operators are usually given special training that allow them to provide help in the areas that users are likely to need help in. These operators are commonly referred to as experts . It can logically be anticipated however that an expert will not be able to answer every question that a user may have. For this reason many help desks are set up so that experts are able to turn to others that are better equipped to provide help in a certain area that the caller is seeking help in. This may be done by routing the user directly to another expert sometimes called a second level expert via for instance transferring the call or by consulting the second level expert for help in fulfilling the user s needs.

One way to consult the second level expert is to place the caller on hold and for the first expert to directly call the second expert. This is unpleasant to the caller that is placed on hold as they are made to wait alone. A second option is to use an instant messenger to send instant messages . The instant messenger provides a form of real time communication between two or more people based on typed text which is conveyed via computers connected over a network. In some help desks an instant messaging system is used for communication between a customer and an expert within the company or alternatively can be used internally between a first level expert to a second level expert. The instant messaging system works with a web browser or other software and allows a customer to speak to an expert by typing his questions or comments. The expert can answer back by typing into a user interface on the expert s computer. Used internally an instant messaging system allows the first level expert to remain on the line either through IM or phone call with the user while simultaneously communicating with a second level expert often times without the user realizing the communication is taking place.

Because it is impossible to predict what questions a caller may have or the number of callers calling a help desk at a given time it is not efficient to have first level experts depending on chance to find a second level expert available for consultation each time the first level expert has a question. Furthermore experts in the same field naturally have differing amounts of knowledge on specific subjects. Therefore one expert may be better suited to answer a question than is another expert. For these reasons and more a system that provides only the ability for a first level user to connect directly to single second level user is inefficient and in many cases ineffective.

Briefly in accordance with the present invention disclosed is a method and apparatus for managing help desk requests within a help center through use of a novel messaging queue. The method includes receiving from a first level expert client information processing terminal in a help desk an instant message query that includes a request for information and placing the instant message query in a support queue that is viewable while in the support queue to a plurality of second level experts within the help desk.

In accordance with another feature of the present invention the method also includes receiving from the first level expert client information processing terminal a call support category of the instant message query.

In accordance with yet another feature of the present invention the method includes a step of placing the instant message query in a sub queue within the support queue based on the call support category of the instant message query wherein each sub queue has a plurality of second level experts associated therewith.

In accordance with still another feature of the present invention the method includes selecting by a support manager application one of the plurality of second level experts to receive the instant message query and automatically forwarding the instant message query from the queue to the selected second level expert.

In accordance with an additional feature of the present invention the method includes monitoring by the support manager application a number of queries being handled by each expert in the plurality of second level experts and comparing the number of queries being handled by each of the second level experts to a maximum number of queries to be handled.

In accordance with another feature of the present invention the method includes the step of accepting from one of the plurality of second level experts a request for delivery of the query.

In accordance with a further feature of the present invention the method included the step of monitoring by a support manager application queries being handled by the one of the plurality of second level experts and routing requests to one of the plurality of second level experts based on either a number of queries being handled by the one of the plurality of second level experts a duration of at least one current session for the one of the plurality of second level experts or a level or expertise of the one of the plurality of second level experts.

In accordance with another feature of the present invention the method includes the step of creating a log of the query and a second level expert s response to the query.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the instant messaging server for communicating with experts includes an input for receiving an instant message query from a phone operator and at least one instant message support queue for storing the instant message query wherein the instant message query is viewable while in the support queue to a plurality of experts using instant messengers.

In accordance with another feature of the present invention the instant messaging server also includes a plurality of categorized queues available for submitting the instant message query.

In accordance with one more feature of the present invention each category of the queue has a plurality of second level experts associated therewith.

In accordance with another feature of the present invention a processor automatically forwards from the instant message queue the query to an expert selected from the plurality of second level experts.

In accordance with one additional feature of the present invention the processor monitors the queries being handled by experts in the plurality of second level experts and prevents the automatically forwarding of the query to a second expert in the plurality of second level experts based on either a number of queries being handled by the one of the plurality of second level experts a duration of at least one current session for the one of the plurality of second level experts or a level or expertise of the one of the plurality of second level experts.

As required detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed herein however it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the invention which can be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further the terms and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting but rather to provide an understandable description of the invention.

The terms a or an as used herein are defined as one or more than one. The term plurality as used herein is defined as two or more than two. The term another as used herein is defined as at least a second or more. The terms including and or having as used herein are defined as comprising i.e. open language . The term coupled as used herein is defined as connected although not necessarily directly and not necessarily mechanically. The terms program software application and the like as used herein are defined as a sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system. A program computer program or software application may include a subroutine a function a procedure an object method an object implementation an executable application an applet a servlet a source code an object code a shared library dynamic load library and or other sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system.

The present invention according to an embodiment overcomes problems with the prior art by providing a system and method for allowing help desk phone operators to request support in one of a number of categories by placing instant message requests into queues that are monitored by experts in those categories. The invention is carried out in one embodiment by layering on top of the instant messaging software a queuing system that allows experts to grab requests from a support queue as well as put requests back if they are unable to answer the question.

The help desk is a communication interface between a corporation or other entity and its customers clients or anyone associated with that entity. Users are able to contact the help desk to receive help information advice and more for resolving issues solving problems and gaining knowledge. For instance a software company may provide a help desk staffed with telephone operators trained in aspects of the software sold by that company to answer customer s calls and assist the customers with questions related to installation and use of the company s software products. The help desk is often times very effective in relieving customer frustration.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the help desk includes a plurality of first level experts . The plurality of first level experts are the first level of service to callers. The first level experts may answer the incoming calls themselves or they may receive the call from an operator answering the phone. Regardless of how a first level expert is connected to a caller the first level expert engages in a dialog with the caller in an effort to provide the caller with information or to assist the caller in solving a problem.

If it becomes apparent that a first level expert is not able to fully service the caller any of the first level experts are able to request assistance from one or more of a plurality of second level experts . In one embodiment the second level experts are specially trained in specific categories such as hardware software accounting and others. Consulting these second level experts can be of great benefit to the caller and to the first level expert in expediting a solution to the caller s particular issue. For instance if a caller is expressing to a first level expert that they are having difficulty installing software and it is determined that the caller is using an outdated operating system a second level expert that has special knowledge of that outdated operating system may be of great benefit to solving the problem. In this case the first level expert handling the call will want to solicit advice from the second level expert.

To avoid disruption to the conversation between the caller and the first level expert the first level expert through use of the present invention is able to avoid placing the caller on hold but still communicate with the second level user . This communication between the first level user and a second level user is accomplished through instant messaging. More specifically any of the first level experts are able to utilize an instant messaging system shown in to communicate with the second level experts by for example one or more instant messages that can be placed within one or more queues 

The operating system platform under control of the controller processor manages resources such as the data stored in data memory the scheduling of tasks and processes the operation of the instant messaging client in the program memory . The operating system platform also manages a graphical display interface that according to the present example comprises the screen on the display monitor . Information is displayed via the screen for visual output of information to a user of the computer system . A user input interface comprises the keyboard and the mouse for receiving user input from a user of the computer system . A communication network interface acts as an input output and allows for communication with the network link . Additionally the operating system platform also manages many other basic tasks of the computer system in a manner well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The controller processor unit manages a communication network interface for communicating with the network link and a computer readable medium drive . Additionally the controller processor unit also manages many other basic tasks of the computer system in a manner well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Each expert computer system may include among other things a computer readable medium and means for reading and or writing to the computer readable medium . The computer readable medium allows a computer system to read data instructions messages or message packets and other computer readable information from the computer readable medium. The computer readable medium for example may include non volatile memory such as Floppy ROM Flash memory Disk drive memory CD ROM and other permanent storage. It is useful for example for transporting information such as data and computer instructions between computer systems. Furthermore the computer readable medium may comprise computer readable information in a transitory state medium such as a network link and or a network interface including a wired network or a wireless network that allow a computer to read such computer readable information.

Referring now to an instant message server is illustrated according to the present invention that includes a controller processor unit which processes instructions performs calculations and manages the flow of messages and other information through the instant message server . Additionally the controller processor is communicatively coupled with program memory . Included within program memory is an instant messaging manager that includes a plurality of queues which will be discussed in detail below . The memory also includes an operating system platform and glue software . Glue software may include drivers stacks and low level application programming interfaces API s and provides basic functional components for use by the operating system platform and by compatible applications that run on the operating system platform for managing communications with resources and processes in the instant message manager .

The operating system platform under the control of the controller processor manages resources such as the data stored in data memory the scheduling of tasks and processes the operation of the instant messaging manager in the program memory . A communication network interface allows for communicating with the network link . Additionally the operating system platform also manages many other basic tasks of the instant message server in a manner well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

The controller processor unit manages resources such as the data stored in data memory the scheduling of tasks and the operation of the instant messaging manager including instant messaging queues in the program memory . The controller processor unit may also manage a communication network interface for communicating with the network link and a computer readable medium drive . Additionally the controller processor unit also manages many other basic tasks of the instant message server in a manner well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Each instant message server may include among other things one or more additional communicatively coupled computers user interface devices such as a keyboard or a display monitor and at least a computer readable medium . The instant message server preferably includes means for reading and or writing to the computer readable medium .

The message server may also include an ephemeral storage system not shown . This allows the message server to keep its own log of the messages in a discussion. The log can later used as feedback for the entire support process and for training and evaluation purposes.

When the first level expert selects a category for the message in step a category identifier is included as part of a unique message identifier ID . The category identifier helps to ensure that the message is sent to an expert that is knowledgeable in that area. The ID also includes an address of the first level expert that submitted the message. The address and can be used by the second level expert to communicate directly back to the submitting first level expert. In one embodiment the expert does not have to select a category and instead the message is identified as a general or given no category identification at all.

Each of the queues in the instant messenger client on the instant messenger manager shown in are storage locations for storing instant messages. In one embodiment of the present invention each support queue corresponds to a category of messages. For instance support queue corresponds to operating system related messages support queue corresponds to installation messages support queue corresponds to hardware questions support queue corresponds to billing questions etc. The instant message manager may also include queues without categories that are general storage areas for messages with no particular category assigned to them. As the messages arrive at the messaging manager the ID is checked in step for information pertaining to the category of the message. In step each message is then placed into the appropriate support queue based on the category of the message and the process at the first level expert terminal temporarily ends in step .

In one embodiment illustrated in the process flow chart of the messaging manager monitors the number of messages being handled at any given time by a second level expert. Second level experts can handle multiple messages at any given time however if the second level expert attempts to take on too many messages the expert will not be able to respond quickly to each one potentially causing user frustration. To prevent this a maximum number of messages value is assigned to each expert so that no more than that maximum number of messages can be handled by that expert at any given time.

The message monitoring process begins at step and moves directly to step where the instant message manager receives a request from a second level expert for a new message. The instant message manager in step checks a record stored in memory to determine the number of messages already being handled by the second level expert. If the number of messages currently being handled is below a maximum number step a new message is sent to the requesting second level expert in step and a record of that message is stored in memory . If the maximum number of messages has already been reached a message indicating the same will be sent to the requesting second level expert in step and the flow continues to a further step where the instant message manager waits for another request for message handling from a second level expert.

The second level expert deals with each message by communicating a response using the second level expert computer system back to the submitting first level expert computer system in step . The second level expert then communicates in step to the instant messaging manager that the message is dealt with and closed out. In step the instant messaging manager subtracts one from the number of messages currently being handled by that expert. Each time a closed out message is noted the second level expert is allowed to receive another message. The instant messaging manager in step then waits for another request from the second level expert. Once a request is received the flow returns back to step .

In another embodiment illustrated in the process flow chart of the messaging manager which can be a person or an automated process running on a computer system sends messages to second level experts automatically based on their availability. In this embodiment the message manager acts like a load balancer that routes requests to the second level experts based on any of a number of factors including current load duration of each current session for that expert e.g. if they are long there might be a problem max allowed sessions which could be based on level of expertise of the second level expert etc.

The process begins at step and moves directly to step where the instant messaging manager looks at a first second level expert to determine the number of messages being handled by that expert. If the instant messaging manager determines in step that the number of messages being handled by that expert is below a threshold number the instant messaging manager forwards a message to that second level expert in step and increments a counter for that expert. The forwarding may be based on categories of the messages and a category selected by the second level expert . The IM manager then moves on to the next expert in step .

If in step it is determined that the number of messages currently being handled by the second level expert exceeds the threshold number the instant messaging manager in step will move on to the next second level expert without sending a new message to the first second level expert . The flow moves back up to step .

Returning back to the flow of in step the second level expert receives a message which he can view in the support queue with an interface similar to that shown in shown on the display of the second level expert computer system . The expert will read the messages and in step . If the expert determines that he is able to take the appropriate action with regard to the issue presented in the message he does so in step . The appropriate action is usually answering a question or submitting requested information back to the requesting first level expert. The message may also be an action item that is to be taken by the second level expert such as resetting user passwords crediting user accounts causing items to be mailed to the user and many others. The second level expert is able to communicate directly back to the first level expert to resolve the issue. Once the task is complete in step the second level computer system sends a message complete message to the instant message manager . The process ends at step . If however the expert determined that he was not able to resolve the issue presented in the message the expert escalates the issue in step to another expert. After the expert escalates the issue the process ends for the second level expert at step .

As should now be clear the present invention is a business process for support of the help desk operations using instant messaging. shows a block diagram of a message queuing system according to embodiments of the present invention as described above. The system includes a plurality of customers each communicating directly over a phone network with a separate one of a plurality of first level experts . The first level experts are communicatively coupled to a set of queues each corresponding to a separate category and are able to submit message to each of the queues. The queues are accessible to second level experts which may receive the messages to help resolve the issues corresponding to the messages. As is shown in multiple experts may be assigned to a single support queue while a single expert may be assigned to another queue. Multiple experts for each category monitor the queues for new requests or be given the requests automatically. There can be an automated system to avoid over flow of one expert with too many requests at one time. In addition if an expert finds that he cannot handle a taken message the expert can place the message on a next tier support queue that is available for other experts to pull from in order to solve the issue. One embodiment of the present invention allows the users or customers to directly interact with an instant messenger and use instant messenger categories via a web site to circumvent the phone operator and instant message directly the help desk and place messages in categorized queues accessible to experts or to communicate directly with experts.

The present invention can be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. A system according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention can be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software could be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention can also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program means or computer program in the present context mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and b reproduction in a different material form. The invention is not limited to instant messaging as any particular application and can include other modes of electronic communication such as email.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been disclosed those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that changes can be made to the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is not to be restricted therefore to the specific embodiments and it is intended that the appended claims cover any and all such applications modifications and embodiments within the scope of the present invention.

