---

title: Systems and methods for recording data
abstract: Included are embodiments for recording data from a communication. A least one embodiment includes a system for recording data from a communication. Embodiments of a system include a controller component configured to receive control data associated with a communication and a first switching component configured to receive media data associated with the communication from a first communications device via a first receive port. Similarly, some embodiments include a recording component coupled to the connection line, the recording component configured to receive at least a portion of the media data from the connection line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08130926&OS=08130926&RS=08130926
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08130926
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061208
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 608 340 entitled Systems and Methods for Recording filed on the same day as this application which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 608 350 entitled Recording in a Distributed Environment filed on the same day as this application which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to recording at least a portion of a communication. More specifically this application is related to recording at least a portion of a communication in a communications network.

In many communications environments recording of communication data is desired. More specifically oftentimes users and or organizations desire to capture data related to communications associated with one or more communications devices and or other endpoints. While recording from a single communications device may be useful users and organizations with a plurality of communications devices may desire to record data associated with two or more of the communications devices. Additionally users and organizations may desire to implement automatic recording of communication data such that a user need not actively initiate recording of a communication. As these users and organizations may desire increased functionality in their recording services passively recording from each subscriber line via separate recording devices may prove unduly costly and inefficient. Similarly actively recording communications may prove difficult due to reliability issues associated with a recording device.

Included are embodiments for recording data from a communication. A least one embodiment includes a system for recording data from a communication. Embodiments of a system include a controller component configured to receive control data associated with a communication and a first switching component configured to receive media data associated with the communication from a first communications device via a first receive port. Similarly some embodiments include a recording component coupled to the connection line the recording component configured to receive at least a portion of the media data from the connection line.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of this disclosure will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

Similarly communications devices and are coupled electrically communicatively and or physically to SSP . Communications device is coupled to SSP and communications device is coupled to SSP . Additionally SSP is coupled SSP and SSP as well as Signal Transfer Point STP and STP . SSP and SSP are also coupled to STP and . SSP is coupled to SSP . SSP is coupled to STP and . Similarly STP and STP are coupled to STP and

One should note that SSP may include any of a plurality of different components to provide the desired functionality. More specifically as a nonlimiting example at least one of the embodiments disclosed herein may substitute the SSP for any switching component whether operating in a Time Division Multiplexing TDM environment and or in an Internet Protocol IP environment.

STPs may be configured as packet switches for control data associated with a communications session between users on communications devices . More specifically STPs may be configured to receive control data from SSP and facilitate communication of the control data to a desired destination. As discussed above STPs may be configured to operate via the SS7 protocol and or other protocols.

Additionally STP and STP are also coupled to Signal Control Point SCP and SCP . Similarly STP and STP are coupled to SCP and . In operation SCPs may be configured to store data that may be utilized for call processing. More specifically SCPs may be queried to determine how a communication is handled. As a nonlimiting example one or more SCPs may be consulted to provide the translation of a toll free telephone number and or other address to an actual phone number and facilitate billing of the owner of the toll free number for the communication.

In operation the network of may be configured to facilitate a communication among communications devices. As a nonlimiting example if a user on communications device may desire a communication with a user on communications device . In such a scenario a user may initiate the communication by dialing an address e.g. telephone number and or other address . The SSP may receive data associated with communication device and data associated with communications device . SSP may determine a desired path such as a desired trunk to facilitate communication of media between users on communications devices and . Media data associated with the communication may be sent from SSP to SSP and then to SSP for delivery to communications device . Similarly control data associated with the communication may be sent from SSP to STP . STP may send the control data to STP which can send the control data to SSP

One should also note that while SSPs are illustrated as a single component one should note that in at least one embodiment SSP represents a plurality of components associated with a call center. As discussed in more detail below a call center may include a local SSP a call control server and or other data. Additionally while some embodiments may be configured form implementation in a Time Division Multiplexing TDM environment other environments are also contemplated.

The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the SSP a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The volatile and nonvolatile memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and or nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. One should note that the volatile and nonvolatile memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor . Additionally volatile and nonvolatile memory can include routing logic recording logic presence logic and or an operating system . The operating system may be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services.

A system component and or module embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the volatile and nonvolatile memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system .

The Input Output devices that may be coupled to system I O Interface s may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse scanner microphone etc. Further the Input Output devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display speaker etc. Finally the Input Output devices may further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a media duplication system a router etc.

Additionally included are one or more network interfaces for facilitating communication with one or more other devices. More specifically network interface may include any component configured to facilitate a connection with another device. While in some embodiments among others the SSP can include a network interface that includes a Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA card also abbreviated as PC card for receiving a wireless network card however this is a nonlimiting example. Other configurations can include the communications hardware within the computing device such that a wireless network card is unnecessary for communicating wirelessly. Similarly some embodiments may include network interfaces for communicating via a wired connection. Such interfaces may be configured with Universal Serial Bus USB interfaces serial ports and or other interfaces.

Additionally included in the nonlimiting example of is a switching component . The switching component may be configured to facilitate communication among two or more communications devices . While one or more of the switch ports may be configured as a receiving port one or more of the switch ports may be configured as a transmit port. Similarly while the switching component may be configured to allow an operator to determine the receiving and or transmit ports that are utilized for a particular communication SSP may be configured with logic to determine which switch ports are utilized.

If SSP includes a personal computer workstation or the like the software in the volatile and nonvolatile memory may further include a basic input output system BIOS omitted for simplicity . The BIOS is a set of software routines that initialize and test hardware at startup start the operating system and support the transfer of data among the hardware devices. The BIOS is stored in ROM so that the BIOS can be executed when the SSP is activated.

When SSP is in operation the processor may be configured to execute software stored within the volatile and nonvolatile memory to communicate data to and from the volatile and nonvolatile memory and to generally control operations of the client device pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part may be read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

One should note that while the description with respect to includes an SSP as a single component this is a nonlimiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment SSP can include a plurality of servers personal computers and or other devices. Similarly while routing logic recording logic and presence logic are each illustrated in as single software components this is also a nonlimiting example. In at least one embodiment presence logic may include one or more components embodied in software hardware and or firmware. Similarly routing logic and or recording logic may include one or more logical components. Additionally while routing logic presence logic and recording logic are depicted as residing on a single computing device such as recorder controller may include one or more devices presence logic may include one or more components residing on one or more different devices.

Similarly while the discussion with regard to refers to a SSP similar elements may also be included in other network components discussed herein. More specifically a recorder communications device recorder controller call control server SCP STP and or other network elements may include similar components and or functionality. Additionally while components illustrated in are illustrated as being part of an SSP this is also a nonlimiting example as other components may include the logic and or functionality described in .

Additionally control data may be sent to STP which may be formatted in an SS7 protocol as illustrated with a small dashed line. STP may send the control data to STP . Control data may then be sent to SSP . SSP can then facilitate the communication by sending the media data to communications device

As also illustrated in the nonlimiting example of a recorder which may be embodied as a hardware component a software component and or a hybrid hardware software component may be passively coupled to the subscriber line between SSP and communications device . While such a configuration may provide recording functionality to communications device such a configuration may prove unable to adequately provide the desired recording functionality. More specifically as the recorder may be configured to passively record data from a point between SSP and SSP the recorder in may be unable to receive control data that would indicate control signals such as signals that determine whether to record a particular communication signals that determine when to start recording when to end recording and or other control data.

Additionally SSP sends media data to recorder which captures the data and sends data to SSP . Similarly STP sends control data to recorder which utilizes the control data to determine whether and or when to begin and end recording. Recorder sends the control data back to STP . SSP sends the media data to communications device

Similarly some embodiments may be configured such that SSP sends media data to recorder which is configured to interface directly with communications device . Regardless the embodiment of illustrates a configuration where the recorder actively records at least a portion of the communication. More specifically as illustrated in this nonlimiting example recorder is a party to the communication and or is a pathway for the media data to travel between the communications devices . As such these embodiments may rely on the recorder to facilitate the communication as opposed to simply recording the communication .

Additionally media data may be sent from SSP to SSP . As illustrated SSP may be configured such that one or more of receiver switch ports are coupled to one or more transmit switch ports . Thus media data is received from SSP via a first receive switch port . This data is output via a first transmit switch port . The first transmit switch port is coupled to a second receive switch such that the media data is sent along this path. The media data is then output to communications device via a second transmit switch port .

In the configuration of the recorder may be passively coupled to the line between the first transmit switch port and the second receive switch port . More specifically as illustrated in this nonlimiting example recorder is not a party to the communication and or does not facilitate the communication. As recorder is passively coupled to the link between the transmit switch port and the receive switch port reliability of the recorder is not an issue with regard to quality of the communication. Additionally the recorder may receive control data via local CCS . Such a configuration provides the desired control data to facilitate the recording while maintaining a passive recording configuration with regard to the media data.

Additionally one should note that while a single recorder is illustrated in some embodiments may be configured such that SSP is coupled to a plurality of recorders and or a recorder bank. In such a configuration SSP and or other components may be configured with logic to determine a desired recording for the present communication. Additionally some embodiments may be coupled to a load balancer and or link protector to facilitate routing of the media data to a desired recorder according to current network conditions.

Similar to the configuration from an IP gateway may be coupled to an SSP for receiving media data and or control data. The IP gateway may also be coupled to an IP gateway . Additionally a network may be passively coupled to a line between the IP gateway and the IP gateway . The network which may include the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN and or other network may be configured to send data to recorder bank for recording. The recorder bank may include one or more recorders and . Additionally a recorder controller link protector and or load balancer not shown may be coupled to the recorder bank to facilitate efficient recording.

Additionally media data may be sent from a communications device to an SSP . The SSP may send at least a portion of the media data to an SSP . The SSP may send data to a LAN switch which may send at least a portion of the media data to a LAN switch . The LAN switch can send at least a portion of the media data back to the SSP . Additionally the IP recorder may passively connect with a communications line between the LAN switch and the LAN switch . From this passive connection the IP recorder may receive media data for recording.

As discussed with reference to the embodiment of may facilitate recording via an active connection of the recorder with the communication. As such a configuration may allow the receipt of control data associated with the communication such a configuration may rely on the recorder to facilitate the communication. As such if the recorder malfunctions the integrity of the communication may suffer.

As discussed with respect to embodiments disclosed herein may facilitate passive recording with a distributed recorder configuration. By utilizing a distributed recorder configuration recorders efficiency may be maximized by utilizing routing logic that distributes recording in a substantially equal manner. Additionally depending on the particular embodiment a controller component which may include an SCP may include an SSP node an Automatic Call Distributor ACD Private Branch Exchange PBX and or other components.

Additionally a call center may include but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers and speech analytics for example.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

The embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. At least one embodiment disclosed herein is implemented in software and or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware as in an alternative embodiment embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

One should note that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and operation of a possible implementation of software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order and or not at all. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

One should note that any of the programs listed herein which can include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured mediums.

One should also note that conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more particular embodiments or that one or more particular embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

