---

title: GrannySnap architecture
abstract: Systems and methods for facilitating photo completion are provided. According to one embodiment, a system is provided including a hand held device, an application running on the hand held device, and a printing system. The hand held device includes the capability to both capture and transmit digital photos. The application provides the hand held device with hyper-simplified photo capture and delivery. In one embodiment, the application defaults a number of parameters that can be configured on the hand held device, such as the target, the photo review mechanism, the presentation method. These defaults can be set (reset) directly in the application or overridden in the system post transmission processing. In one embodiment, the printing system may control the schedule of publication. For example, the printing system may print received digital photos immediately, the next morning, on a periodic basis, or after receiving eMail confirmation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07650069&OS=07650069&RS=07650069
owner: CaringFamily, LLC
number: 07650069
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060505
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 678 349 filed on May 6 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes. This application is related to the subject matter of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 971 916 and 10 972 000 both filed on Oct. 23 2004 and both of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Contained herein is material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent disclosure by any person as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all rights to the copyright whatsoever. Copyright 2005 2006 CaringFamily LLC

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to purpose driven computing and lifestyle adapted communications solutions and in particular to photo completion.

Families are frequently located far away from one another including their aging loved ones. Technology including personal computers and the Internet are natural mechanism used by younger members of the family to stay in touch. However the older a person is the less likely they are able or interested in owning and using a personal computer the Internet or email.

The mismatch in the rate of technology adoption between younger and older cohorts of the population makes it increasingly difficult for families to cultivate and sustain the level of communication with their elders that is required to help the elders avoid loneliness and isolation.

Existing mechanisms for connecting non computer users into the electronic life of their friends and families such as MSN TV formerly WebTV and EarthLink MailStation are plagued with problems that lead to non acquisition abandonment or ineffective use of the system chosen. Consequently alternatives to complicated personal computers and pseudo computers for elders and similarly situated people are needed to provide them with means of communicating via email.

Similarly camera phones and digital cameras are approaching ubiquity with all demographics except the elderly. Transmission downloading and printing digital photos taken with these and other hand held devices is complicated and requires several post photo steps and typically pre photo configuration steps as well. As a result many digital photos remain in digital form on flash memory sticks and are not widely shared with friends and family.

Systems and methods are described for facilitating photo completion. According to one embodiment a system is provided including a hand held device an application running on the hand held device and a printing system. The hand held device includes the capability to both capture and transmit digital photos. The application provides the hand held device with hyper simplified e.g. one button photo capture and delivery and immediately returns the camera to a state in which it can perform another photo taking transmission event. In one embodiment the application defaults a number of parameters that can be configured on the hand held device such as the target e.g. eMail address the photo review mechanism e.g. Direct Hold for review Review before send the presentation method e.g. collage . . . . These defaults can be set reset directly in the application or overridden in the system post transmission processing.

In one embodiment the printing system may control the schedule of publication. For example the printing system may print received digital photos immediately the next morning on a periodic basis or after receiving eMail confirmation. The printing system may also optionally set reminders e.g. send eMail to offer additional personalization before delivery and set defaults for printing of various information e.g. sender time stamp location stamp think GPS with location naming service e.g. the Zoo pre packaged message . . . etc. .

According to one embodiment a publication switch a system and method is provided for controlling the instructions for unattended printing of eMails. Various processing methods may be applied to an eMail header including the To address portion and or the title that direct eMail processing to a configurable parsing mechanism that establishes specific modifications for printing the eMail at a digital mailbox. Further the configuration may be modifiable by the sender as managed through their caregroup website for the specific printing device i.e. mailbox being targeted. Distinct instructions may then be associated with distinct eMail addresses or arguments sent in the eMail address or in the message header.

According to one embodiment a joint payment method which facilitates multiple caregroup members to manage the automated payment of a continuing service by i gaining commitment of a primary buyer and ii optionally gaining additional member payer commitments to cover a portion of the typically monthly service fees that is then deducted from the primary buyer commitment.

According to one embodiment a method is provided for mechanically assuring the orientation of paper to a printing or scanning device. Custom paper is provided with notching matched to a simple physical paper loading constraint that naturally forces the orientation of sheets of paper to a specific side and orientation. The matching physical notch constraint can be used on input tray s and or scanning flatbeds.

According to one embodiment a method of monitoring logging and reporting the presence of paper in the printer output tray is provided. In one embodiment a process running remotely within a family private network service monitors the activity level of an elder end user of a digital mailbox appliance. For example if the elder doesn t respond by picking up digital mailbox appliance hard copy output an alert may be generated to check the elder for the onset of depression or some other condition. In some embodiments the family private network service may track even a delay in pickup. For example if the elder has a consistent habit of picking up inputs within an hour after they arrive a multi hour delay may be indicative of a potential problem.

According to one embodiment a method is provided that assures the convenient asynchronous processing and delivery of images to a remote client based software application. The software application i accepts image references e.g. local files of the appropriate file type URL s to remote files of the appropriate type which can be delivered to the application in a number of manners e.g. drag and drop to the application shortcut to the application user interface typed references . . . and ii manages the communications with a remote service e.g. a family private network service to upload the images in the background i.e. asynchronously with other user client applications . In one embodiment the method may be elaborated to manage typical errors in the bulk transmission of images to a remote application e.g. warning of image files previously uploaded or in process rejection and notification of image files exceeding certain known limits size . . . etc. .

In one embodiment a content derived addressing barcode may be used as a command to assign and or reassign a digital mailbox appliance to a specific caregroup. In one embodiment the content derived addressing barcode may be used as part of a method to facilitate installation reconfiguration and or relocation of a digital mailbox appliance. In one embodiment a scan me first page is use to set reset the owner of a digital mailbox appliance. Using such an install scan page allows a random digital mailbox appliance to be associated with an arbitrary caregroup by simply sending a scan of a piece of paper independently delivered to the installer. Thus a digital mailbox appliance can be associated with a room and if a new resident arrives a simple scan resets the mailbox to their usage.

Other features of embodiments of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description that follows.

Methods and systems are described to facilitate photo completion. According to one embodiment the distance from impulse photo to hard copy output of such photo is shortened by hyper simplifying the taking transmitting and printing photos of value thereby allowing these photos to be more broadly shared with family and friends.

According to one embodiment a digital mailbox system is provided to facilitate receipt and transmission of electronic communications without requiring the end user to have a personal computer. According to one embodiment a digital mailbox system facilitates receipt and transmission of electronic communications without requiring the end user to have a personal computer. The digital mailbox system includes a novel architecture through which the various interacting parties may use an electronic communication access system that suits their particular needs and technological comfort level thereby adding grace back to the lives of both the elder and their social support network. The novel architecture may provide various tools and applications to promote communications among members of a social support network. For example according to one embodiment collaborative and or individual publishing tools are provided via a website interface to enable collaborative and or individual development of a daily delivery of a digital publication such as a newsletter like publication or the like for communication to elders by friends caregivers family and volunteers. In one embodiment members of a social support network may select and or customize content for inclusion in the digital publication from various predefined data streams e.g. jokes business news global news local news sports news puzzles cartoons weather etc. based upon interests hobbies and or cognitive needs e.g. intellectual stimulation of the intended recipient. For example the kinds of material typical of newspaper syndicated features can be provided such as horoscope literary quote of the day on this day in history in your garden today and the like selected by the members of the elder s social support network to be appropriate to the elder s interests. In one embodiment members of a social support network may create or harvest existing family content such as digitized photos daily deliveries digitized art created by children a k a kid art and use it to create various compositions to share among one another and or the digital mailbox appliance user.

Meanwhile an elder may make use of a dedicated hardcopy device for sending and receiving electronic communications without the need for a computer keyboard or mouse. In this manner the novel architecture acts as a communications transformer by receiving electronic communications in one form from the originator of the communication and outputting the electronic communication in a form suitable for access by an intended recipient thereby facilitating communication to and from those disinclined or unable to use computers the internet and or home networks.

In one embodiment an application at times referred to herein as GrannySnap is provided for hand held devices such as camera phones that simplifies the taking transmitting and printing of photos. The overhead associated with sending an event photo to a friend or family member such as grandma is reduced by automating certain functions and managing control of the hand held device through a variety of configuration options that can be 1 performed asynchronously to the impulse to send and 2 can be completely ignored in the simplest default configuration.

According to one embodiment the GrannySnap application provides hyper simple e.g. one button picture taking and simplified configuration to target i.e. who or where to permit review and to set presentation.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form.

Embodiments of the present invention include various steps which will be described below. The steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software customer service personnel associated with a communication service provider caregroup members serving in a customer service role and or firmware.

Embodiments of the present invention may be provided as a computer program product which may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks compact disc read only memories CD ROMs and magneto optical disks ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Moreover embodiments of the present invention may also be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer to a requesting computer by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modem or network connection .

While according to one embodiment a digital mailbox system is described as a communication mechanism among families and elders other embodiments of the digital mailbox system are equally applicable to facilitating electronic communications to and from other groups of individuals such as developmentally disabled adults. Furthermore the communications may include unrelated individuals within a common social support network.

While for convenience embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to an Application Service Provider ASP model embodiments of the present invention are equally applicable to various other operational models. For example the systems and methods described herein may be deployed in accordance with a model in which the application is hosted internally by a organization and made accessible to various distributed locations of the organization.

Finally while for sake of illustration embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to camera phones embodiments of the present invention are equally applicable to various other hand held or mobile devices that are capable of capturing and transmitting digital photos such as a digital camera with wireless transmission capability.

The phrase administrating caregiver generally refers to a member of a caregroup that has certain administrative privileges within the communication system platform. In one embodiment administrating caregivers have access and permissions to operate a communications service dashboard. Administrating caregivers may have the ability to add or remove members to the caregroup update family data manage member viewing editing and notification permissions originate coaching prompts configure many of the VPN and digital mailbox appliance behaviors like time of elder s daily delivery default printing font etc. Caregroups may have one or more administrating caregivers.

The terms caregroup and members and the phrases social support network and family support network generally refer to a collection of individuals including family friends caregivers volunteers and or service providers who are registered members of a VPN associated with a user of communication appliance such as a digital mailbox appliance. An individual may be a member of multiple caregroups. Members may have different viewing editing and notification permissions independently associated with each caregroup in which they participate. For example administrative caregiver permissions described above are one such set of permissions.

The term carousel generally refers to a software implemented content buffering mechanism that may receive and store content at one rate and output the stored content at another rate. In one embodiment one or more carousels are provided by a communication service provider that allow members of a family support network to collect material such as family photos items of information articles personalized messages jokes etc. that will be incorporated over time in a periodic digital publication delivered to an elder. In this manner a family member can automatically direct selected data feed content to a carousel or manually place original and or personalized content into a carousel whenever he or she has time to do so. Then content from the carousel may be included in various periodic digital publications intended for the elder such as a daily delivery when space permits and as needed to provide content in such periodic digital publications. The buffering provided by use of one or more carousels e.g. photo carousels or personalized content carousels may be used to smooth the resulting communication over variations in how much time the members of the family support network have to devote to communication or contribution of content or photos. Like photos items of information from data feeds may also be collected in carousels for use over time. A predetermined or customizable delay may be established before buffered carousel content can be used in the periodic digital publication. This allows members of the family support network to examine filter edit personalize and or delete unwanted items before they are delivered to the elder. A brief personal note on a cartoon or joke can add to its affective impact by pointing out a special meaning of the item for the elder or the family.

The phrase coaching message generally refers to a message intended to directly or indirectly encourage activity. According to one embodiment coaching messages are messages originated internal to a caregroup VPN either from the communication service provider or a caregroup member or the user of a communication appliance associated with the caregroup VPN that encourages or prompts the generation of a new message within the caregroup. For example a coaching message may directly or indirectly encourage communication with the user s of a digital mailbox appliance or encourage the use of new or under used content types available within the communication system platform. Coaching messages may be originated by staff members and or administrators of the communication service provider administrating caregivers or even the user e.g. an elder of a digital mailbox appliance. According to one embodiment various coaching editors are provided within the communication system platform to assist administrating caregiver s with the task of creating and sending coaching messages.

In one embodiment the communication system provider may detect a behavior or an individual user or a family and generate a coaching message to one or more family members in response to what is detected. For example a coaching message may simply encourage a family member to check in by logging onto the family VPN. Certain automatically generated coaching messages may also encourage use of new or under used content types boost personalization or even add to the members personal data to enhance the overall experience. Other types of coaching messages may supply intellectual stimulation to the elder recognize family days of note encourage an increase in the affective content of correspondence directed to the elder encourage wider group participation require specific responses from the elder and the like.

The terms connected or coupled and related terms are used in an operational sense and are not necessarily limited to a direct connection or coupling.

The phrase content derived addressing generally refers to a process that permits a user of a communication appliance such as a hardcopy based email appliance to send a message to one or more caregroup members without having to specify an email address phone number or the like. Rather the message itself contains sufficient information to allow a communication service provider to determine the intended addressee s . According to one embodiment with a single press of a button on a hardcopy based communication appliance an elder may have a message delivered electronically to any caregroup member as part of an email message.

The phrase digital gift generally refers to an electronically delivered communication sent by a participant in a social support network or by the individual s that are the focus of the social support network. Examples of digital gifts include collages of digital photos simple text messages email messages photo essays eCards ready made communications FamilyWeather customized customizable Health and Wellness tips Kid Art and personalized ready made communications. According to one embodiment certain ready made digital gifts for delivery to or from an elder can be personalized within a few seconds to a few minutes and electronically delivered message to or from an elder . Digital gifts may be responses to queries created in digital gift editors parsed out of standard email formats or derived from paper forms supplied to the user of a hardcopy communication appliance. Digital gifts often have attractive and emotive decoration and layout. Digital gifts may also contain customized health and wellness status indicators including but not limited to mood sleep eating measurements of body fluids or status . According to one embodiment the printed form of digital gifts that are deliverable to a digital mailbox appliance may be adapted for an elder s personal requirements e.g. large fonts high contrast presentation even adaptation for color blindness .

The phrase digital mailbox appliance generally refers to a communication appliance or component configured to be associated with a caregroup VPN through a closed communication service. In one embodiment a digital mailbox appliance is a hardcopy based communication appliance that i accepts hardcopy input e.g. paper based messages and creates a digital representation of the hardcopy input for electronic delivery e.g. email delivery of such digital representation or digital gifts based on such digital representation to one or more members of the caregroup associated with the digital mailbox appliance and ii creates hardcopy output e.g. paper based messages responsive to electronic delivery of communications from caregroup members that are directed to the user of the digital mailbox appliance. According to one embodiment digital mailbox appliances are remotely maintained by a communication service provider responsive to calls to the communication service provider initiated by the digital mailbox appliances. Depending upon the particular embodiment a digital mailbox appliance is both simpler than a multifunction printer MFP and more functional than an MFP. According to one embodiment a digital mailbox appliance is simpler than an MFP in that it excludes many MFP features such as a copier a universal serial bus USB connection to and operation with a PC or network of PC s local control of quality print and scan . According to one embodiment a digital mailbox appliance is more functional than a MFP in that it connects to and depends on a closed communication service in that it schedules daily printing in that it connects to the closed communication service at a time of it s choosing modem management based on local configuration . It is envisioned that a digital mailbox appliance may be embedded within other consumer devices such as printers fax machines or the like. Also in embodiments in which hardcopy output is not desired or needed the digital mailbox appliance may comprise or be part of a cell phone a personal digital assistant PDA or other current or future handheld wireless devices.

The phrase Drop Box generally refers to a client side application that asynchronously delivers images to a Caregroup s shoebox for later publication as a part of one or more digital gifts which may be delivered to an elder.

The term eCard generally refers to an generally refers to an electronically delivered communication in the form of a card such as a greeting card.

The phrase eMail Button generally refers to a client side add on to be embedded into a member s email client to encourage sending messages to an elder.

The term elder generally refers to an aging family member such as a parent or grand parent. Typically the elder is the user of a digital mailbox appliance and a center of focus of a social support network such as a caregroup and a target recipient of communication services. An elder might also might be an isolated or disabled family member.

The phrase ex officio member generally refers to a member of a caregroup that has been granted access because of some commercial or support group relationship to the caregroup. Without limitation examples include the entity or organization that provides the communication service church groups e.g. the elder s shut in committee of their church an attending home care agency supporting personnel in an assisted living situation physician nurse physician s assistant insurance provider . . . etc. Ex officio members typically have access to specialized customer support tools though a communication service provider customer services website . The tools available and access to information within them may be configured for each caregroup ex officio role.

The term GrannySnap generally refers to an application loaded into a member s CameraPhone that sends photos directed to a digital gift to be presented with an elder s next delivery. As a result in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention the CameraPhone is one click away from printing a family photo at the elder s residence thereby increasing photo completion rates.

The phrase helper member generally refers to a volunteer or commercial caregiver with member status within a caregroup permitted by the administrating caregiver. Examples of helper members include members of a church group employees of a home care agency a geriatric consultant or members of a specialized supporting group e.g. for Alzheimer s care .

The phrases in one embodiment according to one embodiment and the like generally mean the particular feature structure or characteristic following the phrase is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention and may be included in more than one embodiment of the present invention. Importantly such phases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

The phrase Joint Payment generally refers to a mechanism that permits multiple Caregroup members to share the cost of a service subscription. According to one embodiment of the present invention the shared service subscription may be managed by each joint payer independently.

If the specification states a component or feature may can could or might be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or have the characteristic.

The term Notch generally refers to a cut indentation nick score or the like. According to one embodiment sheets of paper used with the digital mailbox appliance may be notched to match physical restraints of a scanner and or a printer associated with the digital mailbox appliance to fix the orientation of sheets of paper for proper scanning and printing. In one embodiment the lower right or left corner of sheets of paper or forms intended for use in connection with a digital mailbox appliance are cut off and matching physical constraints are provided on the input tray and the scan bed to force the end user e.g. an elder to place the paper or form in a known orientation.

The phrase photo essay generally refers to a story accompanied by one or more photos. Photo essays are typically about an event or adventure and typically include a paragraph or two about each photo and may include several pages of annotated photos. Examples of photo essays include without limitation a story about a trip to Belize by the great granddaughter stories about diving trips a photo home tour of a recently purchased condo pet essays a retirement party a classroom party a Tahiti cruise in planning participation in a major running race several local parades kids climbing a rock wall and fishing trips. According to one embodiment of the present invention a photo essay digital gift editor is provided that makes it easy to format and create this kind of content.

The phrase presentation components generally refer to editable elements of a digital gift in a digital gift editor.

The term project generally refers to multi day and or multi person communication activities such as the joint creation of an archive of family recipes an annotated collection of old family photos a turn taking game e.g. scrabble chess checkers . . . etc.

The phrase Publication Switch generally refers to a method supporting customized delivery of information into a variety of publications. According to various embodiments of the present invention the variety of publications may be scheduled for an elder s next delivery.

The term scan when used as a noun generally refers to a digital representation of a page of correspondence originated at a digital mailbox appliance.

The term WebSnap generally refers to a client side application loaded into a member s Internet browser that prepares and send a web page directed to a digital gift. According to one embodiment the digital gift may be presented with an elder s next delivery.

Social isolation and loneliness are problems for many elders and such conditions are strongly associated with health problems and reduced feelings of well being. To address this problem the methods and systems described herein seek to promote what Liechti and Ichikawa 1999 call affective awareness a general sense of being in touch with one s family and friends. According to various embodiments of the present invention communications from a social support network to the individual s that are the focus of the social support network are designed to carry not only an informational message but also more importantly a message of engagement and caring.

Studies of family communication have shown that the actual content or information exchanged during or in a communication is not the most important aspect of a communication. Rather it is the expression of interest in the relationship that is of importance as a result of the initiation of a call or sending of a card or email message. Patrick and Metcalf Patrick E. and Metcalf C. nd Mediated communication between extended family and friends A case study. Motorola Labs User Research Report at http internet2.motlabs.com user vmc study . have indicated The most striking implication . . . is that communication for shared experience so important in maintaining distance relationships is not adequately supported by the communication media available today. Embodiments of the present invention also attempt to address this need.

Meanwhile not only elders but also family caregivers need support that increased and better communication can provide. Biegel and Schultz 1999 in their introduction to a special issue of Family Relations devoted to family caregivers note both the prevalence of family caregiving and the burdens it creates. These can include lack of support and assistance from other family members. Picot and Lowell 2001 estimate that there are more than 25 million family caregivers in the United States and that many feel a significant burden. In the extreme family caregivers can suffer caregiver burnout Lee et al. 2001 .

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for creating a virtual private network VPN connecting non computer users with their social support networks who do use computers camera phones and or email appliances. In one embodiment coaching techniques are employed to influence the quantity quality effectiveness and timeliness of electronic communications to and from individuals frequently isolated from family and friends.

Information technology methods and systems are described herein that seek to empower participants in a social support network by simplifying the task of creating and initiating communications. In the context of various embodiments described herein the methods and systems seek to allow family members to provide more effective support to an elder living independently. For example various communications tools make it easier for family caregivers to provide stimulating and useful information to the elder helping to sustain health activity and engagement. Embodiments of the present invention operate as a communication transformer making it possible for family members to communicate with elders using the Internet without requiring the elders to operate or maintain a computer. It is contemplated that the methods and systems described herein will make it easier for family caregivers to share information and ideas among themselves and increase the general level of communication within the family generally as well as to and from the elder.

In one embodiment a proprietary device or set of devices referred to as a digital mailbox or a digital mailbox appliance allows electronic communication with elders. The digital mailbox provides a much simpler user interface for the elder than email or other existing computer applications. The digital mailbox may incorporate features of a fax machine a photo printer and a scanner backed by servers operated by a communication service provider. A member of a social support network is able to generate email or create a digital gift or contribute to a periodic publication which is delivered to the elder as a high quality hardcopy with no intervention required by the elder via the communication service provider. According to one embodiment the elder can send correspondence to a member of his her social support network from his her digital mailbox by simply placing it on a flat scanner bed and pressing a single button. No typing or dialing is required. As described further below with respect to content derived addressing addressing the correspondence may accomplished by checking off address information on a routing form provided by the communication service provider and customized for the elder. In another case described below the addressing the correspondence is automatic because the form being used is an explicit reply to a prior communication. Thus elders can receive and send electronic messages including images with no use of a computer and with an extremely simple interface.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a communication system in which the digital mailbox operates provides an online interface such as a password protected portion of a web portal into which participants in a social support group my login. The communication system may include various automated communication tools that allow family members or others in an elder s social support network to send engaging interesting and useful information to the elder. In view of empirical evidence suggesting elders specifically value predictable communication versus just getting emails every now and then embodiments of the present invention facilitate the delivery of information to the elder on a predictable schedule even when the schedules of the participants in the social support network do not permit such regular communications. The communication system may also provide tools that help family members support one another in their various caregiver roles.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the digital mailbox appliance provides an unattended printing feature. This unattended printing aspect of the digital mailbox appliance has significant impact. In one embodiment to receive messages and digital gifts the elder does not have to turn anything on to login to use a keyboard or mouse or even a TV like remote control. Gifts and messages simply appear at a regular time of day much as does the mail delivered by the US Post Office.

The communication system may also gather information about the communications exchanged within participating social support networks to allow assessment of the impact of the communications on elders. Impact metrics may then be viewed and analyzed in graphical form by a social support network administrator such as a family representative or other administrating caregiver. Exemplary impact metrics may include simple counts assessed value or other measures of effects communications and gift categories by member by type and or during a specified time period. Effect monitoring may include calculating an assessed value of affective communications communications that induce intellectual stimulus and or communications that induce activity. Communication monitoring may include a simple count of digital gifts originated by participants in a social support network and or the individual s that are the focus of the social support network. Digital gift monitoring and analysis may include categorization of digital gifts and tracking of the number of digital gifts in the categories e.g. collages simple text messages email messages photo essays ready made communications and personalized ready made communications .

The scanning of the install scan page by the digital mailbox may also trigger the family private network service to send initial startup deliveries to the digital mailbox appliance such as a welcome packet directions for use customer service contact information and the like. Advantageously use of such an installation mechanism provides the installer with immediate feedback.

The install scan page may also be used to reconfigure the digital mailbox appliance when i swapping a digital mailbox appliance owner in an institutional setting e.g. hospital hospice convalescent hospital ii the digital mailbox appliance is moved to a new location or iii when information associated with the phone line changes such as phone number change addition of calling features e.g. caller id call waiting etc.

Exemplary processor s can be an Intel Itanium or Itanium 2 processor s or AMD Opteron or Athlon MP processor s . Communication port s can be any of an RS 232 port for use with a modem based dialup connection a 10 100 Ethernet port or a Gigabit port using copper or fiber. Communication port s may be chosen depending on a network such a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or any network to which the computer system connects.

Main memory can be Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device s commonly known in the art.

Read only memory can be any static storage device s such as Programmable Read Only Memory PROM chips for storing static information such as instructions for processor .

Mass storage can be used to store information and instructions. For example hard disks such as the Adaptec family of SCSI drives an optical disc an array of disks such as RAID such as the Adaptec family of RAID drives or any other mass storage devices may be used.

Bus communicatively couples processor s with the other memory storage and communication blocks. Bus can be a PCI PCI X or SCSI based system bus depending on the storage devices used.

Removable storage media can be any kind of memory card flash memory stick external hard drives floppy drives IOMEGA Zip Drives Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disc Re Writable CD RW Digital Video Disk Read Only Memory DVD ROM . It is to be noted that the aforementioned examples do not limit the scope of the invention and are only exemplary embodiments.

