---

title: Adaptable remote control driving system
abstract: A modular system for remotely controlling an automotive vehicle is provided. The system issues commands responsive to a radio control transmitter, which controls the vehicle by its steering device and respective control pedals for acceleration and braking. The system includes a steer linkage, a steering motor, a pedal linkage, a linear actuator, a radio receiver, and a digital motor controller. By employing a chain pulley, the steer linkage removably attaches to and controllably rotates the steering device. The steering motor conveys torque to the steer linkage. The pedal linkage removably connects to and pushes against at least one of the control pedals using pinned moment levers. The linear actuator transmits force to the pedal linkage. The pedal linkage may be removably mounted on a linkage platform. The radio receiver receives command signals from the transmitter and communicates with the steering motor and the linear actuator via the digital motor controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07628239&OS=07628239&RS=07628239
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07628239
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060830
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to remote control systems for automobiles. In particular the system includes a kit of linkage components that can be adjustably and non destructively installed for a variety of vehicles and subsequently disassembled for storage in minimal time. The system responds to control signals transmitted via a radio remote control device.

Test safety demands on occasion require remote control of a ground transportation vehicle such as that simulated by the time traveling Delorean sportscar featured in . Such implements have typically been custom fitted to the controls subsequent to or currently with modification of the driver s position equipment such as seat bench or steering wheel.

Conventional remote control systems yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular exemplary embodiments provide component modularity for assembly and disassembly to any one of a large assortment of vehicles. Further the exemplary embodiments enable the remote control system to be installed without permanent modification of the vehicle.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a modular system for remotely controlling an automotive vehicle. The system issues commands responsive to a radio control transmitter which controls the vehicle by its steering device and respective control pedals for acceleration and braking. The system may include a steer linkage a motor a pedal linkage an actuator and a controller.

In various exemplary embodiments the motor conveys torque to the steer linkage. By employing a chain pulley the steer linkage may attach to and controllably rotate the steering device. The pedal linkage connects to and pushes against at least one of the control pedals using pinned moment levers. The actuator transmits force to the pedal linkage. The controller includes a radio receiver that receives command signals from the transmitter and communicates with the motor and the actuator via a digital motor controller. The pedal linkage may be mounted on a linkage platform. These connections and attachments may be nondestructively removable from each other and from the vehicle.

Various embodiments provide for failsafe default commands to brake the vehicle in the event that receipt of signal is lost or during manual override. Other various embodiments alternatively or additionally provide for multiple channels for additional instructions and or feedback.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The assembly includes a digital motor control system a geared steering motor which rotates the steering wheel by a chain link steer pulley assembly and a pedal linkage assembly for controlling the foot pedals . Alternative to the steering wheel a yoke may be employed as a less common mechanism to command vehicle turning to which the pulley assembly may be attached. The motor may be driven by a 12 volt or 24 volt direct current battery . The assembly may also be secured by straps to the seat .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the receiver may be supplemented with a second receiver. The PCM receiver typically operates at 75 MHz whereas the second receiver may employ Spread Spectrum at 2.4 GHz. Additionally a separate radio control may be used to disable the link independently of the assembly system to enable a graceful shutdown in the event of a communications link disconnection or other control failure.

The motor controller sends turn control signals to the geared steering motor which rotates the vehicle s steering wheel by a steer pulley assembly . The motor controller also sends accelerator and brake control signals to a pedal linkage assembly . shows the pulley assembly including a chain drive and a wheel attachment with further details shown in .

The actuator pulls and pushes the connection lever at its pinned drive end. In response to the actuator retreating inward aft the accelerator linkage members press forward to engage the vehicle s accelerator pedal. In response to the actuator extending outward forward the brake linkage members press forward to apply the vehicle s brakes. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternate configurations for assembling functionally equivalent components may be employed without departing from the scope of the invention. As an alternative configuration individual linear actuators may be used for the brakes and accelerator in lieu of the connection lever and associated components described herein.

In response to the pitch joy stick moving fore and aft the receiver submits commands to push the accelerator and brake pedal members and respectively. In response to the yaw joy stick moving left and right the receiver submits commands to turn the steering wheel towards port and starboard respectively. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternate equipment for providing transmitting and receiving control signals may be employed without departing from the scope of the invention. Alternative configurations for the dual joy stick transmitter include those with a wheel to control steering and a trigger to control the accelerator and brake.

The wheel attachment includes a toothed sprocket wheel rigidly connected to a mounting wheel . The sprocket wheel may connect to the chain at the upper end . Connection arms radiating from a hub attach to the mounting wheel by bolts . The arms include a series of through holes along a portion of its length to adjust the radius of the wheel attachment to the steering wheel .

A mount block detachably attaches to each arm on opposite sides of the steering wheel and are secured by pins that extend through the holes . A steering axle may extend from the turning axis of the wheel attachment . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternate design configurations for steering wheel control linkages such as a loop belt or a gear transmission may be employed without departing from the scope of the invention. As an alternative configuration a belt and pulley system can be used in lieu of the chain and sprocket drive mechanism described herein. If only limited steering control is desired a single linear actuator can be mounted directly between the outer edge of the steering wheel and a control mount assembly described further in .

The steering motor may be secured to the angle plate by a mount bracket . The plates and may be fiberglass or any other appropriate stiff material having adequate mechanical and dielectric characteristics. The brackets and may be aluminum or any other structural material that serves this purpose.

A torque axle turns a small sprocket or chuck that engages the roller chain at its lower end . The torque axle transfers mechanical power from a gear transmission housed within the mount bracket and connected to the steering motor . A connector supplies signals from the receiver to the steering motor through a cable .

A cantilever plate may optionally attach to the mount bracket for disposing a rotation sensor connected to the steering axle . A potentiometer responds to the rotation sensor as turn feedback to the motor controller through a connector . The potentiometer and connector may communicate through a cable .

The motor base plate may attach onto the motor extension plate by bolts through co linear alignment holes. The extension plate may connect to the transition plate by an extension L bracket . The transition and pedal mount plates may attach to the floor plate by respective L brackets . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternate design configurations for step motor mount and control may be employed without departing from the scope of the invention.

The near and far members provide moment leverage for the pedal linkages that include a brake leg and an accelerator leg both pivotably connected to the far member . A feedback sensor disposed on the sensor bracket is located at the pivot point of far member and provides measurement information on the relative position e.g. angular disposition of the components for the linkage assembly .

A hinged linkage bracket connects the linkage plate to the mount plate . The brake and accelerator legs may be supported by respective leg brackets . The far member may be bolted to a bearing bolted to the linkage plate and or supported by a linkage bracket . The motor controller may communicate with the position feedback sensor by a sensor electrical connector over a cable . The sensor may represent a potentiometer supported by the linkage bracket for measuring an angular position of the connection lever in relation to the actuator .

The motor controller may communicate with the linear actuator by an actuator electrical connector over a cable . A mechanical disconnect mechanism such as a releasable pin may be pulled out to manually disengage the actuator from the attachment and thereby separate the connection lever . The connection lever may be spring loaded to pivot so as to extend the brake and retract the accelerator pedals in the absence of countervailing force from the actuator .

Alternatively a thumb screw may be employed to rotate and retract thereby separating the actuator from the attachment . Once manually disengaged a spring between and applies pressure to the brake pedal. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize alternate design configurations for the connection without departing from the scope of the invention. For example parts and may be connected via a rod on part with a tube on part with a threaded thumbscrew to provide connection via a frictional fit when the thumbscrew is tightened. When the thumbscrew is unscrewed the two pieces will disengage. In addition a coiled spring can be used around the pivot point of to apply pressure to the brakes when disengaged.

The pin thumbscrew lever may be activated by a cord attached to the pin or thumbscrew lever. Alternatively the mechanical disconnect can be actuated by servo using another radio control system on a different frequency i.e. the main system on 75 MHz and the safety disconnect system on 2.4 GHz with Spread Spectrum or vice versa .

The length of the extension may be adjusted along the accelerator leg and secured with an accelerator adjustment pin . The angular orientation of the contact pad with respect to the vehicle s accelerator pedal may be adjusted by several holes in an angle strut and secured by a wing nut. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternate design configurations for pedal control linkages may be employed without departing from the scope of the invention. Any telescoping tube with a positive locking mechanism may be used for the legs and or extensions.

The remote control system as described may be installed into a variety of automobiles such as cars and trucks. This system may also be suitable for watercraft as well. Due to the modularity of the assembly separate components can be disassembled and stowed for transport to another vehicle for subsequent installation.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

