---

title: Systems and methods for electronic postmarking including ancillary data background
abstract: An embodiment of the invention provides a method for performing electronic postmarking of data, including ancillary data is provided. The method includes receiving data from a sender. The method further includes selecting ancillary data. The method further includes generating an electronic postmark including the ancillary data. The method further includes forwarding the data with the electronic postmark including the ancillary data to a receiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07451915&OS=07451915&RS=07451915
owner: United States Postal Service
number: 07451915
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060613
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 474 723 filed Oct. 14 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 121 455 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 283 157 filed Apr. 12 2001 both of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for electronic postmarking. More particularly this invention relates to systems and methods for electronically postmarking including ancillary data.

The use of electronic networks to convey information among networked users has undergone an enormous amount of growth in recent years. The ability to transfer data using computer applications such as for example electronic mail e mail and file transfer protocol FTP programs has become increasingly important in personal and especially business communications. Electronic communication services have become invaluable to individual and business concerns.

E mail is a well known means of communication for individuals and businesses with access to computers and Internet connections. When a user establishes an account with an e mail service provider e.g. America Online or Hotmail the user is assigned a unique e mail address e.g. someone inter.net. Another individual can send a message to the user by entering the user s e mail address along with the message and sending it via the Internet. E mail can provide almost instant message delivery among individuals and businesses over vast distances for very little or no cost.

Despite the advantages of e mail there are drawbacks. E mail messages are insecure and can be intercepted en route by unknown third parties. Individuals and businesses that communicate electronically need to know that they can rely on the address to correctly identify the sender and or recipient

FTP allows a user to transfer files between two computers generally connected via a network. If a system has FTP and is connected to a network a user can access files available on connected computer systems. FTP allows for the easy transfer of large numbers of files for instant access to files and file sharing by many individuals over vast distances.

Despite the advantages of FTP there are drawbacks. It may be difficult to keep files to be transferred secure and to control the flow of the electronic files. Individuals and businesses that use FTP for file sharing need to know that they can correctly identify the requestor and source of the file.

In addition to e mail and FTP programs other types of data transfer are employed in business communications. For example buying and selling goods online electronic funds transfer online advertising and accessing business information resources is known as electronic commerce E commerce . E commerce can improve the efficiency of current business processes and provide opportunities to widen existing customer bases. As the number of Internet users continues to expand e commerce has the potential to be the source of an extraordinary amount of revenue growth. In order to realize this potential a variety of communication services and features will be required for e commerce which traditionally have been available in physical communication channels.

The United States Postal Service USPS an independent establishment of the executive branch of the U.S. Government provides many features through a variety of document and package delivery services. The USPS is widely recognized as a secure and reliable means for sending and receiving packages and mail used for both personal and business transactions. Packages and mail sent via the USPS are physically time stamped with an official postmark which provides the recipient with proof of the time the item was sent. Additionally once a package or mail item is placed with the USPS the item is no longer in the sender s control and thus cannot be recalled. Furthermore packages and mail sent through the USPS are protected from third party tampering by Federal laws.

In contrast electronic communication services and e commerce services currently do not provide these features. As described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 675 677 filed Sep. 29 2000 entitled Systems and Methods for Authenticating an Electronic Message the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference an electronic postmark or EPM provides content and temporal integrity and identification authenticity for data that is transferred over a network. Such EPMs have traditionally been used to authenticate the identity of the sender of a particular message or to authenticate the time date at which the message was created.

In addition to authenticating the electronic message itself it would be advantageous to authenticate included ancillary data such as an attached image sent along with an electronic message. In light of the foregoing it is desirable to provide systems and methods for electronic communication services and e commerce services providing for authentication of electronic transactions by use of an electronic postmark including ancillary data.

In accordance with the purpose of the present invention as embodied and broadly described herein the invention provides systems and methods for performing electronic postmarking of data including ancillary data.

In one embodiment consistent with the present invention a method for performing electronic postmarking of data including ancillary data is provided. The method includes receiving data from a sender. The method further includes selecting ancillary data. The method further includes generating an electronic postmark including the ancillary data The method further includes forwarding the data with the electronic postmark to a receiver.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made to the present embodiments consistent with the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

The described system and methods relate to electronic communication services and e commerce services providing for authentication of electronic transactions by use of an electronic postmark including ancillary data.

Network can be TCP IP based wireless or any kind of digital network connection such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN or a proprietary network. System architecture is suitable for use with the Java Python C SQL programming languages and other like programming languages.

Sender receiver and pictorial EPM system may all be individual computers or systems running together on one computer. They may be personal computers such as Apple PowerMacintoshes or Pentium based personal computers running a version of the Windows operating system workstation or other appropriate types of computers.

In system sender communicates with receiver through network . The communication between the sender and receiver can be conducted through a web based environment in which the sender and receiver communications are transmitted via HTTP protocol.

Sending user may use sender which may be a personal computer to send a message not shown via network to receiving user who is using receiver which also may be a personal computer. The message which may be any type of electronic transaction passes through pictorial EPM system and pictorial EPM system the message receives an electronic postmark which includes ancillary data. The ancillary data may be and attached image.

Receiver could be connected to a variety of devices for storing and displaying the image. Such devices may include a hard copy device a digital storage device and or a smart card . Receiving user at receiver thus has an option of storing in hardcopy device for example a printer or fax machine or in smart card so that the receiving user can carry that image around use it or show it somewhere else. Another option is using digital storage device .

For pictorial electronic postmarking EPM server is connected to image processor and postmark content server . Postmark content server can generate images to create a pictorial EPM similar to a stamp. Postmark content server is also connected to sender . Sending user using sender can register with postmark content server and select particular content such as a graphic image that sending user desires to be to messages from sender similar to picking a stamp at the post office. If sender does not select a preference for a specific graphic image content server will select the graphic image to be used. The content can be similar to currently existing postage stamps.

The graphic image selected is an electronic image such as a .tiff .gif .jpeg or other type of electronic file. Code embedded in the graphic image will allow for a hyperlinks to content on the Internet. Thus when a receiving user receives the image on receiver the receiving user can click on the image and be taken via a web browser such as Netscape Navigator or Microsoft Internet Explorer to a web page displaying information about the image. For example a pictorial EPM can include a graphic image of an Ansil Adams photograph of Yosemite. When the receiving user receives the pictorial EPM they may click on the image of Yosemite and be taken via a hyperlink to more information about the national park Yosemite more information about Ansil Adams or more information about California. In another embodiment the receiving user may pass a cursor over the image and a pop up dialog box may appear on the screen containing more information about the image. The content of the graphic image in the pictorial EPM can be an image tied to daily changing news. One example of this is an image from the headline of USA Today. For example on a Monday a sports topic image will be used Tuesday a current events image Wednesday a science image Thursday a human interest image. The image would not just be a graphic but could also provide a link to more information such as the USA Today text article.

The EPM server may also receive an image from sender and use image processor to attach the image to the EPM. For example the sending user may capture a real time image comprising a self portrait to add to and authenticate the electronic transfer. Sender may have a corporate identity and wish for all electronic transactions to have a corporate logo or corporate information attached to the EPM.

As shown in EPM system may include a registration database connected to EPM server and receiver . Registration database may be updated by EPM server to include information about a pictorial EPM that was sent to a particular receiver . This information may indicate that the receiver has or will be receiving the limited edition sports images with the electronic transaction and will register the receiver as a legal owner of for example the sports image of Babe Ruth serial number 123456. That information would then reside in the registration database . However if the electronic transaction is not registered by EPM server and if receiver wishes to enhance the pictorial EPM received receiver may communicate with the registration database and register the pictorial EPM. This registration can be used for future trading or selling of the pictorial EPM.

Computer system includes several components all interconnected via a system bus . Bus may be for example a bi directional system bus that connects the components of computer system . For example bus may contain thirty two address lines for addressing a memory and thirty two bit data lines for transferring data among the components. Alternatively multiplex data address lines may be used instead of separate data and address lines. Computer system may communicate with other computing systems on network via network I O examples of which include Ethernet or dial up telephone connections.

Computer system contains a central processing unit CPU connected to a memory . CPU may be a microprocessor such as the Pentium family microprocessors manufactured by Intel Corporation. However any other suitable microprocessor micro mini or mainframe computer may be used. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a video memory or mass storage. Mass storage may include both fixed and removable media e.g. magnetic optical or magnetic optical storage systems or other available mass storage technology .

Memory may contain a program an application programming interface API and other instructions for performing the methods consistent with the invention. Media Application may be implemented as a software program in memory executed by CPU . In one embodiment media application is a computer pram suitable for the C programming language.

Computer system may also receive input via input output I O devices which may include a keyboard pointing device or other like input devices. Computer system may also present information and interfaces via display .

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

