---

title: Electro-optic shutter
abstract: Various embodiments of an improved electro-optic shutter are disclosed. One embodiment comprises an electro-optic element, first and second polarizers, and a pair of electrodes. The electro-optic element has opposing transverse surfaces and operates as a half wave plate when a voltage V is applied to the element. The first and second polarizers are each disposed adjacent to one transverse surface of the electro-optic element. The first and second electro-optic element have parallel transmission axes. Each electrode is disposed on one of the transverse surfaces of the electro-optic element and has an electric field which is substantially uniform over the transverse extent of the electro-optic element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07751109&OS=07751109&RS=07751109
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07751109
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060914
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present disclosure relates to electro optic shutters and more specifically to a shutter using a Pockels cell.

The high intensity light in a laser pulse can damage the human eye to such an extent that permanent blindness occurs. Laser pulses can also damage electronic imaging or sensor devices. Using a shutter device to block a laser pulse is difficult because of the quick transient time of the optical pulse on the order of milliseconds down to nanoseconds. The short response time makes mechanical shutters unworkable for laser pulses. Chemical dye based shutters have a faster response time but do not provide enough attenuation to protect against laser pulses. Electro optic shutters have a quick response time and good attenuation but conventional designs do not extinguish light evenly over the extent of the electro optic element. Therefore an improved electro optic shutter is needed.

The invention is summarized in an electro optic shutter including an electro optic element a first polarizer a second polarizer and a pair of electrodes. The electro optic element operates as a half wave plate when a voltage V is applied to the element and has two opposing transverse surfaces. The first polarizer is disposed adjacent to one transverse surface of the electro optic element and has a first transmission axis. The second polarizer is disposed adjacent to the other transverse surface of the electro optic element and has a second transmission axis different than the first transmission axis. Each electrode is disposed on one of the transverse surfaces of the electro optic element and has an electric field which is substantially uniform over the transverse extent of the electro optic element.

Polarizers are located on either side of Pockels cell . Polarizers and are linear polarizers assembled in a parallel configuration. Thus the transmission axis of polarizer is parallel to the transmission axis of polarizer .

Electrodes are located on the transverse surfaces of Pockels cell . A voltage source not shown applies a voltage between electrodes and . Electrodes and are fabricated so that the resulting electric field is substantially uniform over the transverse extent of Pockels cell and so that Pockels cell is substantially transparent to incident images on shutter . To this end electrodes and in the example embodiment of are each shaped as a mesh formed of perpendicular rows and column. The spacing of the mesh is on the order of 0.5 1.0 mm and does not generally obstruct the view through the device. In another embodiment not shown electrodes and are formed of parallel columns running in one direction rather than perpendicular rows and columns. The spacing of these columns is on the order of 0.5 1.0 mm. In yet another embodiment electrodes and take the form of a deposited conducting transparent film.

As described earlier electroformed electrodes and take the form of perpendicular rows and columns or of parallel rows. As should be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art a spin on or vacuum deposited electrode will be continuous in coverage. An insulating boundary at the outer edge of shutter prevents voltage from shorting across the outer edge of Pockels cell . In one embodiment the cross section of shutter is on the order of 5 to 10 mm.

In incident light enters shutter through linear polarizer . Linear polarizer has a polarization transmission axis so that light exiting linear polarizer is linearly polarized parallel to the transmission axis . As should be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art polarizer transmits only the light component having a polarization parallel to the transmission axis . For ease of illustration transmission axis is vertical in the example shown in but transmission axis may be in any direction.

A person of ordinary skill in the art should also understand that polarizer causes some degree of attenuation. The intensity of light exiting polarizer is related to the angle between the polarization vector of the incoming light and the transmission axis according to Malus law I Icos 

Light enters the second linear polarizer which has a transmission axis that is parallel to the transmission axis of first linear polarizer . Because the transmission axes are parallel light exits second linear polarizer substantially unchanged except for some degree of attenuation as described by Malus law.

The configuration of electrodes and is such that the electric field resulting from voltage V is substantially uniform over the transverse extent of Pockels cell so that rotation of polarization occurs for substantially all of light passing through Pockels cell . However a person of ordinary skill in the art should understand that some amount of light will be transmitted through improved electro optic shutter where the amount depends on the extinction available from the crossed polarizers and on how quickly the device begins to block light.

In alternative embodiment improved electro optic shutter is normally on . That is light is blocked by improved electro optic shutter unless voltage V is applied to electrodes and . In this normally on configuration the two linear polarizers have perpendicular rather than parallel transmission axes. Pockels cell rotates the axis of polarization 90 as long as voltage V is applied to electrodes and . Light exiting Pockels cell has a polarization vector parallel to the second linear polarizer since the second polarizer has a transmission axis 90 to the first polarizer and therefore passes through the second linear polarizer.

The normally off configuration provides for a transparent shutter if the power fails which may be desirable for some applications. The normally on configuration which provides for a blocked shutter if the power fails offers features which may be desirable for other applications. The normally off configuration uses less power compared to the normally on configuration and field uniformity is not an issue.

The electro optic effect of Pockels cell will now be described in more detail. Pockels cell exhibits a linear electro optic effect such that birefringence occurs when the cell is placed in an electric field. The induced birefringence is proportional to the applied electric field. The induced birefringence is due to the deformation of the indicatrix index ellipsoid caused by the applied field. In order to describe how the indicatrix changes in the presence of an electric field it is first desirable to define a reciprocal dielectric tensor Equation 1 where is the permittivity of free space and is the relative dielectric permittivity tensor. Note that underlined boldfaced symbols denote tensors r the boldface symbols denote vector quantities E whereas regular type denotes a scalar quantity n n x y z . The indicatrix in the coordinate system of the principal dielectric axes is then defined as shown in Equation 2 1 Equation 2 

Equation 3 describes the normalized indicatrix without an external electric field applied 1 Equation 3 

When a strong external electric field E is applied the indicatrix is distorted the length of the principal axes is modified and the orientation of the indicatrix is also modified Equation 4 where r is the Pockels electro optic tensor. The indicatrix is renormalized to the new field 1 Equation 5 

The expanded form of Equation 6 for a tetragonal group m crystal using Hermann Mauguin notation includes KDP and its isomorphs. The Pockels electro optic tensor is a third rank tensor and contains 18 terms 

Under the influence of an applied electric field the equation for the new index ellipsoid is 2221 Equation 8 

When transformed to a new set of coordinates the indicatrix described in Equation 8 becomes 1 1 1 Equation 9 where nand nare the refractive indices of the ordinary and extraordinary ray respectively. In the orientation of crystal axes in a practical device is shown. In the presence of an applied field the indicatrix changes and the x and y axes are rotated to x and y .

The incident light polarized parallel to x can be resolved into two orthogonal components parallel to x and y oriented 45 to either side of the x axis of the crystal. The crystal is customarily cut in a z cut configuration meaning that the incoming light travels down the z axis of the crystal. One component x is advanced by 4 and the y component is delayed by 4. The result is a total phase difference of 2 which rotates the incoming polarization 90 .

The phase shift that occurs if light is passed through the crystal in the direction of the applied electric field can also be written as 2 Equation 10 where is the phase shift in radians of the light of wavelength units of m nis the refractive index dimensionless quantity of the Pockels medium at wavelength units of m ris the particular electro optic constant for the Pockels material units of m V and V is the applied voltage units of V . The half wave voltage V follows 2 Equation 11 

This voltage V is on the order of several kilovolts in a practical device and scales in a linear fashion with wavelength. For KDP r 10.3 pm V and V 7.65 KV 546 nm . For KD P r 25 pm V V 2.98 KV 546 nm . A preferred embodiment uses KD P but the use of KDP is also contemplated.

Each photodetector is configured to detect light in a particular range of wavelengths . In one embodiment the plurality of photodetectors is a series of photodiodes designed to trigger over a specific bandwidth e.g. 100 nm but a person of ordinary skill in the art should understand that other photodetector embodiments are also contemplated. Each photodetector is coupled to voltage source in such a manner that detection of light by that detector triggers voltage source to produce a voltage pulse at voltage V which scales linearly with the wavelength . The voltage pulse is supplied to Pockels cell . A person of ordinary skill in the art should understand that the shape and duration and rise time of the pulse can be designed to match the electro optical characteristics of Pockels cell within shutter . In one embodiment the width of the voltage pulse is on the order of picoseconds. For a Pockels cell using KDP or K DP the amount of voltage for V is on the order of several kilovolts and varies by about 5 from 700 400 nm.

The behavior of shutter in the presence and absence of voltage was described earlier in connection with A and B and will not be repeated here. The design of device allows very rapid blocking of an optical transient such as laser pulses in the millisecond to the nanosecond regime. Shutter offers a significant advantage in speed over mechanical shutters while providing for higher attenuation than passive dye based shutters.

The use of discrete cells in proximity and embedded within a flexible material allows shutter to be constructed in a segmented fashion so that the overall device configuration can follow a curved surface. In the example embodiment of Pockels cells have a hexagonal arrangement where each cell is adjacent to six other cells and the cells are packed tightly. While this arrangement allows high cell density a person of ordinary skill in the art should understand that other spatial arrangements are possible.

The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The implementations discussed however were chosen and described to illustrate the principles of the disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the disclosure in various implementations and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variation are within the scope of the disclosure as determined by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly and legally entitled.

