---

title: Fallback mechanism for data reproduction
abstract: Reproduction of digital data using a fallback mechanism is disclosed. The digital data can be reproduced in a first mode and in an at least second mode, the operability of a selected mode is monitored and in a situation of failure, a switching between the mode in which a failure is detected to a mode which is operable can be made, so that least some functionality is ensured. An apparatus is disclosed, the apparatus being operable in a first mode where the digital data is accessed in a first format, and the apparatus being operable in an at least second mode where the digital data is accessed in at least a second format. Also a system, a method, a computer readable code and a data stream are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08787131&OS=08787131&RS=08787131
owner: Koninklijke Philips N.V.
number: 08787131
owner_city: Eindhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20060213
---
The invention relates to reproduction of digital data and in particular to digital data which can be reproduced in a first mode and in an at least second mode.

The data capacity available on digital media has increased since the market introduction of such media e.g. the DVD disk has a larger capacity than the CD disk. BD ROM is the next generation of read only optical disk standard the BD disk provides a medium with even larger capacity since it will be possible to obtain a capacity of at least 25 GB on one layer.

The logical format of BD ROM media defines the application of the disks and currently work is being done to standardise this logical format as well as the physical format . The large capacity of a BD disk renders possible the presence of a variety of applications on a single disk. The primary application is foreseen to be high definition TV HDTV however also interactivity applications such as web connectivity and games may be part of the standard.

JAVA will be the enabling technology for the interactivity and BD players will contain a JAVA virtual machine with additional application programming interfaces APIs for controlling audio visual A V playback of the disk.

The use of a fully programmable system for BD ROM results in a more complex verification and testing. The possible applications are endless but also the differences between implementations of such a complex programmable platform are large and some applications may not function properly on all devices. In case an application crashes then it might become impossible to play that disk on that player.

The inventors of the present invention have appreciated that improved means for reproducing data from media comprising digital data in more than one format is of benefit and has in consequence devised the present invention.

The present invention seeks to provide an improved way of reproduction of data. Preferably the invention alleviates mitigates or eliminates one or more of the above or other disadvantages singly or in any combination.

Accordingly there is provided in a first aspect an apparatus for reproducing digital data the apparatus being operable in a first mode where the digital data is accessed in a first format and the apparatus being operable in an at least second mode where the digital data is accessed in at least a second format wherein the first mode or the at least second mode can be selected and wherein if a failure of the selected mode is detected a switching to an operable mode can be made.

The apparatus for reproducing digital data may be a consumer electronic stand alone type apparatus similar to an optical disk player the apparatus may also be an add on module for adding the functionality of the present invention to an apparatus not provided with this functionality. The apparatus may be suitable for reproduction of high capacity media such as BD ROM media where the digital data is accessed from a storage disk the apparatus may however also support data access from other types of media such as from hard disk type media data accessible via the Internet or another connection type. The apparatus may be operable in a first mode and in an at least second mode. A mode may be a mode for providing a set of functionalities e.g. providing access to movie data and a set of functionalities in connection with showing a movie to a user of the apparatus providing access to a game and a set of functionalities in connection with playing the game.

Support of two or more modes suffer from the risk that one of the modes may not work as a result the entire disk may become inoperable. But due to the presence of at least two modes it is possible that in a situation where a failure of a selected mode is detected a switching to an operable mode can be made.

It is an advantage to be able to switch between a mode in which a failure has been detected to an operable mode since a more robust and stable apparatus for reproducing digital data is provided. Modern electronic apparatuses suffer from the fact that they crash and become inoperable from time to time be incorporating a fallback mechanism i.e. a mechanism that ensures at least some functionality in a failure situation the inconvenience of malfunction or idleness is minimised or even avoided.

The optional features as defined in claim have the advantage that by automatically switching to an operable mode a user of the apparatus need not be disturbed by the occurrence of a failure.

The optional features as defined in claim have the advantage that by supporting programmable applications an almost endless variety of functionalities may be provided.

The optional features as defined in claim have the advantage that a more stable apparatus may be provided. Programmable applications provide a large potential for a variety of functionalities programmable applications however also require extensive and complex verification and testing. Failure of a programmable application is much more likely than failure of a non programmable application.

The optional features as defined in claim have the advantage that a versatile apparatus is provided since it may support a variety of different ways of accessing data.

The optional features as defined in claim have the advantage that a more intelligent apparatus and thereby more user friendly apparatus may be provided. By storing failure characteristics the inconvenience from a failure detected in a first session may be minimised or even avoided in a second session.

The optional features as defined in claim have the advantage that it may be ensured that a user does not experience inconveniences relating to a known failure i.e. a failure detected in a previous session.

According to a second aspect of the invention is provided a system for reproducing digital data the system comprising

wherein the control section being operable to support a first mode where the digital data is in a first format and at least a second mode where the digital data is in an at least a second format and wherein the control section monitors the operability of the digital data reproduction in a selected mode and if a failure is detected in the selected mode a switching to an operable mode can be made.

The read section may be any type of means for providing data from a data source to the system such as a disk tray with associated means for reading the disk it may be a slot for inserting a cable a wireless receiver etc. The output section is typically the section which ensures that the data may be provided to an apparatus on which the data may be viewed e.g. the output section may be the section providing data to a screen. The control section may typically be processing means implemented by software by firmware or by hardware. The processing means may be part of a general purpose processing means or a dedicated processing means.

According to a third aspect is provided a method for reproducing digital data the method being provided in accordance with the first and or second aspect of the present invention.

According to a fourth aspect is provided a computer readable code for reproducing digital data the computer readable code being provided in accordance with implementing the third aspect of the present invention.

According to a fifth aspect is provided a data stream for reproducing digital data wherein the data stream comprises first sections where the data stream conforms to digital data in a first format and at least a second section where the data stream conforms to digital data in an at least second format wherein the reproducing content of the digital data in the at least second section corresponds to the reproducing content of the digital data in the first section and wherein at least one second section is inserted in the data stream if a failure of the digital data in the first format is present.

The data stream may be constructed from the digital data in the first and second formats. The data stream may be constructed in real time based on the digital data in the first and second formats. A processing means in the apparatus according to the first aspect of the invention or the system according to the second aspect of the invention may based on failure characteristics stored in a memory construct the data stream so that a user experiences a continuous and fluent reproduction of the selected digital data.

In general may the various aspects of the invention may be combined and coupled in any way possible within the scope of the invention.

These and other aspects features and or advantages of the invention will be apparent from and elucidated with reference to the embodiments described hereinafter.

The present invention may be used in connection with playback from BD ROM media. In the embodiments described hereafter an apparatus or player reads digital data from a medium and the digital data is reproduced so that one or more users may view the data. In a typical situation of use is the digital data present on a BD ROM medium however data may also be provided to the apparatus by other means. The data may be provided internally from an internal source e.g. such as from a BD ROM or other storage medium. Another storage medium may include portable hard disks or other types of magnetic and or semiconductor storage media. The data may however also be provided externally from an external source e.g. through a wire or wireless connection to the Internet an Intranet or to an external computer an external storage means etc. This embodiment is however only described for exemplary reasons and should not be taken as a limitation of the scope of the invention. The invention may be used in connection with any suitable device implementation.

An embodiment of the conceptual logical format in which the present invention may be applied is illustrated in . This conceptual logical format is however shown only for exemplary reasons and should not be taken as a limitation of the scope of the invention. The invention may be used in connection with any suitable conceptual logical format.

Digital data D D may be present in a first format D and in an at least second format D. In the following only the situation of two formats is explained it is however to be understood that more than two formats may be present. The digital data may be present in a movie format D such as a format used in connection with high definition TV HDTV and in a digital AV data format D e.g. an MPEG format a DivX format or other standard digital movie formats an application format such as a JAVA application format or any type of application format etc. Control systems C and C are associated with reproduction or playback of the two formats. The first control system C is used when the system is operable in a first mode whereas the second control system is used when the system is operable in a second mode. The first mode may be a non programmable mode it is referred to in the following as the movie mode and it may be designed for movie playback simple animation and menu graphics. The second mode may be a programmable mode which in the following is referred to as the enhanced or full mode and it may be designed for programmable applications such as JAVA applications where the reproducing apparatus the player is comprising a JAVA virtual machine with additional APIs for controlling the A V playback of the disk. The logical format supports a number of applications illustrates five applications an example of a set of applications may be JAVA games JAVA edutainment Access to electronic publications Web access and high definition HD movie playback . The first mode may provide access only to the move playback movie mode where movie data in the first format is reproduced by an apparatus supporting the movie mode. The second mode may provide access to all applications full mode where application data for a number of applications is stored in the second format and where the different applications may be reproduced by an apparatus supporting the full mode. A single apparatus may support both the first and the second mode.

The system comprising the two modes is envisioned in connection with bringing the BD standard to the market. The first generation BD ROM players might only support the movie mode part of the standard v1.0 these are expected on the market in 2005. The full mode players v1.1 supporting both JAVA and movie mode are expected on the market at a later stage.

For system supporting the v1.1 JAVA mode this mode being a programmable mode one can expect that an application running in such a mode may crash. Experience with modern computer applications shows that applications crash for a number of reasons playback of pre recorded digital data on the other hand is more stable. Therefore in a situation where a JAVA application crashes a switching to the movie mode can be made. This is elucidated further in the following in connection with a number of embodiments describing situations of use for the present invention.

Having a system supporting two modes on the same medium requires a switching mechanism in the player so that the player e.g. as a result of a user interaction can switch between the two modes.

In the following is described an apparatus i.e. a player supporting both the v1.0 mode movie mode and the v1.1 mode full mode . schematically illustrates an index table to be used in the movie mode. and illustrate two examples of index tables to be used in the full mode.

A medium comprising data in the first format and second format may also include index tables used in connection with reproducing of the data. An index table is a file located on the disk which holds a list of the titles on the disk and applications associated with those titles. At least two index tables may be present one relating to the movie mode and at least one relating to the full mode. An index table relating to a movie mode where only entries relating to data in the first format is illustrated in . A first example of an index table relating to a full mode where entries relating to both data in the first format and data relating data in the second format is illustrated in . A second example of an index table relating to a full mode where only entries relating to data in the second format is illustrated in . Settings of the player may decide which of the index tables to use in connection with the first time use of a new medium.

In an embodiment is a medium provided with data of a movie. The medium comprises as an example two versions of a movie e.g. theatre version and director s cut version . These two versions are present in both the first format e.g. being a HD movie format and in the second format e.g. being MPEG versions of the movie. In addition is provided two versions of an introduction one version in the first format and one version in the second format. Furthermore is provided a game relating to the movie this game is provided only in the second format since it requires a programmable mode to be played.

The index table in the movie mode as illustrated in contains two movie titles T T that may be selected for playback. A title is played by executing a so called movie object M M. The movie objects are simple scripts with a few assembly language type commands. The player reads the index file upon request e.g. when a user insert the disk into the player or by other means of providing the data to the player. The index table as illustrated In has four entries FP first play which selects the first item the player should start a top or main menu M providing the overall user frame or user interface to the medium as well as the two titles T T. When a movie associated with a title finished the player may automatically resume execution of the main menu.

Full mode players are equipped with a JAVA virtual machine capable of executing JAVA applications also referred to as Xlets. The index table illustrated in contains entries T T which link to movie objects M M in the first format and entries FP T which link to Xlets X I in the second format. The index table is for the same disk as in only now also with an interactive JAVA portion. The third entry T is an interactive title which links to an Xlet I. The index table as illustrated in supports reproduction of movie objects in the first format however also another functionality is supported namely an interactive object such as a game associated to the movie. The index table illustrated in contains only entries which link to Xlets X X.

In a situation where a failure of an Xlet is detected during execution an application manager in the player ensures that the failure characteristics is registered i.e. relevant information about the state of the Xlet just before the failure. The failure characteristic may include such information as the playback position of the title. In a specific embodiment may the failure handling be done by calling relevant commands. For example a pause command may be called on the Xlet a pauseXlet . The pauseXlet command may ensure that the relevant information is registered. Subsequently may a resume command of the same title but in the v1.0 index table be called. This means that instead of the JAVA application the movie mode application will be started. By using the resume operation and the failure characteristics stored in the back up registers the movie mode application can be started to playback at the same position as where the failure of the JAVA application was detected.

In is an illustrated an example where a movie T is reproduced by means of an Xlet X. The Xlet however crashed in the middle of the movie e.g. in the video segment referred to by reference numeral . The player stores the current playback values into a backup register. It then calls the same title M using the corresponding v1.0 index table as illustrated in using the values stored in the backup register. Consequently playback is resumed from the same location as where the Xlet had crashed. The switching from the selected full mode in which a failure has occurred to the operable movie mode may be done automatically. The playback may continue without the user noticing it or with the user noticing only a brief pause.

In a situation where a failure is detected for an Xlet X being a first play object FP pointing to the main menu M may the corresponding first play movie object M in the corresponding movie mode be executed. In an other situation where a failure is detected for an Xlet having no corresponding counterpart in the movie mode e.g. for a game I may the first play object X be executed and the functionality relating to the Xlet be removed.

To prevent the title from crashing again when the disk is used a second time the player may generate a new v1.1 index table. This index table can be stored in a memory e.g. in a local persistent storage of the player. An updated index table is illustrated in where the Xlet X that crashed is replaced by a reference to the corresponding movie object M in the corresponding v1.0 index table. The next time the disk is played in the player will the updated index table be used and thus the title is repaired permanently. The failure characteristics is thus taken into account so that a reproduction of the data of which a failure was detected in a first session is made possible in a second session by replacing the digital data in the second format by the digital data in the first format. A session being a situation of use i.e. a viewing session of a movie.

The apparatus according to the present invention may be an apparatus of the consumer electronic type. The present invention may however also be a system of modules which may provide the functionality of the present invention in any suitable way.

In is a schematic illustration of at least some aspects of the present invention. Digital data can be accessed in at least two formats D D. A selection is made in order to select which format to reproduce and thereby to select a mode of reproduction. The mode of reproduction is monitored in order to ensure operability of the selected mode and in case a failure is detected a switching to an operable mode is made. An output of data for reproduction is thereby ensured irrespectively of a failure of the selected mode of reproduction.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with preferred embodiments it is not intended to be limited to the specific form set forth herein. Rather the scope of the present invention is limited only by the accompanying claims.

In this section certain specific details of the disclosed embodiment such as data formats application types etc. are set forth for purposes of explanation rather than limitation so as to provide a clear and thorough understanding of the present invention. However it should be understood readily by those skilled in this art that the present invention may be practiced in other embodiments which do not conform exactly to the details set forth herein without departing significantly from the spirit and scope of this disclosure. Further in this context and for the purposes of brevity and clarity detailed descriptions of well known apparatus circuits and methodology have been omitted so as to avoid unnecessary detail and possible confusion.

Reference signs are included in the claims however the inclusion of the reference signs is only for clarity reasons and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the claims.

