---

title: Method of creating barrier to fluid flow under concrete surface coat of concrete floor
abstract: A barrier to fluid passage is embedded within, instead of atop, porous material to retain the durability of the surface of the porous material. In one embodiment, a thin set mortar is applied to a concrete slab. A pleated metal foil is pressed into the wet mortar and a bond is established. The mortar is allowed to set and a top, or finish, section of concrete is then poured over the foil and finished conventionally. Provisions are made for sealing expansion joints in concrete slab floors and at the juncture of floor and wall. The foil may be provided in multiple layers to provide a mechanical bond via mortar oozing through perforations or along pleats in each of the top and bottoms layers, while providing a solid layer through which a fluid will not pass, at least in one direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07284357&OS=07284357&RS=07284357
owner: United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07284357
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060307
---
This application is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 715 430 Embedded Barrier to Fluid Flow by McInerney et al. filed Nov. 19 2003 and incorporated herein by reference.

Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to the entire right title and interest therein of any patent granted thereon by the United States. This patent and related ones are available for licensing. Contact Bea Shahin at 217 373 7234 or Phillip Stewart at 601 634 4113.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 286 279 Method for Attaching Fabric and Floor Covering Materials to Concrete to Bean et al. Sep. 11 2001 and incorporated herein by reference teaches bonding a thin metal plate or metal foil to a concrete surface to effect a barrier to water vapor transfer. The configuration of the 279 patent improves the maintenance of the bond between a concrete surface and various types of floor coverings. The 279 patent teaches two systems for implementing the barrier one uses a single layered thin metal plate or metal foil that is folded to produce recesses much like corrugated sheet metal. One side of the foil is attached to the concrete surface using a Portland cement based thin set grout. A second embodiment employs a two part thin metal plate or foil. A first lower part is perforated or slit and expanded and attached to a second solid upper part. The lower perforated part is embedded in a layer of thin set mortar on the concrete to anchor it to the concrete. The thin set mortar that oozes through the perforations also serves as a mechanical bond a cementitious rivet supplementing the chemical bond made along the contact surface.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention is an improvement on the 279 patent in that it allows the thin metal plate or metal foil to be embedded just below the surface of the underlayment concrete in the case of a poured slab so that there is a layer e.g. concrete both above and below the thin metal plate or metal foil. That is a robust finish surface e.g. concrete is placed above the thin metal plate or metal foil thus presenting a durable surface of conventional appearance. One advantage of this design is the ability of the surface to resist moisture flow from without while accommodating typical use e.g. that of hard wheeled vehicles that would otherwise damage vinyl or carpet floor coverings.

A fluid or vapor barrier is encapsulated within a durable structure to preclude passage of fluid in at least one direction while retaining the durability of a surface of a structure that conventionally does not contain such a barrier.

A first preferred embodiment of the present invention employs a two part folded thin metal or composite plate or metal or composite solid un perforated foil such as provided in the 279 patent but embedded just below the top surface of a durable surface such as an underlayment typically a concrete slab or floor.

Alternatively a second preferred embodiment of the present invention employs a two part thin metal plate or metal foil differing from that of the 279 patent in that the second or top layer of metal is a perforated thin plate or metal foil. The perforations on the top side of the second top layer serve to facilitate the formation of a mechanical bond via the concrete oozing through the perforations and acting as a cementitious rivet between the top side of the second layer and the bottom side of the surface of the underlayment above this second top layer. This mechanical bond acts in addition to any chemical bond formed between the bottom side of the underlayment surface and the remainder of the upper surface of this second top perforated layer. This second preferred embodiment must employ a solid thin metal plate or metal foil as a first bottom layer to block passage of moisture through the path provided by the underlayment material typically concrete that upon installation oozed through the perforations in the second top layer of perforated thin metal plate or metal foil. That is if a perforated second top layer of a two part thin metal plate or metal foil is used to achieve a better bond then the first bottom layer must be solid and conversely if a perforated first bottom layer is used then the second top layer must be solid.

Alternatively a third preferred embodiment of the present invention employs a three part thin metal plate or metal foil differing from that of the 279 patent in that a solid center foil or thin metal plate has an expanded metal foil or thin metal plate e.g. pleated foil applied to both sides. Application of the top and bottom pleated foils or thin pleated metal plates may be by way of spot welding in one embodiment. This results in a three layered system that provides opportunity for the adhesive e.g. thin set mortar to infiltrate slots in the lower foil or thin metal plate positioned over the adhesive immediately applied to an existing slab while the expanded foil or thin metal plate attached to the top of this three layer version establishes a similar mechanical and chemical bond to the overlaid concrete that forms a surface e.g. concrete flooring. This particular embodiment also aids in resisting curling of an overlaid concrete layer that provides a durable surface for use by hard wheeled vehicles.

A preferred method of applying a first preferred embodiment of the present invention to an existing porous surface such as cured concrete comprises 

Note that if concrete is used as a finish layer consolidation of this covering concrete must be done with care to avoid loosening the foil bonded to the adhesive e.g. thin set mortar.

As an alternative seams between the pieces sheets of the folded or pleated thin metal plate or folded or pleated metal foil may be sealed with flexible commercially available room temperature vulcanizing RTV products appropriate for use in alkaline environments. As a further alternative employing accordion style pleats at edges of the thin metal plate or metal foil accommodates panel movement while avoiding tearing or breaking the folded thin metal plate or folded metal foil should the installed surface move under load. Of course this method is not limited to existing installations but may be employed upon initial installation of an underlayment or wall.

In installing a second preferred embodiment the above method of installation may be applied using a two part thin metal plate or metal foil having a first bottom layer and a second top layer instead of a single folded thin metal plate or folded metal foil.

In another method of installing the second preferred embodiment a two part thin metal plate or two part metal foil is used in which the second top layer incorporates perforations and the first bottom layer is solid.

In yet another method of installing the second preferred embodiment the immediately above method of installation may be applied using a two part thin metal plate or two part metal foil in which the first bottom layer incorporates perforations and the second top layer is solid.

Finally the above method of installation may be applied using the third preferred embodiment a three layer sandwich comprising top and bottom layers of perforated folded or pleated foil or thin metal covering a solid middle layer of foil or thin metal. The top and bottom layers may be joined to the solid center layer by any of a number of suitable processes e.g. tack welding.

Embodiments of the present invention are not limited to underlayments but may be used on vertical or slanted surfaces where protection from fluid intrusion is desired. Further a one way vapor barrier may be installed to prevent intrusion of fluids while permitting expulsion of the same fluids or vapors. Instead of a metal foil or thin metal plate a special breathing material such as those marketed under the trademark GORETEX liquid impermeable moisture vapor transmissive material may be used in place of metal. This would have particular application in below grade applications such as basement floors or walls and in environments of high humidity such as kitchens or bathroom floors or walls that otherwise sweat. In addition to embedding the GORETEX liquid impermeable moisture vapor transmissive material lining in concrete on a slab it could be embedded just beneath a porous outer stucco or similar coating to achieve the same effect as the metal barrier does in the underlayment while also permitting out gassing of vapors from within the room.

Embodiments of the present invention may be used in any application where it is necessary to prevent the movement of fluids liquid or gas through porous material such as concrete. Specifically embodiments may be used to block the movement of water vapor and will be equally effective in preventing the movement of stable gases such as radon through porous material such as concrete.

The embedded barrier of the present invention in all of its preferred embodiments is unique in its implementation. For example conventionally a concrete slab has been sealed by pre placing a polymer membrane under the slab prior to placing the new concrete. Once the concrete slab had been installed the slab could be further sealed only at its top surface. This sealing of the top surface has been accomplished conventionally by using epoxy fiberglass or combinations of fiberglass and epoxy leaving a surface that was less durable than a concrete surface.

Further advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the description below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which like numbers indicate like elements.

Refer to A B and A. Provided is a method of implementing a fluid barrier within porous material such as concrete. In a preferred embodiment a barrier panel in one embodiment including pleats and having pleated edges is placed between a base of porous material such as a concrete slab and an emplaced topmost section of durable material such as concrete thus creating a topmost surface suitable for use by wheeled traffic. A single layer plate or foil with pleats and related spacings between the pleats may be used as an embedded fluid barrier such as shown at . Also shown at are depictions of the adhesive as it forms in the valleys between pleats and the formation of anchoring portions of the initially flowable top layer as it is placed on the surface of a pleated single layer panel of the configuration at .

Refer to B and . Also provided in a preferred embodiment of the present invention is a configuration such as shown in or the configuration shown in implementing a barrier to fluid flow in at least one direction and enclosed within porous material. Either configuration uses a durable top section applied over the barrier panel placed upon adhesive coated on a first section of the porous material. Either configuration is thus made suitable for routine use by wheeled traffic. Both configurations comprise 

In a preferred embodiment of the configuration the barrier is a vapor barrier embedded i.e. completely enclosed in porous material. The non porous material used for the panels may be selected from a metal a metal alloy a steel alloy a stainless steel a composite material a composite material containing at least some metal and combinations thereof.

In a preferred embodiment of the configuration the non porous material comprises at least one metal and the porous material comprises at least some concrete. Further the adhesive may be a thin set mortar applied to a thickness of about 6 mm inch . In a preferred embodiment of the configuration in which the porous material at least partially comprises concrete the topmost section may comprise concrete applied to a thickness of about 2.5 cm 1 inch or more.

Refer to . In a preferred embodiment of the configuration a seal comprises a continuous bead of a flexible sealant applied along the entire length between all overlapped edges of the panels . A preferred embodiment of flexible sealant is a RTV sealant.

Refer to B and B. In a preferred embodiment of the configuration the panels are plates of a total thickness less than about 6 mm inch . In an alternate preferred embodiment the panel comprises a first perforated plate in contact with a second solid plate i.e. a two layer panel each of the first and second plates being of a total thickness of less than about 3 mm inch . A preferred configuration places a first perforated plate layer immediately adjacent the bottom side of the topmost section e.g. the finish layer of concrete. A generic two layer configuration representing this preferred configuration is shown in . The first perforated plate would be placed at in and the second solid plate at in .

Refer to B and B. In an alternate preferred embodiment of the configuration the panels comprise a multi layer foil of a thickness less than about 2 mm 0.08 inch and preferably in the range of about 0.5 1.5 mm 20 60 mils and may be represented as in as a perforated foil such as depicted in at at and a solid foil such as depicted in at at . Each of the foil layers in a two layer foil used in a preferred embodiment of the present invention has a total thickness of less than about 1 mm 0.04 inch and preferably in the range of about 0.25 0.76 mm 10 30 mils .

Refer to A A and B. In yet another preferred embodiment the configuration employs panels comprising three layers two identical configurations as shown at and a single flat configuration as shown at . In the adhesive is shown as it oozes into the folds of the foil or thin metal from the layers of porous material not shown separately in above and below the foil or thin metal configuration . In by contrast the adhesive is emplaced to adhere to the portion of the thin foil or thin metal configuration in direct contact with a separate middle layer as described immediately below. These configurations may be metal or composite foil or thin metal or composite sheets or plates. The top and bottom layers of the three layer panel may be perforated a solid that is folded or pleated and combinations thereof while the middle layer must be solid if both the top and bottom layers are perforated. As foils the layers each may be of a thickness less than 1.0 mm 40 mils and more preferably less than about 0.76 mm 30 mils and most preferably in a range of thickness from about 0.25 0.76 mm 10 30 mils .

Employing this method i.e. providing one or more adhesive layers upon a surface of a base of porous material placing barrier panels of one or more layers such as layers depicted at upon the topmost layer of adhesive establishing a seal between the overlapped edges of the panels and emplacing a topmost section to encapsulate the panels implements a fluid barrier within porous material preferably durable porous material such as concrete.

Refer to . In one preferred method the adhesive may then be allowed to set or cure prior to installing a finish layer over the plate or foil . Not all methods may require curing of the adhesive prior to the finish step however. The finish layer may be a poured fluid such as concrete such that the concrete oozes into the spaces between the channels as shown at thus facilitating a strong bond between the plate or foil and the finish layer . For those underlayments that are exposed to heavy traffic including hard wheeled vehicles for example the finish layer may be relatively thick concrete. In one preferred embodiment the result is a multi layered configuration that achieves an effective moisture and vapor barrier to fluid ingress from beneath the underlayment while permitting heavy traffic on its concrete finished surface .

The method of emplacing a fluid barrier within porous material extends to establishing a vapor barrier in porous material. The vapor barrier may be a one way barrier such that the configuration is permitted to breathe or outgas in one direction while establishing and maintaining a fluid barrier in the opposite direction.

In a preferred embodiment of a method of implementation of the present invention the method employs non porous material comprising at least one metal and the porous material comprises at least some concrete. Further the topmost adhesive layer may be a thin set mortar applied to a thickness of about 6 mm 0.25 inch . In a preferred embodiment in which the porous material at least partially comprises concrete the topmost section may comprise concrete applied to a thickness of about 2.5 cm 1.0 inch or more.

Refer to B and . In a preferred embodiment of a method of implementing the present invention a seal may be established at least in part by applying a continuous bead of a flexible sealant along the entire length between all overlapped edges of the panels . A preferred embodiment of flexible sealant is a RTV sealant. In applications where concrete is to be applied as a finishing layer the RTV sealant should be suitable for use in alkaline environments.

Refer to A B and B. In a preferred method of implementing the present invention the panels comprise multiple layers of plates of a total thickness less than about 6 mm 0.25 inch . In an alternate preferred method the panels comprise a perforated plate as a first layer the perforated plate having evenly spaced perforations on its interior surface and abutted about its entire surface area to a second solid plate as a second layer the solid plate having a solid interior surface and each of the first and second plates being of a total thickness of less than about 3 mm 0.125 inch . A preferred method is to place the first perforated plate immediately adjacent the bottom side of the topmost section as shown at in the configuration of .

Refer to B and B. In an alternate preferred method the method employs panels comprising multi layer foil of a thickness less than about 4 mm 0.16 inch and more preferably less than about 2.5 mm 100 mils and most preferably about 0.5 mm to 1.5 mm 20 60 mils . In yet another alternate preferred method the panels comprise a first perforated foil as a first layer of a two layer foil the second layer being a solid foil . Each of the first and second foil layers has a total thickness of less than about 2 mm 80 mils and more preferably less than about 0.76 mm 30 mils and most preferably about 0.25 mm to 0.76 mm 10 30 mils . In a preferred embodiment the first perforated foil is placed immediately adjacent the bottom side of the topmost section as shown at .

Refer to A A and B. In yet another preferred embodiment the method employs panels comprising three layers two identical configurations as shown at and a single flat configuration as shown at . These may be metal or composite foil or thin metal or composite sheets or plates. The three layers are bonded together by any of a number of suitable means such as by gluing heating applying pressure soldering tack welding or combinations of the above. The top and bottom layers of the three layer panel may be perforated a solid that is folded or pleated and combinations thereof while the middle layer must be solid if both the top and bottom layers are perforated. As foils the layers each may be provided in a thickness less than 1.0 mm 40 mils and more preferably less than about 0.76 mm 30 mils and most preferably in a range in thickness from about 0.25 0.76 mm 10 30 mils .

Refer to . Some installations of underlayments such as a concrete slab applied over a prepared base such as an aggregate incorporate embedded expansion joints. A preferred embodiment of the present invention incorporates a sealed expansion joint between each of the overlaid top sections and a corresponding portion of the underlayment . This sealed expansion joint comprises a pleated non porous strip that is placed over the adhesive at the expansion joint to overlap the entire length of each side of the expansion joint below the installed panels that may be thin metal or composite plates or foil layers each overlap of a width less than about 5.0 cm 2.0 inches . The strip is then sealed with an appropriate sealant as shown at along each longitudinal edge of the strip between the top surface of the edge of the strip and the bottom of each panel abutting the expansion joint . A preferred embodiment employs a continuous bead of flexible sealant such as an RTV applied along the entire length of the expansion joint .

Refer to B and B. depicts the perforated piece of a two piece thin metal plate or foil structure shown installed in at . The perforations in the main part of this perforated piece facilitate bonding of the metal plate or foil structure to either the adhesive layer or the overlaying finish layer as shown in the resultant multi layered structure of . The solid piece of the two piece thin metal plate or foil is shown installed as one of the layers in at . The configuration of facilitates additional mechanical bonding of the two piece plate to either the adhesive layer or the finish layer but not both while providing a solid interface to prevent moisture or vapor flow from beneath the underlayment . A preferred method of installation is to mount the perforated piece against the finish layer and the solid piece against the adhesive layer . In the case of a concrete finish layer this provides protection for the mechanical bond developed by the concrete as it oozes into the perforations in the perforated piece since no moisture or vapor passes through the solid piece mounted next to the adhesive layer for example thin set mortar in the case of a concrete underlayment . Although the perforations are shown as circular holes in other means of perforation may be used. For example the perforated piece may comprise metal screen material very similar to that used in screening windows to prevent insect ingress a wire mesh or combinations of types of perforations. Also shown in are alternative edges that facilitate flexion of the installed two piece plate or foil in much the same manner as described above for the one piece configuration of . The two pieces may be joined together prior to installation by any of a number of means such as application of adhesive to parts of their adjoining surfaces mechanically pressing edges together soldering welding and combinations of these means. Further the two pieces may be installed separately and either joined as would be done in methods described above for joining prior to installation or simply placed one above the other as part of the installation with the weight of the finish layer and the adhesion of the adhesive layer serving to maintain proper alignment. Adjacent two piece plates or foils may be connected in the same manner as for the one piece plates or foils as described above.

Refer to . Expansion joints provide for movement of underlayment in many cases. A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides for bridging these joints while sealing the joint from moisture or vapor and avoiding tearing the underlying metal plate or foil . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention a separate flexible and expandable bridge is provided for bridging expansion joints in underlayments above a sub grade . This bridge may be a long narrow section of thin metal plate or foil similar to that used as the moisture and vapor barrier. The longitudinal edges are flat while the center section is accordion shaped or pleated to permit movement. These bridges are installed over and bond to the adhesive layer at the expansion joint prior to installation of the thin metal plate or foil . The bridges are then bonded to the thin metal plate or foil via any of a number of suitable means such as the application of a continuous bead of a flexible sealant e.g. any of various commercial RTV sealants suited to the application.

Refer to . In much the same way as expansion joints are provided for in underlayments the joint between a floor and a wall is also subject to movement and a preferred embodiment of the present invention provides for addressing this joint also. The bridge used in this application is affixed at one end to the underlayment in the same manner as for the in floor expansion joint . The bridge is bent at a right angle to permit installation along the adjoining wall to a point just above the top of the finish layer . A bead of suitable flexible sealant such as any of a number of commercial RTV sealants is applied along the entire length of the bridge at the wall .

The abstract of the disclosure is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described in terms of its preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example although the system is described in specific examples related to concrete structure it may be adapted to other porous construction materials such as drywall chipboard wood tile composites and combinations thereof. Thus it is intended that all matter contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative rather than limiting and the invention should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

