---

title: System and method of controlling a graphical user interface at a wireless device
abstract: A method of controlling a graphical user interface (GUI) at a wireless device is disclosed and includes storing a set of audio GUI controls at an interactive voice response server and creating an audio GUI control string that is to be communicated to the wireless device within a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string that is selectably presentable at the wireless device. Further, the method can include embedding the audio GUI control string within the voice stream. Additionally, the method can include transmitting the voice stream with the embedded audio GUI control string to the wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08582729&OS=08582729&RS=08582729
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08582729
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060224
---
The present disclosure generally relates to wireless devices. More particularly the disclosure relates to controlling a graphical user interface within a wireless device.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful wireless devices. For example there currently exist a variety of wireless devices including mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptops and paging devices that are small lightweight and easily carried by users. These devices may include the ability to transmit voice and or data over wireless networks. Further many such wireless devices provide significant computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

Typically these smaller and more powerful wireless devices are often resource constrained. For example the screen size the amount of available memory and file system space and the amount of input and output capabilities may be limited by the small size of the device. Because of such severe resource constraints it is can be desirable to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such wireless devices.

Some of these wireless devices utilize application programming interfaces APIs that are sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms. The APIs can be installed onto a wireless device to simplify the operation and programming of such wireless devices by providing generalized calls for device resources. Further some APIs can provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are executable on such wireless devices. In addition APIs can provide an interface between a wireless device system hardware and the software applications. As such the wireless device functionality can be made available to the software applications by allowing the software to make a generic call for a function thus not requiring the developer to tailor its source code to the individual hardware or device on which the software is executing. Further some APIs can provide mechanisms for secure communications between wireless devices such as client devices and server systems using secure cryptographic key information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include those currently publicly available versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. The BREW platform can provide one or more interfaces to particular hardware and software features found on wireless devices.

Further the BREW platform can be used in an end to end software distribution system to provide a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and wireless device manufacturers and consumers. One such currently available end to end software distribution system called the BREW solution developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated includes logic distributed over a server client architecture wherein the server can perform billing security and application distribution functionality and wherein the client can perform application execution security and user interface functionality.

In certain cases the wireless devices can be used to communicate with servers that interact using interactive voice response applications. For example a user can use the wireless device to listen to a recorded message that includes a plurality of options. A user can select a desired option and receive another recorded message associated with the selected option. Typically the user responses to the recorded messages from the interactive voice response application are input via a keypad at the wireless device. For example a user may select an option by pressing a numerical key on the wireless device keypad. As such a user has to place the wireless device near his or her ear to listen to the recorded message and then take the wireless device away from his or her ear in order to respond by pressing a button on the key pad.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an improved system and method of controlling a graphical user interface at a wireless device.

A method of controlling a graphical user interface GUI at a wireless device is disclosed and includes storing a set of audio GUI controls at an interactive voice response server and creating an audio GUI control string that is to be communicated to the wireless device within a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string that is selectably presentable at the wireless device.

In a particular embodiment the method includes embedding the audio GUI control string within the voice stream. Further in another particular embodiment the method includes receiving a call from the wireless device. In yet another particular embodiment the method includes transmitting the voice stream with the embedded audio GUI control string to the wireless device.

In a particular embodiment the set of audio GUI controls includes a plurality of signals. Each of the plurality of signals is a different one of a plurality of selectively audio frequencies and each of the plurality of signals corresponds to a different GUI control at the wireless device. Further the plurality of selectively audio frequencies includes twenty six different frequencies and each of the twenty six different frequencies corresponds to a unique alphabetical character that is displayable at the wireless device. Additionally the plurality of selectively audio frequencies further includes ten different frequencies and each of the ten different frequencies corresponds to a unique numerical character that is displayable at the wireless device.

In another embodiment a method of controlling a user interface at a wireless device is disclosed and includes creating an audio GUI control string to be embedded within a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string that is presentable at the user interface at the wireless device. In this embodiment the method further includes embedding the audio GUI control string within the voice stream.

In yet another embodiment a method of communicating with an interactive voice response server is disclosed and includes receiving a voice stream and determining whether an audio GUI control string is embedded within the voice stream.

In still another embodiment a method of communicating with an interactive voice response server is disclosed and includes receiving a query from an interactive voice response server to determine whether a wireless device is controllable via audio GUI controls.

In yet still another embodiment a communication system is disclosed and includes an interactive voice response server that is remotely coupled to a wireless device. The interactive voice response server includes a processor a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor and a computer program that is embedded within the computer readable medium. The computer program includes instructions to define a set of audio GUI controls instructions to store the set of audio GUI controls at the computer readable medium and instructions to create an audio GUI control string to be communicated to with voice data within a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string to be displayed at the wireless device.

In another embodiment a communication system is disclosed and an interactive voice response server to receive calls from a wireless device. The interactive voice response server includes a processor a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor and a computer program that is embedded within the computer readable medium. The computer program includes instructions to create an audio GUI control string to be communicated to with voice data within a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string to be displayed at the wireless device. Additionally the computer program includes instructions to embed the audio GUI control string within the voice stream.

In yet another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes a processor a display that is responsive to the processor and a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor. A computer program is embedded within the computer readable medium and includes instructions to present a GUI at the display wherein the GUI is controllable via one or more audio GUI controls received at the wireless device over a voice channel.

In still another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes a processor and a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor. A computer program is embedded within the computer readable medium and includes instructions to receive a query from an interactive voice response server to determine whether the wireless device is controllable via audio GUI controls.

In still yet another embodiment a computer program that is embedded within a computer readable medium is disclosed and includes instructions to define a set of audio GUI controls instructions to store the set of audio GUI controls at an interactive voice response server and instructions to create an audio GUI control string that corresponds to voice data to be communicated over a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string that is selectively displayable at a wireless device.

In another embodiment a computer program that is embedded within a computer readable medium is disclosed and includes instructions to create an audio GUI control string that corresponds to voice data of a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string that is selectively displayable at a wireless device. Moreover the computer program includes instructions to embed the audio GUI control string within the voice stream.

In still another embodiment a computer program that is embedded within a computer readable medium is disclosed and includes instructions to receive a voice stream and instructions to determine whether an audio GUI control string is embedded within the voice stream.

In yet another embodiment an interactive voice response server is disclosed and includes means for defining a set of audio GUI controls means for storing the set of audio GUI controls at an interactive voice response server and means for creating an audio GUI control string that corresponds to voice data within a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string that is selectively displayable at a wireless device.

In another embodiment an interactive voice response server is disclosed and includes means for creating an audio GUI control string that corresponds to voice data within a voice stream. The audio GUI control string corresponds to a text string that is selectively displayable at a wireless device. The interactive voice response server further includes means for embedding the audio GUI control string within the voice stream.

In still yet another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for receiving a voice stream and means for determining whether an audio GUI control string is embedded within the voice stream.

In another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for receiving a query from the interactive voice response server to determine whether the wireless device is controllable via audio GUI controls.

An advantage of one or more of embodiments disclosed herein can include allowing visual interaction with an interactive voice response server.

Still another advantage can include presenting text at a GUI that corresponds to voice data received via a voice stream.

Other aspects advantages and features of the present disclosure will become apparent after review of the entire application including the following sections Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a wireless device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein could be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both.

Further the embodiments described herein can additionally be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform a certain action or code operable to perform the described action. The following detailed description describes methods systems software and apparatus used in connection with one or more wireless devices.

In one or more embodiments a wireless device may utilize a runtime environment such as a version of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. In at least one embodiment in the following description the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers is implemented on a wireless device executing a runtime environment such as the current version of the BREW platform. However one or more embodiments of the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers are suitable for use with other types of runtime environments that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless devices.

As illustrated in the wireless device can be a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant a pager or a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal. In a particular embodiment the pager can be a two way text pager. Further in an alternative embodiment the wireless device can have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The exemplary non limiting system can include any form of a remote module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers access terminals telephones with or without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

As depicted in the application download server is coupled to a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . The system includes a second server and a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network . Further as indicated in the system also includes at least one stored application database that stores software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices . Different embodiments are contemplated that locate logic to perform secure communications at any one or more of the application download server the second server and the stand alone server .

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates the system including the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the system . The system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as the wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as server are compatible with wireless communication services and can communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In an illustrative embodiment the server contains a server security module that further contains logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the server security module can operate in conjunction with a client security module located on a wireless device such as wireless devices to provide secure communications.

The carrier network controls messages sent as data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS network transfers voice information. The MSC is connected to multiple base transceiver stations BTS . The MSC can be connected to the BTS by both a data network for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as to wireless telephone by the short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art.

The wireless device has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device. The ASIC or other processor can execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory ROM or RAM EEPROM flash memory or any other memory suitable for computer platforms.

The API also includes a client security module containing logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the client security module can operate in conjunction with the server security module to provide secure communications. As illustrated in the computer platform can further include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . In an illustrative embodiment the local database is stored within a flash memory cell but it can be stored within any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape or floppy or hard disk.

A wireless device e.g. the wireless telephone can download one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like from the application download server . Further the wireless device can store the downloaded applications in the local database when not in use and can load stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution by the API when desired by the user. Further communications over the wireless network may be performed in a secure manner at least in part due to the interaction and operation of the client security module and the server security module . As shown in the API can also include a global positioning system GPS module and a reminder module . Further the API can include a graphical user interface GUI module . In a particular embodiment the GUI module can cause a GUI to be displayed at the display of a wireless device . Further the GUI module can receive one or more audio GUI controls and apply those controls to the GUI in order to control the GUI.

Additionally in a particular embodiment either wireless device can decode the voice data within the voice stream and transmit the voice data to a user via a speaker within the wireless device . Further either wireless device can decode the audio GUI control string and apply the controls within the GUI control string to a graphical user interface within the wireless device . In an illustrative embodiment the GUI control string can cause the GUI within the wireless device to create a text message at the wireless device that corresponds to the voice message within the voice data.

As illustrated in the interactive voice response server can include a processor and a computer readable medium e.g. a memory that is accessible to the processor . In a particular embodiment a computer program e.g. an IVR application can be embedded within the computer readable medium and can be used to provide a voice stream to the wireless devices . More particularly when either wireless device initiates communication with the interactive voice response server the wireless device can perform a handshake with the interactive voice response server in order to determine the audio GUI controls defined by the interactive voice response server . Further during the handshake the interactive voice response server can query the wireless device in order to ascertain whether the wireless device can be controlled via the audio GUI controls defined by the interactive voice response server .

Referring to a method of controlling a GUI is shown and commences at block . At block a set of audio GUI controls is defined at an interactive voice response server. In a particular embodiment the set of audio GUI controls include a plurality of audio signals. Further in a particular embodiment each of the plurality of audio signals are at a different one of a plurality of selectable audio frequencies and each of the plurality of audio signals corresponds to a different control at the wireless device.

In another particular embodiment the plurality of audio frequencies includes twenty six different frequencies and each of the twenty six different frequencies corresponds to a different alphabetical character that can be displayed at the wireless device. Additionally the plurality of audio frequencies can further include ten different frequencies and each of the ten different frequencies corresponds to a different numerical character that can be displayed at the wireless device. Moreover the plurality of audio frequencies can include other frequencies that can cause the pixels of a graphical user interface to turn on and off in response to the frequencies.

Proceeding to block the audio GUI controls are stored at a memory within at the interactive voice response server. At block the interactive voice response server creates an audio GUI control string that corresponds to a voice message that can be transmitted by the interactive voice response server to a wireless device after the wireless device calls the interactive voice response server. Next at block the interactive voice response server embeds the audio GUI control string within a voice stream that can be transmitted to a wireless device.

Moving to block the interactive voice response server receives a call from a wireless device. At block the interactive voice response server transmits a voice stream that includes encoded voice data and the embedded audio GUI control string. Continuing to decision step the interactive voice response server determines whether the call has ended. If the call has ended the method ends at state . Otherwise if the call has not ended the method returns to block and continues as described herein.

Moving to block the interactive voice response server receives a call from a wireless device. Thereafter at decision step the interactive voice response server determines whether the wireless device is controllable using audio GUI controls. For example the interactive voice response server can query the wireless device in order to determine whether the wireless device can be controlled with the audio GUI controls.

If the wireless device can be controlled using audio GUI controls the method proceeds to block and the interactive voice response server transmits the audio GUI control definitions to the wireless device. Thereafter at block the interactive voice response server transmits a voice stream to the wireless device that includes encoded voice data and an audio GUI control string. In a particular embodiment the step depicted in block can be an optional step. In other words the interactive voice response server can transmit the audio GUI control string without transmitting the audio GUI control definitions. Continuing to decision step the interactive voice response server determines whether the call has ended. If the call has ended the method ends at state . Otherwise if the call has not ended the method returns to block and continues as described herein.

Returning to decision step if the wireless device cannot be controlled using audio GUI controls the method moves to block and the interactive voice response server transmits a voice stream with encoded voice data to the wireless device. Then the method then proceeds to decision step and continues as described herein.

Referring to another alternative method of controlling a GUI is shown and commences at block . At block a wireless device calls an interactive voice response server. Next at block the wireless device receives a voice stream. Moving to decision step the wireless device determines whether an audio GUI control string that includes one or more audio GUI controls is embedded within the voice stream. If so the method proceeds to block and the wireless device decodes the audio GUI control string. Thereafter at block the wireless device applies the audio GUI control string to the GUI within the wireless device. Then the method proceeds to block .

Returning to decision step if an audio GUI control string is not embedded within the voice stream the method proceeds to block and the wireless device decodes encoded voice data within the voice stream. At block the wireless device transmits the voice data to a user of the wireless device via a speaker incorporated within the wireless device. Proceeding to decision step the wireless device determines whether the call has ended. If the call has not ended the method proceeds to block and the wireless device continues to receive the voice stream from the interactive voice response server. On the other hand if the call has ended the method ends at state .

Moving to block the wireless device receives the audio GUI control definitions from the interactive voice response server. At block the wireless device receives a voice stream from the interactive voice response server. In a particular embodiment the voice stream includes voice data and an embedded audio GUI control string. Continuing to block the wireless device decodes the audio GUI control string based on the previously received definitions. Then at block the wireless device applies the audio GUI control string to a GUI within the wireless device. The method then moves to block .

Returning to decision step if the wireless device cannot be controlled by audio GUI controls the method proceeds to block and the wireless device indicates to the interactive voice response server that the wireless device cannot be controlled by audio GUI controls. Next at block the wireless device receives a voice stream from the interactive voice response server. In a particular embodiment the voice stream includes voice data. The method then proceeds to block .

At block the wireless device decodes the voice data within the voice stream. Then at block the wireless device transmits the voice data to a user e.g. using a speaker incorporated in the wireless device. Proceeding to decision step the wireless device determines whether the call has ended. If the call has not ended the method proceeds to block and the wireless device continues to receive the voice stream from the interactive voice response server. On the other hand if the call has ended the method ends at state .

Referring to a wireless device is shown and is generally designated . As shown the wireless device includes a display and a keypad . Further the wireless device includes a speaker and a microphone . Additionally the wireless device can include a text display area within the display .

In a particular embodiment as a voice stream is received at the wireless device voice data can be decoded and transmitted to a user via the speaker . Also an embedded audio GUI control string can be decoded and text that corresponds to the audio GUI control string can be presented within the text display area within the display . For example when a user communicates with a voice mail server e.g. to get voice mail messages a recorded message can be transmitted to the user. Further as the recorded message is transmitted to the user a text message corresponding to the recorded message can be presented to the user. As an example the text message can indicate You have reached voice mail service. You have no new messages. Alternatively the text message can prompt the user for an input e.g. To listen to old messages press one. 

With the configuration of structure disclosed herein the system and method can allow a user of a wireless device to interact with an interactive voice response server via a graphical user interface. A voice stream transmitted by the interactive voice response server can include an embedded audio GUI control string that can cause the graphical user interface to display a text message that corresponds to a recorded message within the voice stream. Accordingly a user can more efficiently navigate within an interactive voice response without having to listen to the interactive voice response.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory PROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a wireless device or a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a wireless device or user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features as defined by the following claims.

