---

title: Multi-source bridge content distribution system and method
abstract: A multi-source bridge content distribution system links multiple content owners with access network operators or content distribution providers leasing space on access networks so that multi-media content can be provided from multiple content owners to consumers through a multi-source bridge or data center. Content files and associated content owner preference settings are provided from a plurality of content sources or providers to the multi-source data center. Files stored at the data center or locally at an access network are provided to subscribers through the local access network Content files are provided if the content owner preference settings are a sufficient match with service provider access network preference settings set up by the service provider using the access network to provide content to subscribers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08191098&OS=08191098&RS=08191098
owner: Verimatrix, Inc.
number: 08191098
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061221
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 753 697 filed Dec. 22 2005 and U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 802 953 filed May 24 2006 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to delivery of multi media content into consumer s homes and is particularly concerned with a network architecture or multi source bridge network distribution system and method for integrating content from different sources and allowing the content to be offered by content distribution providers to end users over access networks.

There are huge battles being waged over the delivery of multi media content into consumer s homes. In addition to the incumbent cable and satellite offerings there are now offerings from telephone companies as they attempt to reinvent their businesses. In the near future there will be offerings from the large web portals such as Yahoo and Google. These web portals are currently searching for ways to bring content to consumers. However they have virtually no ownership to the access networks. An access network is a network that connects subscribers to telecommunication service providers over public ground. For example an access network may provide a route between the subscriber s home and an Internet Service Provider ISP itself. Access networks are used by the various consumers around the world.

The problem with all of these competing services is that it tends to fracture the content offerings. For example a consumer would need to go to a satellite service to get all of the football games on a given Sunday. At the same time the same consumer would need to go to the telephone company s Telco s service in order to get the latest in video on demand VOD content. Similarly the same consumer may need to go to the web to get the widest selection of documentaries. Finally this consumer may need to use the local cable service with its specific content offerings as the access network. As you can see the consumer is not well served in this scenario as all of the competing platforms are using and withholding content in order to promote their own branded services.

There are many important factors to consider when looking to ultimately satisfy the needs of the consumer for access to multi media content from various providers. Some of these factors are 

In addition to these items listed above it is also very important that the present day competitive environment stay intact as a monopoly or virtual monopoly in the area of Pay TV could cause significant problems to everyone concerned. For the consumer such a monopoly would limit the number of innovative solutions that are made available to the market and pricing models for various services may be kept prohibitively high. For content owners a monopoly could damage their ability to appropriately monetize their valuable content. Such a monopoly could also damage the distribution chain as there may be extreme pressure being exerted from both sides of the equation.

The problem in the market is well recognized by most consumers of television product. Even with more than 100 broadcast channels and hundreds of VOD titles there never seems to be anything interesting to watch on television TV . Given the enormous library of audio video content that s available today the consumer tends to be the unlikely victim of the wars between the various service providers. The consumer can be frustrated because an enormous amount of content is withheld due to a myriad of business and political reasons. Although it is understood that certain titles will be withheld in order to maximize the monetary potential within a dedicated channel of distribution there is no reason why the majority of all content be withheld. Rather it may be a better strategy to offer these huge libraries of content in such a way as all participants within the distribution chain profit from the experience.

When you look at the competitive landscape today one threat stands out. The large web portals could relegate the access network operators to being the broadband pipe only. This would mean a consumer uses his or her local access network to log on to the Internet and then all future content plays become transactions between the consumer and the web portal directly. There would be no cooperation or revenue sharing between the web portal and the access network operator. Therefore there is little or no motivation for the partners within the established content distribution chains to participate with the web portals.

Certain government agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission FCC in the US are constantly looking for ways to make the competitive landscape fair and to bring the best possible service offerings and value offerings to consumers. Although these agencies ultimately look to protect the consumer their efforts continue to fracture the various content offerings as well.

Although content owners world wide ultimately want to make the greatest return on their investment they have an equal interest in keeping the landscape competitive. If a huge company steps in and purchases the bulk of their content today this same company may drive down prices in the future after eliminating all competition . Although it is understandable that content owners would take steps to protect themselves from a potential monopolistic environment this further adds to the problem of fractured content offerings to consumers as described above.

Therefore what is needed is a system and method that overcomes these significant problems found in the conventional systems as described above.

Embodiments described herein provide for a managed network that integrates content from multiple sources and links to head end and billing systems operated by access network operators.

A method of distributing content from a plurality of different content sources to consumer or subscriber devices in one embodiment comprises receiving and storing content files from a plurality of different content sources at a multi source data center connecting the multi source data center to a plurality of multi source content distribution providers over a multi source network each multi source content distribution provider being linked to a respective group of subscribers via a network such as a local access network and providing the content of selected content files from the multi source data center to subscriber devices through the content distribution provider and network associated with each subscriber device.

In one embodiment a multi source bridge network system is provided which integrates and links content offerings from multiple sources to consumers via local access networks such as cable satellite and Telco TV operations. This system can allow service providers who own and operate access networks or distribution providers who rent or purchase capacity on access networks such as Internet service providers ISP platforms or other types of provider of video or audio services to provide huge libraries of content while being compensated for their efforts. The service or multi source distribution providers may advertise these various content offerings to their local communities further compensating the distribution chain.

The multi source content distribution system provides a multi source network for distributing content from multiple sources with a three tier approach Content owner to access network to consumer. The access networks may act as peer to peer nodes on such a network so content can move laterally from one access network to another as well as from the multi source data center to an access network.

A multi source content distribution network system in one embodiment comprises a plurality of multi source content distribution providers each associated with a different group of subscribers each content distribution provider having a network such as a local access network for distributing content to the respective subscriber group a multi source data center having a first communication module configured to communicate with a plurality of content providers a data storage module associated with the first communication module for receiving and storing content files from the content sources a second communication module configured to provide requested content files to the content distribution providers and a control module configured to control operation of the communication modules to receive and distribute content files and processing of content files for storage in the data storage module and a multi source network linking the multi source data center to the multi source distribution providers whereby content from a plurality of different content providers can be provided from the multi source data center to any subscriber through the associated multi source content distribution provider and network.

In one embodiment the control module includes a search engine which allows content distribution service providers or access network providers to search for content files in the multi source data base in response to consumer or subscriber requests from clients for specific content if the content is not available in an access network data base. The system may include preference modules or engines which contain content provider preference settings and access network content distribution provider preference settings. Content files are downloaded if content owner or provider preference settings are a sufficient match with service provider access network preference settings set up by the service provider using the access network to provide content to subscribers.

Up to four levels of preference settings may be provided in the system specifically content owner government or other organization access network and subscriber preference settings. The multi source data center may also link the billing systems of the content owner and the content distribution provider so that revenues can be appropriately shared.

For security purposes consumer level information may made available to the multi source data center by way of a proxy in which the consumer name is first converted to an identification code or number and the ID Number is sent to the data center.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

Certain embodiments as disclosed herein provide for integrating content from virtually any source and offering the content to consumers via access network providers or other distribution services using rented or purchased capacity on an access network. For example one embodiment as disclosed herein allows for a multi source network distribution system which coordinates preference settings of content providers and access networks to ensure that content from different sources can be provided to end user or distribution service providers under mutually acceptable terms.

After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. However although various embodiments of the present invention are described herein it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

DRM is typically referred to as a collection of properties associated with the discrete content unit that serves to protect the content from un licensed and un anticipated use. In most cases DRM refers to encryption key passing methods rights associated with both time and location and the marking of content in certain ways in order to either damage its play back quality during un authorized use set usage flags or assist with other forensic purposes. In some cases content providers may decide to add no DRM whatsoever in which case step in the distribution channel of is eliminated.

The billing system can take virtually all forms of payment such as checks credit cards debit cards PAYPAL and equivalents wire transfers contracts containing payment conditions over time and other forms of payment.

After the DRM properties have been added to the content in step the content provider has the responsibility to transmit the content from content source to the access network . In most cases this means the content provider uses a pitcher mechanism to send the content although there are numerous other methods through which content can be sent to an access network. In a typical scenario the pitcher is using a large broadband or large spectrum connection to send the content to its intended location. These pitcher mechanisms may use satellite or fiber optic networks to transmit the content. On the other end a catcher mechanism is used by the access network to receive the content. Catcher mechanism is most likely a reverse mirror image of the pitcher mechanism . For example if the pitcher is a satellite transponder the catcher is a satellite receiver. If the pitcher is an FTP application running over a high speed land line connection the catcher uses an FTP application over its own high speed land line connection.

Ultimately the access network receives the content and allows a customer or subscriber s client device to view the content as is appropriate under the rules and conditions of the DRM if any . In this prior art content distribution system there is no need for the content provider to remunerate the access network for a given transaction and thus there is also no benefit for the access network to promote the content offering s .

The system illustrated in comprises a multi source data center containing a number of multi source servers or control modules and a database module or modules . The data center may be housed in its own secure facility. This facility may house a number of servers and database modules that can manage the various content files efficiently and acts as a bridge between a plurality of content providers or sources and a plurality of access networks serving different groups of subscribers. The multi source data center is connected by a multi source network using high speed lines to the various access networks used by content distribution providers who contract with the multi source service. An access network may be a cable or Internet protocol television IPTV network a satellite network with a 2 wire or DSL backchannel or a mobile network where the client devices are either mobile phone devices and or personal digital assistants PDAs .

The data center ingests or receives content from many different content providers over a network such as the Internet via an external network secure router or first communication device as generally indicated in . Content providers or sources may be any providers of multi media content such as movie studios web providers international distributors television networks amateur content providers or others. Received content is processed by an ingestion module forming part of one of the servers or control modules . The ingestion process is described in more detail below in connection with . Ingested files are indexed with appropriate meta data provided by the content provider and or inserted at the multi source data center for searching purposes and are associated with the content provider preference settings which will be described in more detail below. The files with associated data are then stored in data base module . Other data which is associated with content files is the billing system information for the content provider which provided the respective files.

Many different types of content from different content providers may be uploaded to the multi source data center. The content providers may be network or satellite television companies movie studios Internet or web portals international distributors amateurs or independent providers and others. Content may be delivered from the content provider to the multi source data center over the Internet or a private network in digital form to a secure password protected website associated with the multi source data center . Alternatively content may be mailed as a recording on video tape or DVD to the data center for uploading to the data base system .

The multi source data center is connected using a network of high speed lines to various access networks . This connection is via a client facing router or second communication device at the multi source data center and a client access network router or communication device at each access network. Each access network has its own multi source server which links over network to one of the multi source servers at the multi source data center. A data base module for storage of content files is associated with the access network multi source server . The access network may be a network connected with a consumer which is owned by telephone company Telco cable television provider satellite television provider Internet service provider or the like. Access network is connected to client devices or content viewers of various consumers or subscribers via its own network system . Content is provided to the client devices through a router or content portal of each access network. Although the client devices or content viewers illustrated in are personal computers PCs or laptop computers the client devices may also include other types of viewing devices such as television sets video players mobile devices and the like. The term access network as used herein is synonymous with the following Service Operator Platform ISP or other type of provider of audio video services. The service operator or content distribution provider using the access network to distribute content from the multi source data center to the end user or consumer is not necessarily the owner of the access network which connects to the end user or consumer but in some cases is a third party provider who leases all or part of the access network s capacity in order to operate discrete services such as providing content from multiple sources as described herein.

Any number of access networks from all over the world may link to a multi source data center over the multi source bridge network as indicated in or through other private or public networks such as the Internet. Each multi source server at the access network level may initially cache or store selected content files from the multi source data center which are predicted to be most popular for the geographical area. Content files which are predicated to be less popular may be partially stored at the access network in order to reduce storage requirements with the remainder downloaded from the data center on demand from a consumer or subscriber of the access network. In this case the cached content may be 10 to 20 of the file so as to reduce storage requirements. Certain content files which are predicted to be of little or no relevance in the geographical region served by the access network are not downloaded from the multi source data center but can be obtained if a subscriber should request them from the catalog of available titles.

Content files which are predicted to be popular within a geographical area are all downloaded from the Multi Source Data Center and cached in the local MS Server so that these content files can be played quickly and easily on request. If a user requests a partially stored content file only the beginning ten to twenty percent of the file is available locally. However this content file can start to play immediately upon demand. As the content file starts to play the remaining portions of the content file are downloaded from the multi source data center and cached in time for the content to play out as if the content file was present on the local server the whole time. However using this download while playing technique it may be possible that certain trick mode features do not work as a consumer would expect. For example it may be impossible to fast forward the content file to the end until the content file is fully downloaded into the access network s MS server.

In cases where a content file is requested and the earlier predictions suggested that the content file s not be downloaded at all a message may need to be presented to the consumer requesting patience as a delay of N seconds is required to download at least a start portion of the content files. Similar to Example 2 above the content file only needs to have a small percentage downloaded before it can start to play . Once it starts to play then the remainder of the file can be downloaded.

In this embodiment software code is provided on both the multi source servers within the multi source data center and the multi source servers within the access network or content distribution provider s facilities. This software code is configured to coordinate all activities between the various servers in such a way as to make the distribution process effective and efficient. An embodiment of the coordinating software is described in more detail below in connection with the software flow diagram of .

The MS server within the access network s facility may be connected as a remote directory to video server systems that are deployed to provide video services to their subscribers. In this way the middleware server only needs to pass a path name and file name to the video server systems in order for the content to start playing appropriately for a given consumer. In addition features such as trick play and others may be supported.

The billing system is capable of logging individual transactions and making sure that the appropriate amount of money is paid to the content source . The content owner s preference engine is the system that defines the criteria by which the content can be distributed. The content owner s preference engine contains the rules agreements geographies policies configuration settings preferences and other information that allows the content to be distributed as intended to the appropriate access networks .

As indicated in content files which originated with a particular content owner can flow from the multi source data center to an access network if there is a sufficiently good match between the preference settings of the content owner and access network preference engines and and if billing system criteria are met. The controller of is an optional system which is provided in the multi source servers of and watches the content flowing to the access network through suitable pitcher and catcher systems and through the multi source server router and the client access network routers of . The pitcher and catcher of may be similar systems to those described above in connection with . The controller is the last check point in the distribution chain that verifies the content is being sent correctly and all of the necessary steps have been taken to protect the content along its path. If the controller detects an issue or problem then content is not sent on its path to the access network . Rather the appropriate error messages are sent to operations personnel alerting them of the issues. At that point the operations personnel can either over ride the controller to allow the content to be sent on its path or the content is not sent until all issues have been resolved.

After the controller approves the transaction the content is prepared with Digital Rights Management DRM properties . These DRM properties in one embodiment include encryption of the data a robust mechanism to securely pass encryption keys and other security means such as copy control flags broadcast flags visible watermarks invisible watermarks and any other such protection and rights management systems and technologies that serve to protect the content on its intended path.

There are multiple DRM formats currently in use such as Windows Media DRM Open Mobile Alliance OMA DRM DRM formats used for consumer electronics devices such as portable media players such as Marlin DRM. The multi source data center in one embodiment may be configured to convert a content file into different versions each having a different DRM. This allows content to be distributed to other consumer devices having a DRM scheme that is different from the DRM scheme used by the operators of the multi source content distribution system. Alternatively any DRM conversion may be carried out at the access network level by the content distribution provider.

Once the content has been protected with the appropriate DRM technologies the content is passed to the pitcher which is a mechanism that efficiently and effectively transmits the content to the access network . In some cases the pitcher is a satellite transponder. In other cases the pitcher may be a File Transfer Protocol FTP link. Various other scenarios also exist for the pitcher to transmit the content in such a way as to make it economical and efficient for the access network to receive it.

The counter part to the pitcher is the catcher . The catcher is the mirror image technology to the pitcher . For example if the pitcher is a satellite transponder then the catcher is a satellite receiver. Likewise if the pitcher is an FTP up link facility then the catcher is an FTP down link facility. Pitcher and catcher mechanisms can be selected to be efficient and cost effective and such that the catcher can receive the information being sent by the pitcher .

The verifier is a system similar to controller that checks the incoming content to make sure that it is approved for the access network . Verifier is provided in the multi source server systems at the access networks . If the verifier detects a problem with the incoming data it takes one of a number of appropriate actions. Examples of appropriate actions are as follows 

There are various options for implementing both the controller and the verifier . The verifier may be placed between the pitcher and catcher rather than after the catcher as illustrated in . The function of the controller and verifier systems is to protect their side of the eco system from errors inadvertent or intentional misapplications of the content owner s preferences and or types of system failures. The controller DRM and pitcher of are located at the multi source data center along with the content owner billing system and preference engine . The catcher and verifier are located at the access network.

The content distribution provider which distributes content using access network uses its own access network preference engine to indicate the criteria by which the content can be transmitted to its facility. This preference engine contains the rules agreements geographies policies preferences configuration settings and other information that serves to specify the types of acceptable content.

The content owner s preference engine and the access network s preference engine are coordinated systems. The content owner s preference engine specifies the criteria provided by the content source and stored at the multi source data center in association with content files received from that content source. The access network s preference engine specifies the criteria provided by the content distribution or service provider using access network to distribute content to subscribers or end users. Each preference engine serves to protect its own part of the eco system. Only when the criteria for both the content owner s preference engine and the access network s preference engine are in agreement do content offerings from a particular content owner flow from the multi source data center to the access network .

The content distribution provider using access network also has its own billing system . This is to make sure the content distribution provider has adequate incentives to offer its platform for distributing content from the various content sources associating with the multi source bridge content distribution system. If the content distribution provider which provides content via access network cannot be remunerated for supplying the content then the access network is in danger of being relegated to a supplier of broadband access only. With the multi source distribution system of this embodiment the content source or providers and the content distribution providers using access networks are partners within the content distribution chain. Therefore both parts of the eco system have their own billing systems that verify the correct payments are received as per the criteria established in the preference engines .

Each subscribing client device has access to the access network and all of the content offerings stored at the multi source data base at the access network including the content that originated from various content providers or sources through the distribution chain defined in . The client device may be a set top box a mobile device a PC oriented device or virtually any other consumer oriented device.

Content providers and end user service or content distribution providers access networks doing business via the multi source distribution network system of provide the criteria information for their preference engines to the multi source servers. Once these preference systems are fully deployed and the necessary criteria are input then content potentially begins to arrive from various content sources and may be provided to access networks with matching preference settings on request. The content coming in may be digital so it can be stored as a file although content may be an analog stream in alternative embodiments. As these files appear they are stored in large capacity storage servers or data base systems along with their own meta data if any . Digital data files and or analog data streams can then be downloaded by access networks based on the preferences in their geographic area and stored in large capacity multi source storage servers or data bases at the access network. Once these files and any meta data are received an Electronic Program Guide EPG of offerings to subscribers is updated so the consumer knows the content is available. An example of an EPG with multi source data offerings is illustrated in .

Once the consumer uses the EPG to select content which originated with a particular content source then the billing systems and takes the payment information from the consumer and the content begins to play. The content files may be played to the consumer as video on demand VOD sessions or alternatively as broadcast sessions the difference being the VOD sessions are controlled by the consumer start stop pause etc. . The broadcast sessions are scheduled at a specific start and end times and are provided by the multi source distribution center directly from a content source such as a broadcast television network for downloading by the content distribution provider to the consumer or may alternatively be provided from a peer access network if more efficient.

Once these two preference engines are synchronized and are determined to be in agreement then the content source and the content distribution provider over access network can start to enjoy a commercial relationship.

At the extreme right hand side of both the content owner s preference engine and an access network s preference engine is a field named Titles . This field involves a title level criteria checking function which determines whether certain titles can be transmitted to the access network and is described in more detail below in connection with .

Once it is determined that a particular content source and service or content distribution provider at the access network can do business together due to the fact that there are adequate matches detected between and in it becomes important to understand which titles are approved on both sides of the eco system. Title level criteria checking function is provided for this purpose. For an example assume that it is determined that a large US based cable operator and a large US broadcast network can do business together based on criteria matches . The US broadcast network has approved the transfer of content that is 30 days after the original broadcast however nothing newer can be sent. Another example is a regional Telco determines it can do business with a nation wide content aggregator however the regional Telco does not want any adult content. In both cases the title level criteria checking function is used to determine which titles are appropriate and which are not. The fields defined in help to demonstrate how each title from the multi source data base can carry its own set of criteria for each title that can be matched with the requirements of the end user provider at access network for the titles it desires to make available to its subscribers.

It is possible that multiple separate set top boxes and or personal computers could be connected in such a way as to mirror this same capability by downloading content separately from different sources. However these various components are often complicated and expensive. Also it is hard to provide seamless time shifting and location shifting capability without adding more devices and technologies empowered to control all of the various devices. The present system allows a content source or provider and a distribution or end user service provider using access network to work together in order to provide content to the consumer over a multi source bridge network which requires a reduced number of devices and which may reduce costs. Using this approach can enable a unified commercial relationship with a consumer operating a single integrated user interface.

The end user service provider or content distribution provider utilizing access network to distribute multi source content could offer a fixed number of viewing hours for the extended television offerings per month or a flat rate for unlimited viewing or al la carte viewing selection of titles or other packaged offerings. After those hours are consumed there would be an extra charge for the additional viewing hours. These revenues would then be split between the access network and the content source or sources. These extended broadcast channels may be integrated into the existing EPG providing a simple and fully integrated method for time shifting by way of personal video recording and location shifting by way of a home gateway or similar localization technologies .

The extended and integrated content offering also provides search capability. The search capability can be provided to the consumer by way of a middleware system as illustrated in or through the extended EPG of . illustrates an example of a suitable search input form or simple user interface for a content search engine which may be located at the multi source data center or MS server at an access network level. The consumer enters search criteria on the user interface. By filling in all or part of this form the consumer is able to search for content offerings around the world. Such a search is performed by examining the various meta data elements that have been previously filed and categorized at the multi source data center and stored with the content files in data bases at both the multi source data center and at the access network The meta data is created by known software programs that examine video information and create meta data on the software s best interpretation of what is going on . After completing the search the search engine comes back with a list of content files which contain content according to the consumer s entry on the search form of . Once the consumer finally selects the desired content as detected by the search engine the transaction is consummated the consumer is charged and the billing systems appropriately split the revenues between the content source and the access network. .

The middleware system of also provides extended broadcast television viewing . This option can show extended content provided by external content sources in a scheduled linear broadcast format similar to broadcasts from the large US broadcast networks. 

Another feature offered by this middleware system is extended VOD . These are video offerings that are selected and played like a standard VOD offering. In one embodiment the extended VOD offerings would be charged on a per viewing basis. Once the payment is collected from the consumer the revenue is split appropriately as agreed by the content source and the end user service provider at the access network level. An extended search button on the middleware operator interface screen allows a consumer to search for extended content titles for either a broadcast session or a VOD session. The search engine can be enhanced by the inclusion of a recommendation algorithm which highlights the content according to the user s past viewing habits or expressed interests. A return to TV button allows the consumer to return to regular broadcast television.

The search capabilities or search engines described above may allow for search processes that start at specified times during an hour day week month or even within a year. These processes proactively searches for titles and criteria and return a list of content titles that match the specified search criteria. Another name for these processes is auto bots . There can be numerous auto bots on such a network that search the content library or libraries for selected criteria. Once again the result is a list of content titles that can be further investigated by anyone using such a network. Given this system s design it is possible to launch a number of auto bot programs that search the content library or libraries while simultaneously filtering out unwanted content as specified herein .

In the foregoing embodiment an end user service or content distribution provider uses an access network to offer content from worldwide sources to end users or consumer using the infrastructure identified above. However the content distribution provider may use other pipelines for providing content to end users. In an alternative embodiment in addition to the option of providing content using the infrastructure of the consumer may make an extended content selection and choose to have the content transmitted to the consumer by way of a different network. For example the consumer may select a video about penguins from the extended content source and have this video transmitted to the consumer in one of the following ways 

One example of the use of a governmental preference engine as illustrated in is to prevent distribution of material contrary to the law of a country or region. For example in Japan adult content can be distributed to the adult population however human genitalia cannot be made clearly visible. Instead large blocks of underlying pixels are created and arranged in such a way as to blur the image. The intent is to provide the viewer with a very good idea regarding what is going on without showing everything clearly. Such a blurred portion of the image is often called a mosaic. Therefore it is common for people to discuss the mosaic effect used in adult content within the country of Japan. With the use of a government preference engine in the multi source distribution system of the service operators or content distribution providers in Japan can be assured that adult content 

Since standards of acceptability vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction use of a government preference engine can be advantageous in ensuring content is acceptable in all jurisdictions where it can potentially be distributed.

The government preference engine can also be greatly expanded to filter or censor content that is believed to be harmful to the population at large. The country of China is a good example however not the only example. Chinese or other governments may set their own preference engines in such a way that only approved content would flow through to potential subscribers on the network who are within their jurisdiction.

In one embodiment the content owner uploads their content. As they are uploading their data they have a chance to upload meta data if it exists as well. In addition trailers art work and other data that supports the content can be uploaded as well. After such content is uploaded a software program is initiated that examines the content to try to determine whether there is a match between the supplied meta data and the actual images. If no meta data was supplied by the content owner such a software program would try to build its own meta data file. As a last step human operators paid by the multi source distribution network may view the video and verify the meta data is correct. Once these steps have been taken the access network operators can be reasonably well assured the meta data is correct and the various search mechanisms can operate according to their specifications and criteria settings.

Although the major Hollywood studios have a standardized method for rating television and feature film product the rest of the content community does not. Therefore what may be considered an adult film by one content provider may be considered Parental Guidance PG film by another. A content certification function or service may be provided within the multi source content integration network described above in one embodiment. This allows the content sources either from the major film studios or outside of the major film studios to have experienced personnel evaluate the content and provide a rating according to standardized practices within the industry. Such a service would take the titles before they were available on the multi source distribution network. Experienced personnel would view the content and render the rating as is appropriate for the consumers who may wish to view this content. In one embodiment the content owner may be charged for such a service as this may tend to increase the attractiveness of the title.

In an embodiment where sophisticated software or experienced personnel within the multi source system evaluate content a multi source rating system may be provided to appropriately categorize the various content materials found to be in the system. Rating systems can include a myriad of metrics including but not limited to violence adult content language appropriate for certain ages appropriate for certain countries appropriate for certain religions and the like. These categories can be fields within the databases that hold the content assets. The ratings can be used along with the preference engines described above.

In addition to the preference engines and rating systems described above the multi source distribution system may include extra protection mechanisms that can be used to further protect individuals such as children from experiencing inappropriate or un wanted content materials. Examples of such extra protection mechanisms are 

Content owners or content sources upload content to the multi source system in data center of in step and set up their own preference settings with the multi source network for content owner s preference engines in step using servers at the multi source data center. In step content distribution providers access networks begin requesting downloads of attractive titles and other titles matching their specific preference criteria from the multi source data center . Consumers or subscribers to the various content distribution providers are invited to establish their specific preference settings at step when they sign on for the multi source service. At step multi source content selections are made available to consumers via the extended program guide or via the search capability described above. Consumers can then select titles for viewing step . At step the multi source system at the access network determines whether the selected title is available on the access network s multi source server. If available locally the title is played step the play is reported to the multi source data center via proxy step and the billing systems for the content owner or provider and for the content distribution provider at the access network level are updated with the distributed charges for the viewing of that particular title steps . The process is then ended .

If a requested title is not available on the access network s multi source server step an index maintained at the multi source data center indicates a source for the title either from the titles stored at the multi source data center or from titles stored by a peer access network step . The access network then establishes a connection to the most efficient source for the title step and receives enough data for the title to start to play . While the initial data of the title is starting to play the remainder of the title is downloaded step . The remainder of the title then plays step . The playing of the title is reported to the data center via proxy and the billing systems for both the content owner or provider and the content distribution provider access network are updated steps and . The process is then ended .

As illustrated in central processing unit or controller is linked to the data base module the first or content provider communication module and the distribution provider module so as to control ingestion of files from content providers and supply of content files to content distribution providers. The central processing unit is also linked to a preference control module which is adapted to compare the preference settings of the four entities and as described above in connection with so as to determine whether or not a requested content file can be supplied to a subscriber. A file ingestion module linked to the content provider communication module processes incoming files as described below in connection with before providing the processed files to the data base module . A billing coordination module is configured to link the content owner billing systems and the distribution provider billing systems so as to coordinate and share billing between the two entities for each completed transaction.

Search engine module linked to the central processing unit is configured to search for requested subject matter in the meta data of files stored in the multi source data base module based on search requests received from subscribers through their associated content distribution providers as described in more detail above in connection with . A subscriber proxy profile module is configured to collect subscriber profile information based on the types of content files requested and to associate subscriber profiles with a proxy as described in more detail below in connection with .

Each content file may have information added by the system user by way of direct input or file uploads such as one or more of the following meta data trailers posters and promotional material commercials preference settings as described above which may include licensed regions in addition to any of the other preference settings discussed above and illustrated in the drawings and other information . Meta data may be added by the content owner or provider but more sophisticated reviewers may also be used in order to verify that content files are properly classified and described and may also add other meta data in some cases. For an example a content owner may wish to fool the multi source distribution system by posting content named Barney goes to Kindergarten which actually contents adult material. All supporting information and logic tells the system that this piece of content is intended for young children. Humans or very sophisticated software programs may review the content in order to verify that the meta data is correct and in this case will correct the meta data to reflect the adult content.

Once the contents have been loaded into the multi source system then the following processes takes place. The content files are transcoded into a compressed format step . An example of such a current day compressed video format is H.264 or MPEG 4 part 10 . The compressed file format enables a large number of video files to be stored at the multi source data center.

In one embodiment subtitles and additional localization are used in order to create localized files for each geographical region where the content may be offered. Such localization may be performed with automated means in some cases such as a software program that performs a speech to text operation and then creates its own subtitled meta data . If an automated process cannot be used for one reason or another then a human may need to perform the localization processes manually.

After the localization processes are complete then discrete files are created for each geographical region. For example content files may be created as follows 

In an alternative embodiment multiple layers of files may be created during the encoding process. illustrates an example of multiple layering in the encoding process. For a given piece of content multiple discrete files can be created. If the content is intended to be sent to a Quarter Common Intermediate Format QCIF or small screen such as a small television screen then only the file containing sufficient information for a small screen is sent to the client. If it is determined that the end user viewing device is a full sized TV screen then the small screen file data in addition to the extra elements needed for full screen resolution i.e. file data is sent to the client. Finally if it is determined that the end user viewing device is a high definition display then the small screen data plus the full screen data and the high definition data is sent to the client device in such a way as the content is appropriately rendered and displayed according to the maximum resolution and play back capabilities of the play back device.

In one embodiment of the localization process the source content may be subtitled for different regions. However dubbing techniques may alternatively be used. No matter if the localization process adds subtitles or audio dubs the result is the same. Discrete files are created for each version of the content so the multi source network can stream or download the appropriate content with a minimum of processing power required on the service side. illustrates an example in which discrete files are created at step of with subtitles or dubbing into various local languages. For example a Japanese version 280J is created for Japan a Korean version 280K is created for Korea two versions Mandarin 280M and Cantonese 280C are created for China and three versions are created for Belgium specifically a Dutch version 280H a Flemish version 280FL and a French version 280FR. It can be seen that each localized version is contained in its own discrete file. After each localized file is created more individual files are created from each localized file and these additional files are then transcoded to meet certain screen and other device specific criteria.

Other sets of discrete files for each source content file can be created for other purposes as well. The main reason to create individual discrete files for each received content file is either for localization purposes or device specific purposes or both although there may be other reasons for creating other types of individual discrete files.

Batch processes may be used to a large degree in order to create individual discrete files. Databases may be constructed that provide work flow information for source content being ingested. These databases may determine the various processes which take place and the appropriate batch programs may executed so all of the necessary files are created to satisfy the needs of the potential consumers.

Standard contracts may be provided for the content owners to fill out and sign before uploading content in order for them to have the protections they need. In addition a contract may be provided for the service distribution providers to sign in order to protect their interest as well. In one embodiment the multi source distribution system includes one or more standard contract templates that can be filled out and signed either electronically by way of the E Sign Act signed by President Bill Clinton or signed manually. Such a contract or contracts may be designed to define the system s operation the expectations and the apportionment of all funds that are relevant to both the operators of the multi source content distribution system and the content owner.

Content owners may wish to buy and sell other content properties that might be available at a given time. The multi source content distribution system may include a mechanism and system for offers acceptances payments and verifications for buying and selling multi media content to take place over the multi source system. Such a system may be accessed by means of a button on a screen visible to a user of the multi source process such as a content owner or content distribution provider. For example in one embodiment when a content owner finishes up loading their last bit of content in addition to all of the component meta data and ancillary materials a button is displayed which may read as follows 

The content owner clicks on this button and is presented with a list of content files that are legally available over the multi source system for sale . This content owner now becomes a potential buyer . At this point the potential buyer identifies a particular content file that is of high interest and plays it to verify it is correctly categorized and is otherwise as advertised . The potential buyer now places a buy offer through the multi source system. Within a certain length of time the offer is accepted and the ownership of the content changes once the appropriate amount of money has transferred from the buyer to the seller .

In addition futures contracts and other trading facilities similar to commodities trading facilities can be made available over the multi source bridge distribution system as well. Some of the various transactions that can be made available are as follows 

Given the system as described in this application it is possible to keep track of the content that is being ordered by the consumer so specific advertising methods can be used to encourage the purchase of goods and or services. For example if a consumer tends to watch NASCAR racing broadcasts and VOD sessions the local car dealerships may want to invite such a consumer to a special event. This pin point advertising capability can become quite important to not only to the local community of business owners but to national retailers as well.

In one embodiment advertising may be incorporated in the multi source content distribution system and method without disseminating a consumer s personal information. A serious problem that arises when trying to build a system that is capable of inserting relevant advertisements is the set of issues surrounding privacy and confidentiality. If consumer level data is leaving the network and being made available to advertisers and others consumers may protest at their loss of confidentiality or governments local state and federal may step in to reduce such practices.

At the same time advertisers and others within the supply chain are not particularly interested in the identity of the consumer as much as they are interested to know their profile and a general geographic area that they live. Any information more granular than this is simply not necessary as the service operator could in fact notify the advertiser if there was a compelling reason to do so and the consumer and the government entities were in approval of such a move .

Therefore as long as profile information can be exchanged and other generalized data points can also be shared then no other data is needed and the consumer s privacy and confidentiality can be protected to a large degree. Since such requirements profile general data are all that are required the multi source system may use an exchange or proxy mechanism as illustrated in to facilitate the passing of data to potential advertisers and network operators so relevant advertisements can be identified and inserted into content that is specifically targeted to certain consumers.

A custom advertisement designed for that particular consumer is downloaded from the content owner e.g. a motion picture studio and inserted in the content file requested by the consumer. The content is then delivered to the consumer. This allows specific or relevant advertising to be provided to a consumer. Some of the ways that advertising can be inserted along with the content are as follows 

The issue is allowing the opportunity to insert relevant advertisements. As we all know from our years watching broadcast television most advertisements are designed to promote brand awareness. They are not so much designed to encourage a consumer to make a buying decision on the spot. For these reasons and technology limitation reasons non relevant shot gun style advertisements have been used for many years with a high degree of success in creating brand awareness.

In the foregoing example a relevant advertisement is a specific advertisement previously produced and edited which is inserted into multi media content requested by a consumer because the consumer has demonstrated a history of having a specific profile that tends to desire the product being promoted. In other words based on the things the consumer watches and does while he or she is enjoying interactive television it becomes evident that the consumer falls into a certain category of buyer. Typical categories may include white collar enjoys fast cars homemaker interested in children s content and health related content ethnic enjoys content from the Middle East or other geographic area and many more. Given information such as this list above and much more profiles can be developed that help to identify the consumer being targeted for a relevant advertisement.

This directed advertising method takes advantage of the fact that many consumers enjoy watching advertisements that are relevant and even enjoy purchasing items that were encouraged by relevant advertising. With this knowledge it is easy to conclude that the following entities can benefit from relevant advertising models Content owners Network operators Consumers Advertisers and Others in the distribution supply chain for goods and services.

In one embodiment neural networks can be used within the multi source content distribution system or network in order to gain new and improved perspectives on consumer habits while they are engaged in multi source activities. Such artificially intelligent systems can store a great deal of relevant information and provide the following 

The system as described in connection with identifies candidates for goods and services by way of a profile and attaches appropriate advertisements to the content. In the same way high value coupons can be provided to the consumer in order to further encourage him or her to explore the product and service offerings from the advertisers. Ways to print coupons for such a service include but are not limited to 

If the consumer decides to make a purchase motivated by the pin point advertising then a bar code on the coupon can be scanned by the retailer and a database is updated further providing valuable information to the entities interested in the success rates of such pin point advertising.

In the above system coupons and other promotion oriented incentives may be provided directly to the consumers. As advertisements are being inserted into the stream or download in the manner illustrated in selected materials can be combined with the advertisements in such a way as to further convince the consumer to take assertive positive actions. Examples are as follows 

By giving consumers the opportunity to make purchases based on valuable coupons or promotional campaigns coupled with the electronic delivery of advertisements the buying loop can be closed and the advertiser can gain access to empirical data that can prove a certain advertisement yielded certain identifiable sales to certain identifiable consumers .

This method can help advertisers to determine where best to place their advertising dollars. Although it is not possible for this method to determine if a consumer is paying attention to the advertisement it is possible to monitor certain metrics that could suggest the successful viewing of a discrete advertisement. Metrics could be but are not limited to 

This content integration system as described in this application may be associated with home gateway technologies which connect various consumer devices to access networks. Such home gateway technologies can also be used to move content from the main home to a vacation home to move content to approved consumer electronic devices within a consumer s home network such as PCs and hand held devices and to move content to wireless devices.

In an alternative embodiment the multi source content distribution system described above may include a gateway or domain onto the open internet that effectively treats web pages in a similar fashion as the video content described above. In many places around the world people do not have personal computers PCs . In some cases people simply do not have the money to purchase a PC. In other cases people have leap frogged PCs as they learn to be dependent on and are completely satisfied with smaller mobile devices. In such cases a set top box STB within such a household may be used to surf the web within the context of a multi source distribution or integration network. This assumes that no matter whether people have PCs or not or they have mobile devices or not they often have a TV set and most likely have a set top box. This set top box then can be used as a client to enjoy web pages within a domain that follows rules and policies specifically established for the population of set top boxes around the world. This system is equivalent to the embodiments illustrated above and as generally illustrated in with the content providers comprising web sites or Internet providers who provide content to client devices or content viewers such as set top boxes through the multi source data center or distribution network illustrated in .

Some of the benefits of this approach are as follows. The preference engines allow governments web providers hosts access networks and consumers to manage their own preference engines that appropriately filter un wanted content. Conversely the proactive searching that takes place within the multi source system can also identify potentially interesting web sites for the consumer. Web providers hosts and access networks can enjoy a revenue share by way of an appropriately designed network. The access network may want to promote the web site as such a web site becomes a business partner with the access network. Web sites may then be able to offer a much higher quality of service proposition as the access network can verify the content is handled appropriately and at the correct bit rates. Web sites have the ability to leverage the single integrated experience as the consumer only needs one remote control in order to enjoy TV and navigate the web site. The consumer does not need to jockey between the PC and the TV in order to participate in both experiences. In addition the consumer does not need to connect devices together in order to enjoy a fully integrated experience.

In this embodiment a top level domain such as .stb may first be established. This would be similar to .com .net .tv and others . By managing such a domain an effort can be made to verify that all product developers adhere to an established set of rules and polices specifically defined for the domain. For example it may be determined that all pages within the multi source established domain are Java based and a number of meta tags or other tags exist that properly explain the contents that can be found within the web page. The meta tags or other tags can be used to search or otherwise filter out the material contained on the web site. In one embodiment all web pages used within such a system end with the domain suffix such as .stb in order for them to work properly within a set top box.

On the client side a library of code is programmed to properly operate and navigate through a fully operational multi source implementation. The library of code source code or executable code is programmed to operate within the multi source distribution system or network by way of multi source defined application programming interfaces APIs . The domain web pages and the client side code libraries can be designed to work together in order to present material from a public network such as the internet directly to a television viewer watching a standard television unit and operating a standard remote control.

Similar to the packet based service for mobile phones known as I Mode offered by NTT DoCoMo in Japan developers wishing to establish web pages within a multi source domain ca be provided with development specifications APIs and guidelines so that they can create web pages and associated content that can be offered to consumers over their TV set via the multi source distribution network.

An alternative embodiment to establishing a new top level domain is to create and maintain a registry of domain names at the multi source distribution center that are designed to operate within the multi source frame work. Though not as elegant as simply having a consistent extension such as .stb this alternative embodiment serves the same purpose. Developers can create customized web pages that work seamlessly for television access networks. Such a registry can be organized and governed by the sharing of specifications standards APIs and common protocols. As long as these rules are followed appropriately the middleware systems for television based access networks can be configured to render the information in such a way as to appear seamless to consumers.

Either of the above approaches either creating a new top level domain such as .stb or creating a managed registry of URLs produces an environment where developers around the world can enjoy the potential to capture the attention of millions if not billions of television viewers. Numerous walled garden applications may be created using this technique.

A multi source content distribution system as defined in this application may be designed to offer certain buttons on a remote control that work to reduce or eliminate a series of button presses. For example a press of a button or a click of a mouse style device can immediately purchase a specific item that is being advertised. A press of yet another button can record the playing of a content selection on a long term storage device. Still another press of a button can bring up lists of available content. There are numerous such valuable one click operations that can be implemented within the multi source content distribution framework.

Although the multi source bridge content distribution system and method as described above is concerned with content unit cast streams and or downloads this system may also be used in conjunction with broadcast channels where the content provider is a broadcast network for example. The multi source system in this case can concatenate content sections and advertisements together and then broadcast and or multi cast these channels to all client devices that are equipped to capture these streams.

The multi source system can be adapted to offer a content download model rather than a streaming model. Such a download model would require a storage mechanism server side or client side that would cache the content for the purposes of allowing the consumer to time shift at his or her pleasure. This model allows consumers to make physical copies on media such as VCDs DVD tape flash memory or other storage media.

The multi source content distribution system may provide content owners or providers with the option of listing their titles at the top or near the top of relevant pages on payment of a fee. This option may be known as pay to place . An example of pay to place is as follows A consumer indicates that he or she wants to see the list of content selections where the key words entered are billiards and US champions. As a function of the multi source system the content owner and advertiser Brunswick is allowed to list its own content select at the top of any list relevant to billiards for a pre agreed fee. In this particular example Brunswick has agreed to pay 1.00 to place its content selection at the top of the list for this query.

In one embodiment the multi source bridge content distribution network may also have the ability for consumers to register their electronics devices and associate these electronics devices with both the consumer s STB or PC and the consumer s account number. By navigating through the middleware system on their STB or by accessing a designated web site using a PC a consumer can create a unique ID for each electronics device. An example of such a unique ID for a consumer s electronics device may be as follows 

If the consumer wishes to play content on an unregistered device or an unregistered STB or PC they simply update their account accordingly so the content plays without any problems. In this embodiment if a device is unregistered the multi source network assumes either the device the STB or PC or the consumer is not authorized to play the content. Other techniques may be used by the Multi Source and the network to register devices in order for content to play appropriately.

A Device Capabilities Profile may be provided to subscribers of the multi source network. Such a Device Capabilities Profile contains a list of devices and their capabilities. In one embodiment content is provided to a given device when the device and its capabilities are supported both within the content owner s preference engine and also within the access network s preference engine. The system may revoke content to a particular device or class of devices as needed or limit the type of content available depending on the device s security scheme. An example of a device capabilities profile is as follows 

MP4 player from Atheros which supports Windows Media DRM H.264 and native MPEG4. The screen format is 320 240 QVGA soundtrack is stereo largest video file is less than 25 GB connection is by USB or wireless SD cards are supported etc. This device may be assigned a device registry number of XXX 001.

The multi source content distribution network in one embodiment is designed to allow the continuation of content from one device to another finish watching content on the train on mobile device or finish watching on PC in the back bedroom. By leveraging the Device Registry described above and the Device Capabilities Profile also described above the multi source system can determine when the consumer is switching from one consumer device to another and verify that the content parameters are correct for each new device coming on line.

One example of content switching from one device to another is as follows. A consumer begins his or her day at home watching an instructional video about learning Spanish as a second language using the multi source content distribution network. At this point the multi source content distribution network knows the consumer is directing the stream to a standard definition TV set and the content file streaming into the home is transcoded in such a way as to appear properly encoded for this TV set. After 30 minutes or so this consumer instructs the multi source system to pause the stream and wait until new instructions are sent to the multi source system. These instructions are received and acted on by the multi source server at the access network level. The consumer then gets into a car and uses a mobile device to contact the multi source system and send a request to resume Play. Once the multi source system has validated the consumer device currently in use it learns the encoding parameters are much different as the client device is now much smaller than a TV set and its encoding parameters are appropriately altered as to appear seamless to the consumer. At this point the multi source system can perform one of two different operations as follows 

Once the multi source content distribution network has made a decision how best to resolve the encoding differences real time transcoding vs. selecting pre encoded file the content continues to be streamed to the consumer from the point where the consumer directed the content to Pause. This point usually considered to be a bookmark . This allows consumers to trade devices while viewing content switching the content play from one device to the next as desired.

Similar to the above description of an option to play content files from one client device in one location to another client device in another location it is also possible for the multi source system to be designed to allow the same seamless operation from one access network to another. An example of such an operation is as follows 

The above described transitions between access networks and consumer devices are possible because the multi source content distribution system is an independent network that is linked into the various access networks or operated over the web . Since the multi source content distribution system is an independent network transitions over time distance and devices may be resolved relatively seamlessly.

In most content distribution platforms the consumers are never clear about the Digital Rights Management DRM schemes that are in place or the rules and policies that govern the network. Therefore it is common for consumers to ask questions such as Can I transfer to content to my PC Another question might be Can I record the content as it arrives on my play back device so I can watch it later Questions like these and others are common and the correct answer to these questions is often difficult to find. The multi source content distribution system may be designed to act as an agent to describe the various rights rules and policies of an access network and any particular content selection. In this case a consumer can press a designated button on a remote control device or other similar device in order to receive a clear explanation of all Rights policies and rules that have been established for the play back of the particular content selection in question.

Another option for a multi source content distribution system or network is to operate a service similar to the Nielsen Ratings Service that places devices into consumer s homes for the purpose of capturing television viewing habits. The multi source network may capture and store empirical data for the purpose of reporting actual viewing habits for the content that is distributed by the multi source network. Such Nielsen style ratings services can also be expanded if the multi source network becomes the network selected to deliver premium content in addition to the more obscure content selections.

The multi source content distribution system or network can also be used to provide platforms for interactive gaming and the administration and delivery of valuable rewards. Interactive games may be stored at the multi source distribution center or at the multi source content distribution provider on the access network level. On request for a particular game the multi source distribution system may deliver segments of the game in a way that is similar to the delivery of content using trick play features. In doing so consumers can enjoy audio and video sequences that they need to see in order to make important decisions regarding how best to navigate through the game.

There are several other possible options that could be provided in conjunction with the multi source content distribution system or network as described above. For example consumer rewards may be built into the system. When it is determine that a reward of some type is to be delivered to a specific consumer the Multi Source network can identify the correct consumer and deliver the reward in a number of ways for example 

The multi source content distribution network may also be adapted to allow mixing of video streaming and blogging for example to create viewers forums around live events or to create real time polling talk back chat rooms centered around a live news commentary or sports event. Virtual betting and side games may be provided around a live sports event with contests and prizes. Other options which may be provided include 

The multi source bridge content distribution system as described above is fundamentally the collaboration of content owners providers in partnership with access network operators or content distribution providers leasing space on access networks so as to provide consumers with many more viewing choices in a readily accessible manner.

The multi source bridge content distribution system described in the above embodiments links various external content sources to local access networks. This provides the content sources with numerous new channels of distribution and potential revenue. The access networks or content distribution providers using the local access network to distribute content do not need to compete directly with the large web portals during a time when the competition may be extreme. The consumer can enjoy an integrated system that can also provide time shifting and location shifting technologies and solutions in certain embodiments.

Such a design allows content to be managed effectively when it does not flow naturally from one geographical region to another for numerous reasons including but not limited to 

Those of skill will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module or block without departing from the invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC.

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing other than the appended claims.

