---

title: Systems and methods for communicating music indicia
abstract: Systems and methods for providing a menu permanently stored on a mobile device. The menu provides a ranked music indicia option to review a ranked list of music indicia over a cellular network. The menu further provides a news and reviews option to review news and reviews relating to a music artist or a band over a cellular network. The menu further provides an artist option to obtain information about a music artist or a band over a cellular network. An application provisioning server comprising instructions for (i) receiving a selection over a cellular network and (ii) providing over a cellular network, as a function of said selection, any of (a) a ranked list of music indicia, (b) news and reviews relating to a music artist or band or (c) information about a music artist or a band.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08463245&OS=08463245&RS=08463245
owner: Shoreline Innovations, LLC
number: 08463245
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060330
---
The present invention relates to wireless communication systems and methods. More particularly the systems and methods of the present invention provide ranked music indicia and ringtones to mobile device users.

The development of the Internet has made it possible for users to access large amounts of information by using browsers on computer systems. Collective information on a specific topic for example music entertainment sports and finance has been available through Internet portal sites such as Yahoo music and dedicated websites such as Billboard.

Websites such as Yahoo music provide comprehensive information on entertainment news and shows. These sites allow users to search and download music graphic and video files e.g. in . A typical web page at Yahoo music provides users with the option of listening to music on an Internet radio station e.g. in and by the Y music unlimited web based program e.g. in previewing music video through a music video preview program e.g. in Such web sites also provide access to news and information about artists and bands e.g. in . The Yahoo music site also provides each user with a personalized default home page that can be customized by the user so that the page displays specific information about favorite artists or genres of artists as well as other preferred content.

Users may also access specific music information through websites that specialize in music and entertainment. illustrates a website at Billboard.com hosted by the Billboard Information Group New York . The site offers news features columns and reviews through News Review toggle . Billboard periodically provides charts of United States entertainment sales music airplay music downloads and box office grosses through Chart toggle . Access to artist related information is provided by Artists toggle online music shopping is provided by Shop toggle music business development related information is provided by Biz Tools toggle entertainment related information is provided by Entertainment toggle and Interact toggle provides an interactive interface where users may ask their own music related questions or participate in online polls.

Websites such as the one depicted in advantageously provide users with comprehensive entertainment services. However such websites have the drawback that they are only available on networked computers. Thus the information provided by such websites is not available to users who desire such information but do not have ready access to a networked computer. Systems and methods are needed in the art to provide information or tools that make information more readily available to users who do not have access to a networked computer.

In the art attempts have been made to provide such information using devices that communicate using cellular networks. Devices that communicate using cellular networks include cell phones and personal digital assistants PDAs . Users of mobile devices can access the Internet through specialized web browsers that communicate over a cellular network. However there are substantial differences between networked computers e.g. desktop and lap top computers and mobile devices such as cell phones because each has quite different requirements to serve different needs. The mobile device screen must be able to tolerate scratching being dropped moisture cold weather and other problems while at the same time consuming very little power. The networked computer screen doesn t have these limitations so it can be bigger and show better graphics. Other important differences are the input mechanisms. The networked computer typically has a keyboard with over 80 keys as well as a mouse and the user can easily use both hands to enter data or control the system. With mobile devices in general input mechanisms are more limited. Typically the number of keys in the input mechanism is limited e.g. 0 to 9 arrow keys and some additional control keys . Typing text for memos with these few keys is laborious. Mobile device screen sizes and input keys are best when used for simple actions such as browsing menus or small pages. There is also a significant difference in download times between networked computers and mobile devices. A picture which looks good and downloads fast on a networked computer doesn t fit the screen and takes a long time to download on a mobile device such as a cell phone. Consequently efforts to provide music information using mobile devices have been to date unsatisfactory.

The 3 Gupload website of provides a solution that attempts to overcome the limited bandwidth of mobile devices. The web site allows users to download selected files including cell phone games and ringtones onto their mobile devices. First a user signs up for an account over the Internet at the www.3Gupload.com website using a networked computer. The user then browses collections of games screen savers ringtones e.g. in and applications provided by the 3 Gupload website. Selected files and applications are put into a virtual locker on a remote server using My Locker toggle . The user then launches a web browser on a mobile device logs into the virtual locker and downloads the selected files and applications onto the mobile device. Although the methods used by 3 Gupload.com allows a user to effectively collect files into the same destination e.g. a web locker for subsequent download onto a mobile device the approach still requires a networked computer each time a download is made. For users who do not have access to networked computers the 3 Gupload method is impractical.

Given the above background it is apparent that what are needed in the art are improved systems and methods for providing entertainment related services to end users who have mobile devices.

Discussion or citation of a reference herein will not be construed as an admission that such reference is prior art to the present invention.

The present invention provides systems and methods for providing entertainment related services on mobile devices. In one embodiment a menu in a program permanently stored on a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant is executed. Then a first module from the menu is selected thereby providing access to a catalog of music items. The user makes a selection of a music item from the catalog. The music item is then retrieved from a remote server. In some embodiments the menu comprises a plurality of modules where at least one module in the plurality of modules provides a link to ranked music indicia.

One aspect of the present invention provides a computer program product for use in conjunction with a mobile device. The computer program product comprises a computer readable storage medium and a computer program mechanism embedded therein. The computer program mechanism comprises instructions for executing a menu having several options. One option is a ranked music indicia option to review a ranked list of music indicia over a cellular network. Another option is a news and reviews option to review news and reviews relating to a music artist or a band over a cellular network. Yet another option is an artist option to obtain information about a music artist or a band over a cellular network. The menu is permanently stored in the mobile device. In some embodiments the ranked music indicia option the news and reviews option and the artist option each directly link or indirectly link to a music store over a cellular network where a music item can be purchased.

In some embodiments the computer program mechanism further comprises instructions for obtaining a message over a cellular network when the music item is purchased. The message can be for example a short message service SMS communication an enhanced messaging system EMS communication a multi media messaging service MMS communication an instant message or an e mail. In some embodiments the message conveys a charge for the music item when the music item is permanently stored in the mobile device. In some embodiments computer program mechanism further comprises instructions for i permanently storing a music item received over a cellular network in the mobile device or ii sampling a music item received over a cellular network without permanent storage in the mobile device.

In some embodiments the mobile device is a cell phone or personal digital assistant. In some embodiments the cellular network used by the ranked music indicia option the news and reviews option or the artist option implements a 2 G or 3 G protocol. In some embodiments the ranked list of music indicia comprises a ranked list of songs a ranked list of albums or a ranked list of ringtones. In some embodiments the news and reviews option comprises instructions for providing music related news and reviews as a function of user directed input that includes a designated venue an artist a band an orchestra a genre a zip code a band or an album identity. In some embodiments the news and reviews concerns a venue an artist a band an orchestra a genre a zip code or an album. In some embodiments the information about an artist or a band comprises the discography of the artist or band news and or a review of the artist or band. In some embodiments the information about an artist or a band comprises a biography of the artist or the band. In some embodiments the information about an artist or a band comprises a ranked ringtone list of the artist or the band. In some embodiments the artist option comprises instructions for providing information about an artist or a band as a function of user directed input that includes an artist a band an orchestra or a genre.

In some aspects of the invention the menu further comprises a music related events option to obtain information about a plurality of music related events in a geographical area. The music related event can be for example a concert performed by an artist or a band. In some embodiments the music related event in the plurality of music related events takes place in a designated venue such as a city town village county building or state. In some embodiments the music related events option comprises instructions for identifying the music related event as a function of user directed input that includes a designated venue an artist or a zip code.

In some aspects of the invention the menu further comprises a games option that provides access to a game over a cellular network. The game can be for example a music related trivia game. In some aspects of the invention the menu further comprises a personalization option that facilitates creation of a user profile that individualizes a plurality of user specified preferences. In some embodiments a user specified preference in the plurality of user specified preferences is a setting for message delivery and or a default ringtone specification.

In some embodiments the computer program mechanism further comprises instructions for executing a verification process prior to executing the menu. This verification process can comprise for example communicating a license code or password over a cellular network prior to executing the menu. In some embodiments the ranked list of music indicia comprises Ringtone Top 20 R B HipHop Top 20 Rock Top 20 Pop Top 20 Latin Top 20 Country Top 20 or Rap Top 20. In some embodiments the ranked music indicia comprises ringtones ranked by a number of downloads in a predetermined time period. In some embodiments the predetermined time period is a minute an hour a day a week a month or a year.

Still another aspect of the present invention provides an application provisioning server comprising a central processing unit and a memory coupled to the central processing unit. The memory comprises instructions for i receiving a selection over a cellular network and ii providing over a cellular network as a function of the selection any of a a ranked list of music indicia b news and reviews relating to a music artist or band or c information about a music artist or a band. In some embodiments the ranked list of music indicia comprises a ranked list of songs albums or ringtones. In some embodiments the ranked list of music indicia comprises Ringtone Top 20 R B HipHop Top 20 Rock Top 20 Pop Top 20 Latin Top 20 Country Top 20 or Rap Top 20. In some embodiments the ranked music indicia comprises ringtones ranked by a number of downloads in a predetermined time period e.g. a minute an hour a day a week a month or a year .

Yet another aspect of the present invention provides a computer program product for use in conjunction with a computer. The computer program product comprises a computer readable storage medium and a computer program mechanism embedded therein. The computer program mechanism comprises instructions for i receiving a selection over a cellular network and ii providing over a cellular network as a function of said selection any of a a ranked list of music indicia b news and reviews relating to a music artist or band c information about a music artist or a band. In some embodiments the ranked list of music indicia comprises a ranked list of songs albums or ringtones. In some embodiments the ranked list of music indicia comprises Ringtone Top 20 R B HipHop Top 20 Rock Top 20 Pop Top 20 Latin Top 20 Country Top 20 or Rap Top 20. In some embodiments the ranked music indicia comprises ringtones ranked by a number of downloads in a predetermined time period. In some embodiments the predetermined time period is a minute an hour a day a week a month or a year.

The present invention provides systems and methods for communicating information between mobile devices and an application provisioning server . More specifically the present invention provides systems and methods for receiving one or more music items e.g. ringtones full track songs etc. from application provisioning server on mobile devices . In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention the music items are received in response to an electronic request such as a short message service SMS communication. In other embodiments the request may be communicated via a multi media messaging service MMS communication an enhanced messaging system EMS communication or a short messaging SM communication an instant messaging IM communication or an extended simple mail transfer protocol ESMTP message. Such communication formats are described in Longueuil 2001 first edition McGraw Hill Professional New York which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. See also Le Bodic 2003 John Wiley Sons New York Asia Pacific Telecom 2001 August Newsletter 5 8 19 Information Gatekeepers Inc. Le Bodic 2003 John Wiley Sons New York Dreamtech Software Team 2002 Instant Messaging Systems Cracking the Code Wiley Publishing Inc. New York and Hughes 1998 Artech House Publishers each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments application provisioning server comprises a central processing unit a user interface communications circuitry volatile memory nonvolatile memory and a bus to connect the aforementioned components. Application provisioning server further includes a power source to power the aforementioned components. Memory may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and the like. In some embodiments memory comprises high speed RAM for storing system control programs data and application programs e.g. programs and data loaded from non volatile storage via controller . In some embodiments user interface comprises one or more input devices e.g. keyboard key pad mouse scroll wheel and the like and a display or other output device. Network interface card or other communication circuitry provides for connection to any wired or wireless communications network which may include the Internet and or any other wide area network and in particular embodiments comprises a telephone network such as a mobile telephone network.

Operation of application provisioning server is controlled primarily by operating system . Operating system can be stored in system memory . In addition to operating system in a typical implementation system memory includes a file system for controlling access to the various files and data structures used by the present invention one or more application modules and one or more databases or data modules .

The one or more data modules may include any number of data structures or files for example content files such as ranked list of music indicia e.g. charts music items e.g. audio files such as songs ringtones etc. games music catalogs news views and discography etc. to be delivered to subscribers or users of system .

In some embodiments data is transferred from application provisioning server to mobile device . In some embodiments data is edited or modified by content management application so that the data is suitable for the specifications of a particular mobile device . For example the present invention supports a large variety of mobile devices with different specifications including screen resolution memory resources and processor speed. Content management module optimizes content files in accordance with the hardware specifications of each of mobile device supported by application provisioning server . In some embodiments mobile device sends a message to application provisioning server to report the specifications of mobile device . The information that will be communicated accordingly to mobile device will reflect those specifications. The method used to report the specifications of mobile devices can be one or applications that are run on such mobile devices e.g. application of or one or more non native applications e.g. music module of or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments each of the aforementioned data structures stored or accessible to application provisioning server are single data structures. In other embodiments any or all such data structures may comprise a plurality of data structures e.g. databases files archives that may or may not all be stored on application provisioning server . For example in some embodiments data modules comprise a plurality of structured and or unstructured data records that are stored on application provisioning server and or on computers that are addressable by application provisioning server across network .

Mobile devices are portable battery operated handheld devices whose primary source of communication with other devices is through the use of a cellular communication protocol. Examples of mobile devices include but are not limited to cellular telephones pagers and various forms of personal digital assistants PDAs . Typically a mobile device weighs less than half a pound and more typically weighs less than 5 to 8 ounces.

Exemplary cellular communication protocols used by mobile devices 12 presently include 1 G 2 G 2.5 G 2.75 G 3 G 3.5 G 3.75 G and 4 G. However the present invention contemplates future generations of cellular communication protocols and mobile devices of the present invention can use all such communication protocols.

Cellular communication protocols can be used to provide a network . Alternatively application provisioning server may be in communication with another computer through the Internet or other type of computer network e.g. LAN which in turn communicates with the cellular network that mobile devices use. Non limiting exemplary cellular communication protocols are disclosed in Table 1.

As specified in table 1 some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use 1 G cellular communication protocols such as Nordic mobile telephone NMT advanced mobile phone service AMPS Hicap by Nippon Telegraph and Telephone cellular digital packet data CDPD Mobitex and DataTac.

Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use 2 G cellular communication protocols such as frequency division multiple access FDMA time division multiple access TDMA code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM integrated digital enhanced network iDen digital AMPS D AMPS code division multiple access one CDMAone personal digital cellular PDC and circuit switched data CSD .

Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 2.5 G cellular communication protocol such as general packet radio service GPRS high speed circuit switched data HSCSD and wideband integrated dispatch enhanced network WiDEN . GPRS is based on Internet Protocols and has a throughput of up to 40 kbit s. GPRS provides data services such as color Internet browsing e mail video streaming multimedia messages and location based services. Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 2.5 G cellular communication protocol such as CDMA2000 1X. CDMA2000 1X enables operators with existing IS 95 systems to double overall system capacity yielding uplink speeds up to 76.8 kbps and downlink speeds up to 153.6 kbps. CDMA2000 1X supports e mail as well as access to the Internet and corporate networks. Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 2.5 G cellular communication protocol such as enhanced data for GSM evolution EDGE . EDGE provides 3 G packet data throughput on GSM networks and uses a modulation scheme to enable data throughput speeds of up to 384 kbit s using existing GSM infrastructures.

Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 3 G cellular communication protocol such as wide band CDMA WCDMA or TD SDCDMA. WCDMA has been designed for high speed data services and more particularly Internet based packet data offering up to 2 Mbps in stationary or office environments and up to 384 Kbps in wide area or mobile environments. WCDMA offer voices data motion video and other multimedia capabilities and increases data transmission rates in GSM systems by using CDMA instead of TDMA. See John Wiley Sons West Sussex England 2000 Holma and Toskala eds. which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 3 G cellular communication protocol such as CDMA2000 3X. CDMA2000 3x utilizes a pair of 3.75 MHz radio channels e.g. 3 1.25 MHz to achieve higher data rates. The 3x version of CDMA2000 is sometimes referred to as Multi Carrier or MC. Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 3 G cellular communication protocol such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO. CDMA2000 1xEV DO supports downlink forward link data rates up to 3.1 Mbit s and uplink reverse link data rates up to 1.8 Mbit s in a radio channel dedicated to carrying high speed packet data. Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 3 G cellular communication protocol over a Universal mobile telecommunication services UMTS network.

Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 3.5 G cellular communication protocol such as High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA . HSDPA extends WCDMA in the same way that EV DO extends CDMA2000. It is an evolution of the WCDMA standard and is designed to increase the available data rate by a factor of five or more. HSDPA defines a new WCDMA channel the high speed downlink shared channel HS DSCH that operates in a different way from existing W CDMA channels but is only used for downlink communication to the mobile.

Some mobile devices in accordance with the present invention use a 4 G cellular communication protocol such as HSUPA. HSUPA stands for High Speed Uplink Packet Access and describes a procedure for sending data through UMTS devices. HSUPA enables symmetrical data communications such as voice over internet protocol VoIP and interactive multimedia by better data rates and shorter delay. The suitable procedure for the receiving is HSDPA. Both HSUPA and HSDPA resemble each other technically and by the employment of special modulation procedures allow a higher extent of utilization of the net infrastructure.

In some embodiments mobile device makes use of a messaging service supported by the cellular communication protocol. For example in some embodiments mobile device communicates with application provisioning server using short messaging service SMS or enhanced messaging service EMS . Enhanced Messaging Services EMS is an enhanced version of Short Messaging Service SMS and is comprised of several text messages that are clustered together. EMS provides capabilities for more rich messaging features such as sending receiving ringtones and other melodies sounds pictures and animations and modified formatted text. Furthermore all of these can be sent received as one integrated message for display on an EMS compliant mobile device. EMS is designed to work with any network that already offers SMS using the same store and forward infrastructure as SMS. In some embodiments mobile device communicates with application provisioning server using Multi media Messaging Services MMS . Designed for 3 G and beyond networks as indicated in Table 1 MMS provides a technical solution of even richer media including text sounds images and video to MMS capable handsets. MMS utilizes open Internet standards for messaging.

The system and architecture of an exemplary mobile device is depicted in . In some embodiments mobile device is a processor based mobile computing and communications device comprising a central processing unit for controlling overall operation of the device an antenna for communicating over one or more networks volatile memory storage and nonvolatile memory storage . Mobile device comprises a user interface having a display for displaying text messages graphics and or other information to a user as well as a user input device such as a keypad soft keys buttons a scroll wheel or any other device for inputting user instructions and commands. Internal bus provides for interconnection of the aforementioned components of mobile device while power supply provides power to the aforementioned components of system . Although not shown mobile devices include an integrate microphone and a speaker and or headset jack.

Developments in technology and programming languages have allowed applications to be stored locally on mobile devices so that they may be executed when the user is outside an area where network coverage is provided. However these applications stored locally on mobile devices are sometimes limited by the compact nature of the devices. For example mobile devices have limited user interfaces such as small screens and condensed keyboards. Additionally mobile devices may be limited to very small amounts of memory sometimes a few hundred kilobytes.

A typical mobile device that can run non native applications such as Java based applications typically has one or more of the following capabilities a 16 bit or 32 bit processor with a clock speed of 16 MHz or higher at least 160 KB of non volatile memory at least 192 KB of total memory available for the Java platform low power consumption battery power operation capability and connectivity to a cellular network that is often intermittent and of limited bandwidth. To meet demands for services and software applications relating to these and similar devices various technologies including WAP Wireless Application Protocol and Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME have been developed to facilitate the creation and implementation of software applications that run on mobile devices .

Operation of mobile device is controlled primarily by native operating system which is executed by central processing unit . A native system e.g. a native operating system in mobile device refers to any system or application that is equipped with the mobile device by the original manufacturer of the mobile device. Native operating system can be stored in system memory . In addition to native operating system in a typical implementation system memory includes one or more native application modules and one or more databases or data modules .

In some embodiments messaging application may notify a user when updated information related to a music item or an artist or band has been received. Content management tools support a number of content management options such as for example content formatting validation scheduling and publishing staging and testing emergency replacement and alerts. As an example content management may include converting input string from a keypad of mobile device into formatted text for an address book a phone list or a schedule book. It also includes storage of a music item e.g. a ringtone a full track song etc. received by mobile device that may be accessed by mobile device at a later time.

In some embodiments system administration and monitoring tools allow a user to set a stored music item for example a ringtone as the default ringtone of mobile device . System administrative and monitoring tools can also replace a previously stored music item with a more recently downloaded music item. The replaced music item may then be deleted or stored for later use. In some embodiments native applications may further include additional customer support tools .

The one or more data modules may include any number of data structures or files for example content files such as ranked list of music indicia music items e.g. full track songs ringtones etc. games music catalogs as well as news view discography . In some embodiments data modules include one or more cached web pages .

In some embodiments user data is stored on mobile device to personalize mobile device . An example of user data stored on mobile device to personalize mobile device is discussed with more detail with respect to e.g. personal settings phone number zip code date of birth nickname alerts . In some embodiments the file contents that mobile device received from application provisioning server are saved on mobile device as cache data . Cache data can be managed either by hardware or software on mobile device . In some embodiments cached data is managed by software on mobile device .

In the following description and corresponding figures mobile device and related methods of using system to provide content to mobile device users are described in the context of delivering music items such as ringtones or billboard charts to a mobile device . One skilled in the art will appreciate that such music items are intended to be illustrative and nonlimiting and that various other types of messages or content may be provided to a mobile device user without departing from the scope of the present invention.

In embodiments in accordance with the present invention retrieving information e.g. a music item such as a ringtone or full track song through wireless network is achieved by non native platform . In one embodiment non native platform is a Java 2 micro edition J2ME configuration a J2ME profile and a J2ME application program interface API . In other embodiments non native platform is Symbian e.g. Series 60 Palm OS Microsoft Windows Mobile previously known as Pocket PC or equivalent platforms.

Non native applications for example music module can be executed on non native platform . In some embodiments music module is part of non native platform . In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention non native platform is used to implement a non native file system in memory and or .

The present invention provides communication systems and methods that deliver information between an application provisioning server and mobile devices . In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention the information that is communicated to mobile devices comprises ranked list of music indicia and a music catalog . For example in some embodiments in accordance with the present invention ranked list of music indicia is in the form of a ranked list of top songs or artists. In some embodiments the music catalog contains a library of ringtones that are available for downloading to mobile devices . In some embodiments the availability of music items may be communicated from application provisioning server to mobile devices through messaging application .

Java programming tools have been commonly used in application implementation on mobile devices with limited capacities. Java is known primarily as a server side programming environment centered around the technologies that make up the Java 2 Enterprise Edition J2EE such as Enterprise JavaBeans EJBs servlets and JavaServer pages JSPs and Java 2 Micro Edition J2ME . Detailed discussion of J2ME and its implementation in mobile devices is found in by Ortiz and Giguere 2001 2 John Wiley Sons first edition New York which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Java also known as the Jave 2 Platform is split into three editions Jave 2 Standard Edition J2SE Jave 2 Enterprise Edition J2EE and Jave 2 Micro Edition J2ME . Each edition of the platform provides a complete environment for running Java based applications including the Java virtual machine VM and runtime classes.

The three editions all target different kinds of applications running on different kinds of devices. Desktop based applications are developed using J2SE which provides the necessary user interface classes. Server based applications are developed using J2EE which emphasizes component based programming and deployment. Handheld and embedded devices are targeted by J2ME for example as non native platform of .

What separates one edition from another is primarily the set of class libraries that each edition defines. Loosely speaking J2ME may be considered a subset of J2SE and J2SE as a subset of J2EE. It is possible to run the same Java bytecode in each edition providing the classes referred to by the bytecode are available in all three editions. The catch of course is that J2ME based devices have fewer classes than what J2SE and J2EE provide especially the smaller devices. There are several thousand core J2SE runtime classes taking up ten to twenty megabytes of space which is simply too big for the majority of mobile devices . The various specifications that comprise J2ME are all defined through the Java Community Process JCP as is done with J2SE and J2EE. For more information see the main JCP web site.

Referring to one type of non native platform is the Jave 2 Micro Edition platform J2ME . J2ME comprises three core elements configurations profiles and optional packages such as application programming interfaces APIs . Collectively a configuration profile and some optional packages determine the features of Java that can be used which application programming interfaces APIs are available and how such applications are packaged.

Configurations . A configuration is a complete Java runtime environment consisting of three things a Java virtual machine VM to execute Java bytecode native code to interface to the underlying system and a set of core Java runtime classes. To use a configuration a mobile device must meet certain minimum requirements as defined in the configuration s formal specification. Although a configuration does provide a complete Java environment the set of core classes is normally quite small and must be enhanced with additional classes supplied by J2ME profiles or by a configuration implementer. In particular configurations do not define any user interface classes.

J2ME defines two configurations the Connected Limited Device Configuration CLDC and the Connected Device Configuration CDC . The CLDC is for very constrained limited devices. Such devices contain small amounts of memory and or slow processors for example a conventional mobile device such as a cell phone or a PDA. The VM used by CLDC omits important features like finalization while the set of core runtime classes is a tiny fraction of the J2SE core classes just the basics from the java.lang java.io and java.util packages with a few additional classes from the new javax.microedition.io package.

CLDC is designed to bring the many advantages of the Java platform to network connected devices that have limited processing power memory and graphical capability such as cellular phones pagers low end personal organizers and machine to machine equipment. In addition CLDC can also be deployed in home appliances TV set top boxes and point of sale terminals.

Profiles . A profile adds domain specific classes to a configuration to fill in missing functionality and to support specific uses of a device. For example most profiles define user interface classes for building interactive applications. To use a profile the device must meet all the minimum requirements of the underlying configuration as well as any additional requirements mandated by the profile s formal specification. There are several profiles . For instance the Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP is a CLDC based profile for running applications on cell phones and interactive pagers with small screens wireless HTTP connectivity and limited memory. Another CLDC based profile is the Personal Digital Assistant Profile PDAP which extends MIDP with additional classes and features for more powerful handheld devices. In terms of CDC based profiles the Foundation Profile FP extends the CDC with additional J2SE classes the Personal Basis Profile PBP PP extends the FP profile with lightweight AWT derived user interface classes and an application model and the Personal Profile extends the PBP with applet support and heavyweight UI classes. PP and FP are compatible with CDC while PDAP and MIDP are compatible with CLDC .

A MIDP application is referred to as a MIDlet . Essentially a MIDlet is a Java program for embedded devices more specifically the Java ME virtual machine. MIDlets generally run on any device that implements the MIDP profile . Generally MIDlets comprise games and applications that run on mobile devices .

In general a MIDlet has to fulfill some requirements in order to run on a mobile device . For example first the main class of a MIDlet needs to be a subclass of javax.microedition.midlet.MIDlet. Second the MIDlet needs to be packed inside a Java Archive JAR file e.g. by using the jar tool . Third the JAR file needs to be pre verified by using a pre verifier. Fourth in some cases the JAR file needs to be signed by the mobile phone s carrier.

One or more MIDlets are packaged together into a MIDlet suite which is basically a standard JAR file and a separate file called an application descriptor. All the user defined classes required by the suite s MIDlets are in the JAR file along with any other resources such as images that the MIDlets require. The JAR file also includes a manifest with a number of MIDP specific entries that describe the MIDlets in the suite. The application descriptor contains similar information and is used by devices to obtain information about a MIDlet suite without having to download and install the MIDlet suite first.

Additional APIs . Additional APIs support additional behaviors or functions that do not usually belong in one specific configuration or profile . Bluetooth support for example is defined as an optional package . Making Bluetooth support part of a profile does not work because none of the behaviors of a profile can be optional. If a device supports a profile it must support the entire profile. Therefore a profile containing Bluetooth support would limit the profile to Bluetooth enabled devices.

Like configurations and profiles optional APIs have their own minimum requirements. Optional APIs also have specific dependencies on a particular configuration and or one or more profiles . Optional APIs alone do not define a complete runtime environment. Instead they only define sets of related APIs. For example there are many optional APIs including the RMI optional package which adds RMI support to CDC based profiles the Java APIs for Bluetooth which adds Bluetooth support to CLDC based profiles and the JDBC optional package for CDC Foundation Profile which defines a subset of JDBC database access APIs for use with CDC FP based profiles.

In some embodiments messaging application enables mobile devices to establish SMS EMS MMS instant messages e mail messages or other forms of wireless cell phone based electronic communication through an internet portal in conjunction with browser application . In some embodiments customer support tools allow for the transfer of billing information .

In some embodiments music previewing is achieved by music module and receiving and storing of the music item is achieved separately by native browser application . In other embodiments music previewing receiving and storing of music items is provided by music module .

In some embodiments the application establishing the communication between application provisioning server and mobile device is music module . It is to be appreciated that in other embodiments customer support tools may be built to serve the same or similar function. In some embodiments music module is downloaded to mobile device using native browser application through wireless network . In some embodiments music module is permanently stored on mobile device such that only a license or code is needed to activate the application.

In some embodiments data on application provisioning server and mobile devices is organized similarly to promote efficient information communication between the two platforms. In some embodiments customer support application receives data requests from mobile device finds the data and delivers the data to mobile device .

Some embodiments in accordance with the present invention contain graphics and dynamically rendered fonts to enrich the user experience. Some embodiments feature an interface comprising a selection of modules for example charts containing ranked list of music indicia and or personalization options. Additional embodiments of the present invention comprise modules that provide news feeds artist information including biography discography reviews etc and or music trivia all collectively referenced in as news views discography . In one embodiment in accordance with the present invention one or modules further provide one or more links to relevant websites for example a purchase page where the user can pay for and download one or more products e.g. cell phone ringtones .

One exemplary embodiment in accordance with the present invention is the Billboard Mobile Channel program. The overall organization of the Billboard Mobile Channel program is depicted in . At the top level the Billboard Mobile Channel homepage is linked to multiples modules e.g. and in . The Billboard Mobile Channel homepage and its respective linked pages are examples of web page that are hosted by application provisioning server .

The modules linked to the Billboard Mobile Channel homepage are defined as top level functional moieties that may be accessed directly from the Billboard Mobile Channel homepage . In the exemplary embodiment the modules comprise a Billboard Charts module an Artist Features module a Daily Music News module called as a News and Reviews module in some embodiments a Music Quiz module a Concert module and a My Billboard module . Each of these modules is further linked to child pages. For example the Billboard Chart module is linked to the Billboard individual chart pages which in turn are linked to corresponding Billboard music store preview pages . On music store pages users may preview and or purchase selected music items. In some embodiments a selected music item e.g. a ringtone a full track song etc. is played on mobile device through standard mobile streaming technology without permanent storage. In other embodiments a selected music item e.g. a ringtone a full track song etc. is permanently stored on mobile device . Music items can be downloaded either through music store module or by using a native web browser that is already stored on mobile device . In some embodiments after the selected music item is permanently stored on mobile device a message e.g. a SMS PSMS EMS MMS instant messages e mail messages and or other type of electronic messages is delivered to the mobile to convey a charge for the music item . In some embodiments the information transfer is facilitated by a cellular network.

Also for example feature artist module is linked to genre pages where music genres are listed for example in alphabetical range listings . Such listings are examples of music catalogs . Within each genre artists or groups of artists are listed in artist listings page in accordance with an ordering scheme e.g. in alphabetical order in chronological order by most record sold etc. From artist listings page a user may further access individual artist pages . From an individual artist page a user may select to view discography tour dates and the artist biography of selected artists. Such artist information is one example of news views discography . From an individual artist page a user may also view a list ringtones of the selected artist at page and subsequently choose to purchase or preview the selected ringtone at music store preview page . In a separate example a user may access a Daily Music News Homepage from homepage . From Daily Music News Homepage module a user may select to read music news stories or see a music review listing . A complete version of the reviews is on music review story page which can be accessed by either Music Reviews Listing Page or Artist Homepage .

An exemplary embodiment of the Billboard Mobile Channel homepage may include additional modules for example a music quiz module also called a game module . Such games are examples of games of . Additional modules include concert or other local event module as well as a My Billboard Module where a user may set up alerts for news reviews or ringtones of favorite artists or bands. Such alerts are facilitated by SMS alerts and or messaging application . In some embodiments messaging application provides SMS alert functionality. In some embodiments rather than using SMS another form of messaging communication is used such as EMS or MMS.

Modules of the Billboard Mobile Channel Program. The initiation of the Billboard Mobile Channel program an example of music module on a mobile device is depicted by panel of . The launching page of the program comprises a program logo and a program version . In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention a part of the launching page of the program includes a static symbol or a dynamic animation of the symbol e.g. in . In some embodiments for example the Billboard Mobile Channel the program in accordance with the presentation is a graphically rich music information and discovery J2ME based application.

In some embodiments a customized registration screen is displayed on the screen of mobile device after the Billboard Mobile Channel program has launched. In some embodiments registration screen comprises an option for the user to enter a phone number a zip code and additional personalized information such as birthday and user nickname . In some embodiments registration screen also includes a back option to allow a user to go back to the previous screen and a menu option to allow a user to return to a menu page.

In some embodiments the Billboard Mobile Channel features a selection of ranked list of music indicia e.g. charts news feeds artist information for example news views discography etc. a trivia application and personalization options. In Billboard Mobile Channel artist or song related content include the option of being associated with a web link to a purchase page whereby the user can pay for and download select ringtones.

Charts. Charts module is a mobile re creation of the Billboard Charts. In some embodiments the module provides ranked list of music indicia comprising a ranked list of songs albums or ringtones. In some embodiments each ranked list of music indicia e.g. chart is labeled and each such ranked list of music indicia provides the ranking position for each of a plurality of songs over a given time period e.g. day week month year etc. . Some or all of the songs in such a ranked list of music indicia can be selected for ringtone purchase artist tone updates and linkage to individual artist pages. Some or all chart based ringtones are available for audio preview via a query and stream feature. In some embodiments ranked list of music indicia comprise instructions for providing ranked list of music indicia as a function of user directed input that includes an artist band orchestra or genre.

Detailed sub level embodiments of chart module are depicted in . illustrates collector page that guides subscribers of Billboard Mobile Channel through Specific Billboard branded charts. In an exemplary embodiment module is labeled as Charts e.g. in in an optional background that consists of a pattern and a color e.g. in . In an exemplary embodiment collector page comprises links to a plurality of ranked list of music indicia for example Ringtone Top 20 R B HipHop Top 20 Rock Top 20 Pop Top 20 Latin Top 20 Country Top 20 and Rap Top 20. In some embodiments a list in the plurality of ranked list of music indicia for example Ringtone Top 20 list comprises a list of the top ringtones ranked by number of downloads. R B HipHop Top 20 Rock Top 20 Pop Top 20 Latin Top 20 Country Top 20 and Rap Top 20 pages comprises a ranked list of music indicia that are sorted by genre. The order of the ranked items in a particular ranked list of music indicia is predetermined for example by the Billboard magazine or by Internet download records. In some embodiments the ranked list of music indicia on collector page are updated in accordance with Billboard magazine or Internet download record.

The number of ranked lists of music indicia presented on page is potentially unlimited. From a usability point of view it is recommended that no more than 20 ranked lists of music indicia charts be included in some embodiments. The rationale is that the recommended maximum number of line items per page is twenty so users only have to proceed through at most two pages in order to see the entire list of available ranked lists of music indicia e.g. charts . In alternative embodiments in accordance with the present invention page may comprises fewer than 20 ranked lists of music indicia . In other embodiments page may comprise more than 20 ranked lists of music indicia . In some embodiments page may comprise 5 ranked lists of indicia or more 10 ranked lists of music indicia or more 15 ranked lists of music indicia or more 20 ranked lists of music indicia or more 30 ranked lists of music indicia or more or 50 ranked lists of music indicia or more.

The order of the ranked lists of music indicia in Billboard Charts can be configured differently from the order illustrated in . For example ranked lists of music indicia can be modified to include new or additional items. In some embodiments the default item order is alphabetic. In some embodiments the ranked lists of music indicia categories are used to drive the list of genres that are employed in the application to categorize artists and new releases. In one of the embodiments of Billboard Mobile Channel the header color of chart module is purple. In some embodiments the accessibility to chart module is restricted to Billboard Mobile Channel and Billboard Chart subscribers. In some embodiments users may choose to go back to the previous screen via a back option e.g. in and to return to a menu page via a menu option e.g. in . Selecting a ranked list of music indicia e.g. chart from among the plurality of ranked lists of music indicia in page leads to a more detailed ranked list of music indicia e.g. depicted as chart in . In some embodiments the selected ranked lists of music indicia in is highlighted in a color that is different from other ranked lists of music indicia in page e.g. shown as selection in .

In some embodiments a detailed ranked list of music indicia comprises top twenty music items e.g. top 20 ringtones shown as chart in . In some embodiments an item in a ranked list of music indicia comprises the title of a music item the ranking of the music item over a first time period e.g. previous minute previous hour previous day previous week previous month previous year previous decade eternity and the ranking of the item from another time period e.g. in . In some embodiments when selected a music item is highlighted in a color that is different from other music items on the list e.g. in . In alternative embodiments a ranked top ringtone list or a ranked top music item list examples of ranked lists of music indicia may comprise more than twenty items. In some embodiments a ranked top ringtone list comprises fewer than 20 items. In some embodiments a ranked list of music indicia comprises 5 music items or more 10 music items or more 15 music items or more 20 music items or more 30 music items or more or 50 music items or more. In addition the ranked list of music indicia is not restricted to a ringtone list or to a ranked list of any music genre.

Selecting a music item from a ranked list as shown in provides a link to a music store module e.g. in . In music store module a title is depicted on background . Music Store module further comprises information about music items e.g. title of the music item performing artist or group of artists and record year depicted as in and a photo of the artist or group of artists when available e.g. in . In some embodiments music store module further provides a link where a user may purchase the selected music item a link to the artist or group of artists that are associated with the selected music item e.g. in and a choice to configure the selected music as one of the favorites e.g. in . In addition music store module provides a user the option of previewing the selected music item by using option . In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention option provides a user the option of adjusting the volume of and replaying the selected music item as depicted in . In other embodiments a selected music item e.g. a ringtone a full track song etc. may be permanently stored on mobile device . In such embodiments the music item may be downloaded either through music store module or by using a native web browser that is already stored on mobile device .

After previewing or purchasing the selected music item the user can opt to go back to the previous module via the back option or to return to the top level menu of the Billboard e.g. in . In addition in some embodiments for at least one page in chart module a scroll bar e.g. in is used to navigate the content listed on the page.

News Reviews. The News Reviews module of the exemplary embodiment of Billboard Mobile Channel program depicted as News Review module in draws information from the Billboard.com XML news feed. News Reviews module provides music related news and reviews comprises instructions for providing music related news and reviews as a function of user directed input that includes a designated venue artist band orchestra genre zip code group of artists or album. The news and reviews provided by News Reviews module concerns a venue artist band orchestra genre zip code group of artists or album. In some embodiments the information accessible through News Reviews module is updated every hour day week month or year if there is new information available . The details of News Reviews module are depicted in . Selecting News Review module from top menu leads a user to front page of . The title of front page is shown as in a background that comprises a pattern and a color. In some embodiments the pattern and color in background are different from the pattern and color defined in background . Front page of New Reviews module provides subscribers access to one leading feature story e.g. in and a photo for example of the artist or group of artists associated with the leading feature story when available e.g. in . Featured headline is followed immediately by a link to a review module . In some embodiments front page comprises a list of all of the other headlines e.g. in for the day.

By selecting read story from front page a user can access the full length feature headline on in . The full length feature headline page retains the title and the photo associated with the headline story e.g. in . In addition the full feature story is shown as .

By selecting reviews from News Reviews front page a user may access a review page depicted as in . Like the other front pages the title is shown in Reviews front page . The title of the feature review e.g. in is shown along with a photo associated with the review e.g. in . Titles of additional reviews e.g. in are also listed on front page in . By selecting read review and one of the titles of the additional reviews in provides the user the full length of the select review e.g. in . In the title of the selected review e.g. is depicted with the photo associated with the selected review e.g. in as well as the full length review e.g. in .

At the front page or any other page in News Review module a user can choose to go back to a previous page via the back option e.g. in or to return to the top menu page via the menu option e.g. in . In addition at least in some embodiments and one at least one page in News Review module a scroll bar e.g. in is used to navigate the content listed on the page.

Artists. Artists module draws information from the All Music Guide XML feed. Artist module provides information about artists or groups of artists. Users can search by genre and artist. In some embodiments Artist module comprises instructions for providing information about an artist or a group of artists as a function of user directed input that includes an artist band orchestra or genre. Each artist page consists of the following categories tour dates biography news discography ringtones get artist update. Front page of artist module comprises a title on a background the name and genre of a featured artist a photo associated with a featured artist or group of artists e.g. in and a list of genre e.g. in . Background comprises a color and a pattern that is associated with artist module . In some embodiments the background color and pattern defined in in are unique to artist module . From the artist genre list a user can access a dedicated artist genre page e.g. in where artists in a particular genre are arranged in alphabetic order. A featured artist page can be accessed from artist front page through the more option e.g. in .

In some embodiments genre list in Artist module is the same as the Chart genre categories in chart module . For example in some embodiments the genres to be used at launch are R B HipHop pop rock Latin country and rap e.g. in . Selecting a genre type e.g. in provides a user access to an artist genre page e.g. in . Within the artist genre list subheader identifies the current genre while artists in the current genre are listed by order e.g. in . In some embodiments the ordering of genres is an alphabetic order. Selecting an alphabet range e.g. in allows a user access to an artist list page containing a catalog of artists . Selecting an artist from the catalog of artist provides a user access to an artist page e.g. in . Artist page comprises the name of the artist or band e.g. in the genre of the artist or group of artists e.g. in and a photo associated with the artist or group of artists e.g. in . In some embodiments artist page further comprises a link to the news page e.g. in a link to the artist discography page e.g. in a link to ringtones by the selected artist e.g. in and an option for the user to set the selected artist or group of artists as one of the favorite artists or group of artists e.g. in 

Ringtone option in provides access to a ringtone page of . A catalog of ringtones associated with the selected artist or group of artists are provided in ringtone page . Selecting a ringtone in leads a user to the music store page e.g. in where the user is provided with the choice of previewing and purchasing the ringtone.

Discography option in provides access to an artist discography page of where albums associated with the selected artist or group of artists are listed according to a pre determined order as a catalog . In some embodiments the pre determined order is an alphabetic order. In other embodiments the pre determined order is a chronological order of the publication date of the albums. Selecting one album from the list of albums in artist discography leads a user to the appropriate album e.g. in .

In some embodiments the artist title option of provides access to an artist biography page of . Artist biography page comprises a title of the biography e.g. in a photo associated with the selected artist or group of artists e.g. in and a biography of the selected artist or group of artists e.g. in .

In some embodiments the listing of genres in artist module is same as those listed for Music Reviews New Releases Homepage . In other embodiments the listing of genres in artist module needs not to be the same as those listed for Music Reviews and New Releases Homepage . The number of genres supported in will not be limited. Although from a usability point of view it is recommended that no more than 20 genres should be listed in in . The rationale for this is that the recommended maximum number of line items per page is 20 should not require that users proceed through two or more pages to see the entire list of genres. In some embodiments the artist page comprises 5 genres or more 10 genres or more 15 genres or more 20 genres or more 30 genres or more and 50 genres or more.

At the front page or any other page in artist module a user can choose to go back to a previous page via the back option e.g. in or to return to the top menu page via menu option in . In addition at least in some embodiments at least one page in artist module has a scroll bar which is used to navigate the content listed on the page.

Concerts. In some embodiments concerts module of draws information from the Celebrity Access XML feed. In some embodiments concert module comprises instructions for identifying the music related event as a function of user directed input that includes a designated venue artist and or zip code. The front page of concert module is shown as page in where a title is depicted over a background . Background comprises a color and a pattern. In some embodiments the color and pattern defined in background is unique to concert module . From front page a user may choose to list all local events e.g. by selecting in . In some embodiments local events are selected for listing in accordance with a zip code information previously entered by a user during the initial registration process e.g. in . For example after option is selected one or more of the major acts and events occurring in the local area are listed e.g. in . A subheader shows the location of the local events. A user may further access a specific local event by selecting an event from the list of local events e.g. in .

Alternatively a user may choose to list events by using one or more of the search functions in . A user may enter the name of an artist or a group of artist in to search for events related to a particular artist or group of artists. A user may also choose to enter the name of a venue e.g. in to list events occurring in the selected venue choice. In some embodiments the designated venue is a city town village county building and or state. A user may choose to enter a city a state a zip code or GPS coordinates to list events occurring within a predetermined geographical region such as a city state or zip code e.g. in . For example panel depicts a list of venues in a certain geographic area e.g. a list of venues in Boston Mass. are shown in in . A user may further identify local events in a particular venue by selecting the venue from the list of venues .

The definition of the local area will be based on a radius from a user s zip code. The radius size will be variable depending on the population densities in and around a user s zip code. For example large urban areas like Los Angeles New York and Chicago will have a small radius. Smaller markets such as Cleveland Pittsburgh Little Rock and Buffalo and will have a larger radius. In some embodiments information on local events are updated daily.

At the front page or any other page in concert module a user can choose to go back to a previous page via the back option e.g. in or to return to the top menu page via the menu option e.g. in . In addition at least in some embodiments and one at least one page in Concert module a scroll bar e.g. in is used to navigate the content listed on the page.

Games. The Billboard Trivia application also known as the game music quiz module or game module in is based on content from the on line Billboard crossword puzzle. The trivia application will automatically update weekly by the appropriate product. A front page of game music quiz module is shown as panel in . Game music quiz module presents the user with up to 60 trivia questions that are based on the Billboard Crossword puzzle. The front page includes a title on a background . Background comprises a pattern and a color. In some embodiments the pattern and color defined by background is unique to game module . The front page of game module also comprises an index e.g. in and a question to the trivia Game e.g. in as well as a set of blank boxes e.g. in where a user may enter his or her answers corresponding to the question provided.

In some embodiments the answer to a clue in game module may include letter or number or a combination thereof. A user may use the scroll key and the phone keypad to enter the letters or numbers in answer box at the location they deem appropriate. A user has the choice of submitting the answer enter through an option not illustrated in requesting that the application provide a hint to the trivia game e.g. in or skipping the current trivia question to select a different question e.g. in . In some embodiments a user may choose to correct an answer e.g. in before submitting the answer for a score e.g. in . Correct answers will be acknowledged and the user will be invited to proceed to the next trivia question. The user will also be told their score for each question answered. Incorrect answers will be identified and the user will be given the option of getting the answer or to retry the current trivia question. In some embodiments at any time in the trivia game the user can press hint key and the application will fill in one of the blanks in . In some embodiments using the hint option will reduce the score that will be provided to the user upon submission of the answer. In some embodiments a perfect score where the user gets the correct answer with no assistance from the application will be equal to the number of letters in the word. In some embodiments a total score for a user will be presented after the completion of all trivia questions. In some embodiments a partial score for a user will be presented after partial completion of the trivia questions. In some embodiments the final score is normalized and presented as a percentage such that scores for different users may be ranked. In some embodiments all questions and answers used in game module are updated on a periodic basis e.g. hourly daily weekly monthly etc. or on a nonperiodic basis. At any time when executing game module a user may choose to leave game module by choosing quit option .

My Billboard. Under My Billboard module of users can manage their experience by modifying location phone number and alerts. A top page shown as in allows users to view and edit their preferences for an application e.g. Billboard Mobile Channel . In some embodiments My Billboard module at is not a global control panel. For example the signup for charts and artist alerts may be done at the individual Billboard Chart or Artist Pages as illustrated in . At the top page a title for My Billboard module e.g. in is depicted on a background . In some embodiments background comprises a pattern and a color. In some embodiments the pattern and color defined by background are unique to My Billboard module .

In some embodiments SMS PSMS EMS MMS instant messages e mail messages and or other types of electronic messages are used to alert a user of the availability of any music item that the user has previously defined as of interest. In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention a user may choose to view and configure their message delivery preferences to define a time of day for delivery of such messages and or to turn on or off the message delivery e.g. in . A user may add or edit alerts using option in . All current alerts that the subscriber has signed up for can be listed thereby allowing a user to delete or modify each alert independently. An exemplary page depicts a list of alerts a user may include to individualize notifications page . A mechanism or procedure is provided in some embodiments to ensure that the message e.g. SMS numbers used by the application are indeed those of the registered end user. In other embodiments such alert messages are communicated to a mobile device through other message protocols such as PSMS EMS MMS instant messages e mail messages and or other types of electronic messages.

In some embodiments a user may select page by selecting option in order to view and edit their location information such as zip code phone number and additional personal information including date of birth and nickname . In some embodiments a user may select option of panel in order to view and cancel their subscription to a registered program or application e.g. Billboard Mobile Channel .

In some embodiments a music item is received by a mobile device as a registered application. In the registered application embodiments a set of high level computer instructions that would typically be implemented using a standard application framework and class library are implemented using a modified application framework and classes that allow application provisioning server to provide licensing and application management services. An application modified in this way is herein referred to as a registered application. At a high level a registered application may be a non native application that can be downloaded to and permanently stored on a mobile device e.g. music module in . Alternatively at a lower level a registered application may be a music item that can be downloaded to and permanently stored on a mobile device .

For example a registered application can be implemented in a J2ME environment e.g. where the top level application is called a MIDlet. MIDlets are analogous to Applets used in web browsers and are named after the Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP e.g. in . The MIDlet is the root of all MIDP applications and can be started paused and stopped by the Java Application Manager on the device. The typical application skeleton or class shell for a standard MIDlet includes a StartApp method that corresponds with a hierarchy of MIDlet related class files. In some embodiments based on a J2ME environment the standard MIDlet shell is updated so that a RegisteredStart method and corresponding MIDlet related class library files replace the standard StartApp method and corresponding RegisteredMIDlet related class library files.

This modified design allows an application provisioning server to take control and perform tasks such as license verification digital rights management etc. before passing control back to the registered application running on a device. The registered application framework can be used to support developers across a range of available mobile devices and can insulate developers from various carrier or service provider requirements.

By passing control to the application provisioning server in some embodiments the registered application e.g. a music item such as a ringtone can be used to prevent unwanted copying of the application from device to device. For example a license key can be downloaded onto a mobile device on which the registered application is initially installed. When the registered application is first run from the mobile device application provisioning server can then verify the license key.

The use of the registered application in this way prevents a copy from being executed without the license key because the license key is configured so that it is not copied when the application is copied from one device to another.

The registered application may support a variety of licensing arrangements. For example a software application license can be tagged with an expiration date or a limited number of uses. In addition many variations of server based charging policies may be applied including rental rental subscription limited free trial coin op feature charging etc. With many of these charging models if an application user s license expires the application may refer back to the license server for a new license at which point a further charge to the user s account can be made subject to the user s approval.

Besides facilitating licensing and prevention of copying the registered application may facilitate the generation and monitoring of other types of billing events associated with a user s account e.g. feature charging customer support tools in . For example a user may be charged for cheat codes or hints associated with an electronic game. In addition the registered application may allow for sending user data such as high scores to the provisioning server and optionally to charge for such services according to a policy set by the provisioning server. For example a user of a game application may be able to post his her high score to a central leader board seen by all other players either downloaded back onto the mobile device or viewable from the mobile device s WAP browser or a web browser.

Web retail models have demonstrated the value of incorporating user feedback into a catalog used to display lists of applications available to users. In some embodiments the registered application allows the user to provide such feedback. For example a user may rate an application after it is purchased. This rating may be posted to a server and used to generate popularity statistics. Applications can then be presented in application catalog menus in order of popularity increasing the likelihood of user satisfaction with a download as user ratings are a more precise measure than the number of downloads.

The registered application may also provide various services to developers. For example developers may initially design applications using a single scaled down version of the registered application creating a general version of the registered application. Later the facility can substitute a specific version of the registered application appropriate for a specific user s particular mobile device and or service without having to involve the developer in this stage.

Additionally the registered application may allow for easy upgrades of already installed registered applications allowing application developers to continue to improve their applications even after they have been distributed in the consumer market. A server may keep track of which versions of registered applications individual users have downloaded allowing updates to be deployed to them. Registered applications may automatically check for updates. Many options are available for billing or charging users for updates. For example updates that fix problems may be made freely available while new improved versions might incur an upgrade fee.

As well as eliminating a cycle of updates with developers the registered application may also provide some other standardization such as elements of the application s user interface e.g. how to present error states or game intro sequences .

Once a non native application is developed using the registered application framework the application may be prepared for download. In some embodiments a provisioning server prepares and processes the application. The registered application is bound within an application package prior to download. The application package may contain for example Joint Application Development JAD and JAR files along with a brochure screenshots and other information about the application e.g. target mobile device language version etc. .

In the case where the developer programmer uses a scaled down version of the registered application during development binding the registered application in a JAR file may involve packaging the application with a more robust version of the registered application that corresponds to for example a carrier s infrastructure e.g. which application provisioning server and digital rights management the carrier is using . In the case of an MIDP application as depicted in this may involve replacing the registered MIDlet class file in the application JAR. In addition a unique version of the registered application may be available for each of the mobile devices being supported by a particular carrier. In this way the application package may be deployed with the correct registered application without the distributor having to go through a cycle with the developer. In some embodiments the application provisioning server could bind the correct registered application with the JAR file on the fly. 

In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention the music item communicated from provisioning server to mobile devices is a ringtone. Exemplary ringtones include but are not limited to monophonic ringtones polyphonic ringtones music ringtones RTTTL or Nokring formatted ringtones to name a few.

Monophonic Ringtones. Early mobile devices had the ability to play only monophonic ringtones short tunes played with simple tones. These early phones also had the ability to have ringtones programmed into them using an internal ringtone composer. Various formats were developed to enable ringtones to be sent via SMS text for example RTTTL encoding.

Polyphonic Ringtones. Polyphonic means that multiple notes can be played at the same time using instrument sounds such as guitar drums electronic piano etc. Many mobile devices are now able to play more complex polytones. For example some mobile devices can play up to 128 individual notes using different instruments that are played simultaneously in order to give a more realistic musical sound. Polyphonic ringtones are based upon midi sequences that can pool in more than 100 different midi sounds. Many polyphonic capable mobile devices are able to play standard midi files others play sp midi which is scalable polyphony and depending on the number of channels the phone can play the handset will render that many notes. Many mobile devices support SMAF .mmf files which are based upon a sound format devised by Yamaha.

Music ringtones. A new version of ringtones often called either music ringtones voice tones mastertones realtones singtones or true tones now use actual pieces of music along with all lyrics and the entire song backing music including backing singers. They are usually contained in AAC MP3 WMA WAV QCP or AMR format that can be used as a ringtone on many mobile devices . Many mobile device manufacturers include voice ringtones on most of their newly released phones including Motorola Nokia and Sony Ericsson. Mobile devices from different manufactures may be designed to use different ringtone formats. For example there are at least three types of ringtone text formats for Nokia mobile devices .

RTTTL or Nokring format. The RTTTL format is used by programs such as Nokring or LogoManager to upload ringtones to mobile devices via SMS. An example of RTTTL format is SongTitle d 4 o 6 b 63 c d e 16p 8a .7.

The present invention provides systems and methods for providing entertainment related services on mobile devices. In one embodiment a menu in a program permanently stored on a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant is executed. Then a first module from the menu is selected thereby providing access to a catalog of music items. The user makes a selection of a music item from the catalog. The music item is then retrieved from a remote server. In some embodiments the menu comprises a plurality of modules where at least one module in the plurality of modules provides a link to ranked music indicia.

In some embodiments in accordance with the present invention the communication method further comprises an additional step of obtaining a message that is communicated by a short message service SMS communication an enhanced messaging system EMS communication or a multi media messaging service MMS communication. In some embodiments the purpose of this message is to provide details of the transaction including for example the amount charge to an account for downloading a particular music item.

In some embodiments the catalog of music items comprises a plurality of ringtones a plurality of songs or any combination thereof. In some embodiments the music item is permanently stored on a mobile device whereas in other embodiments the music item is not permanently stored on a mobile device.

In some embodiments a module in the plurality of modules provides ranked music indicia. Examples of ranked music indicia include but are not limited to ranked lists of songs albums and ringtones. In some embodiments the module that provides ranked music indicia comprises instructions for providing ranked music indicia as a function of user directed input that includes an artist band orchestra or genre.

In some embodiments a module in the plurality of modules provides music related news and reviews. In some embodiments such music related news and reviews is provided as a function of user directed input. Example of user directed input includes but is not limited to a designated venue artist band orchestra genre zip code city town village group of artists or album. As such in some embodiments the news and reviews concerns a venue artist band orchestra genre zip code group of artists or album.

In some embodiments a module in the plurality of modules provides information about an artist band or musical genre. In some embodiments such information comprises the discography of an artist or band and or news or a review of the artist or band. In some embodiments the information provided further comprises the biography of an artist or band and or the ranked ringtone list of the artist or band. In some embodiments the module that provides information about an artist or band comprises instructions for providing information about an artist or band as a function of user directed input that includes a name of an artist band orchestra or musical genre.

In some embodiments a module in the plurality of modules provides information about a music event for example a concert. In some embodiments the music event is a concert performed by an artist or band. In some embodiments the music event takes place in a designated venue for example a city town village county building or state. In some embodiments the module comprises instructions for identifying the music event as a function of user directed input that includes a designated venue artist city town state street address telephone number or zip code. In some embodiments a module in the plurality of modules provides access to a game for example a music related trivia game. In some embodiments a score of the game is retrieved from the mobile device and ranked by a remote server.

In some embodiments a module in the plurality of modules provides a platform to create a user profile that individualizes communication and services. In an exemplary embodiment a user profile comprises a setting for message delivery or a notification of a ringtone.

In some embodiments the menu in the communication program is executed in a J2ME environment. In some embodiments the execution of the communication program requires a verification process such as the exchange of a license code or password between an application provisioning server and the mobile device prior to execution of the menu. In some embodiments the program is downloaded to the mobile device through a wireless communication with an application provisioning server. In some embodiments the program comprises a MIDlet. In some embodiments the communication program is configured to receive updates from the application provisioning server. In some embodiments the catalog of music items is stored on the application provisioning server.

The present invention can be implemented as a computer program product that comprises a computer program mechanism embedded in a computer readable storage medium. For instance the computer program product could contain the program modules shown in and or . These program modules can be stored on a CD ROM DVD magnetic disk storage product or any other computer readable data or program storage product. The program modules can also be embedded in permanent storage such as ROM one or more programmable chip or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Such permanent storage can be localized in a server 802.11 access point 802.11 wireless bridge station repeater router mobile phone or other electronic devices. The software modules in the computer program product can also be distributed electronically via the Internet or otherwise by transmission of a computer data signal in which the software modules are embedded either digitally or on a carrier wave.

Many modifications and variations of this invention can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The specific embodiments described herein are offered by way of example only and the invention is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

