---

title: Video description system and method
abstract: Systems and methods for describing video content establish video description records which include an object set (), an object hierarchy () and entity relation graphs (). Video objects can include global objects, segment objects and local objects. The video objects are further defined by a number of features organized in classes, which in turn are further defined by a number of feature descriptors (, and ). The relationships () between and among the objects in the object set () are defined by the object hierarchy () and entity relation graphs (). The video description records provide a standard vehicle for describing the content and context of video information for subsequent access and processing by computer applications such as search engines, filters and archive systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08370869&OS=08370869&RS=08370869
owner: The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York
number: 08370869
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060606
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 09 831 218 filed Dec. 11 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 143 434 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 118 020 filed Feb. 1 1999 U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 118 027 filed Feb. 1 1999 and U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 107 463 filed Nov. 6 1998 each of which are incorporated by reference herein and from which priority is claimed.

This invention was made with government support under grant number 8811111 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to techniques for describing multimedia information and more specifically to techniques which describe video information and the content of such information.

With the maturation of the global Internet and the widespread employment of regional networks and local networks digital multimedia information has become increasingly accessible to consumers and businesses. Accordingly it has become progressively more important to develop systems that process filter search and organize digital multimedia information so that useful information can be culled from this growing mass of raw information.

At the time of filing the instant application solutions exist that allow consumers and business to search for textual information. Indeed numerous text based search engines such as those provided by yahoo.com goto.com excite.com and others are available on the World Wide Web and are among the most visited Web sites indicating the significant of the demand for such information retrieval technology.

Unfortunately the same is not true for multimedia content as no generally recognized description of this material exists. In this regard there have been past attempts to provide multimedia databases which permit users to search for pictures using characteristics such as color texture and shape information of video objects embedded in the picture. However at the closing of the 20th Century it is not yet possible to perform a general search the Internet or most regional or local networks for multimedia content as no broadly recognized description of this material exists. Moreover the need to search for multimedia content is not limited to databases but extends to other applications such as digital broadcast television and multimedia telephony.

One industry wide attempt to develop a standard multimedia description framework has been through the Motion Pictures Expert Group s MPEG MPEG 7 standardization effort. Launched in October 1996 MPEG 7 aims to standardize content descriptions of multimedia data in order to facilitate content focused applications like multimedia searching filtering browsing and summarization. A more complete description of the objectives of the MPEG 7 standard are contained in the International Organisation for Standardisation document ISO IEC JTC1 SC29 WG11 N2460 October 1998 the content of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The MPEG 7 standard has the objective of specifying a standard set of descriptors as well as structures referred to as description schemes for the descriptors and their relationships to describe various types of multimedia information. MPEG 7 also proposes to standardize ways to define other descriptors as well as description schemes for the descriptors and their relationships. This description i.e. the combination of descriptors and description schemes shall be associated with the content itself to allow fast and efficient searching and filtering for material of a user s interest. MPEG 7 also proposes to standardize a language to specify description schemes i.e. a Description Definition Language DDL and the schemes for binary encoding the descriptions of multimedia content.

At the time of filing the instant application MPEG is soliciting proposals for techniques which will optimally implement the necessary description schemes for future integration into the MPEG 7 standard. In order to provide such optimized description schemes three different multimedia application arrangements can be considered. These are the distributed processing scenario the content exchange scenario and the format which permits the personalized viewing of multimedia content.

Regarding distributed processing a description scheme must provide the ability to interchange descriptions of multimedia material independently of any platform any vendor and any application which will enable the distributed processing of multimedia content. The standardization of interoperable content descriptions will mean that data from a variety of sources can be plugged into a variety of distributed applications such as multimedia processors editors retrieval systems filtering agents etc. Some of these applications may be provided by third parties generating a sub industry of providers of multimedia tools that can work with the standardized descriptions of the multimedia data.

A user should be permitted to access various content providers web sites to download content and associated indexing data obtained by some low level or high level processing and proceed to access several tool providers web sites to download tools e.g. Java applets to manipulate the heterogeneous data descriptions in particular ways according to the user s personal interests. An example of such a multimedia tool will be a video editor. A MPEG 7 compliant video editor will be able to manipulate and process video content from a variety of sources if the description associated with each video is MPEG 7 compliant. Each video may come with varying degrees of description detail such as camera motion scene cuts annotations and object segmentations.

A second scenario that will greatly benefit from an interoperable content description standard is the exchange of multimedia content among heterogeneous multimedia databases. MPEG 7 aims to provide the means to express exchange translate and reuse existing descriptions of multimedia material.

Currently TV broadcasters Radio broadcasters and other content providers manage and store an enormous amount of multimedia material. This material is currently described manually using textual information and proprietary databases. Without an interoperable content description content users need to invest manpower to translate manually the descriptions used by each broadcaster into their own proprietary scheme. Interchange of multimedia content descriptions would be possible if all the content providers embraced the same content description schemes. This is one of the objectives of MPEG 7.

Finally multimedia players and viewers that employ the description schemes must provide the users with innovative capabilities such as multiple views of the data configured by the user. The user should be able to change the display s configuration without requiring the data to be downloaded again in a different format from the content broadcaster.

The foregoing examples only hint at the possible uses for richly structured data delivered in a standardized way based on MPEG 7. Unfortunately no prior art techniques available at present are able to generically satisfy the distributed processing content exchange or personalized viewing scenarios. Specifically the prior art fails to provide a technique for capturing content embedded in multimedia information based on either generic characteristics or semantic relationships or to provide a technique for organizing such content. Accordingly there exists a need in the art for efficient content description schemes for generic multimedia information.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a description scheme for video content which is extensible.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a description scheme for video content which is scalable.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a description scheme for video content which satisfies the requirements of proposed media standards such as MPEG 7.

It is an object of the present invention to provide systems and methods for describing video content.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide systems and methods for describing video content which are extensible.

It is another object of the present invention to provide systems and method for describing video content which are scalable.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide systems and methods for describing video content which satisfies the requirements of proposed media standards such as MPEG 7

In accordance with the present invention a first method of describing video content in a computer database record includes the steps of establishing a plurality of objects in the video characterizing the objects with a plurality of features of the objects and relating the objects in a hierarchy in accordance with the features. The method can also include the further the step of relating the objects in accordance with at least one entity relation graph.

Preferably the objects can take the form of local objects such as a group of pixels within a frame segment objects which represent one or more frames of a video clip and global objects. The objects can be extracted from the video content automatically semi automatically or manually.

The features used to define the video objects can include visual features semantic features media features and temporal features. A further step in the method can include assigning feature descriptors to further define the features.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention computer readable media is programmed with at least one video description record describing video content. The video description record which is preferably formed in accordance with the methods described above generally includes a plurality of objects in the video a plurality of features characterizing said objects and a hierarchy relating at least a portion of the video objects in accordance with said features.

Preferably the description record for a video clip further includes at least one entity relation graph. It is also preferred that the features include at least one of visual features semantic features media features and temporal features. Generally the features in the description record can be further defined with at least one feature descriptor.

A system for describing video content and generating a video description record in accordance with the present invention includes a processor a video input interface operably coupled to the processor for receiving the video content a video display operatively coupled to the processor and a computer accessible data storage system operatively coupled to the processor. The processor is programmed to generate a video description record of the video content for storage in the computer accessible data storage system by performing video object extraction processing entity relation graph processing and object hierarchy processing of the video content.

In this exemplary system video object extraction processing can include video object extraction processing operations and video object feature extraction processing operations.

Throughout the figures the same reference numerals and characters unless otherwise stated are used to denote like features elements components or portions of the illustrated embodiments. Moreover while the subject invention will now be described in detail with reference to the figures it is done so in connection with the illustrative embodiments. It is intended that changes and modifications can be made to the described embodiments without departing from the true scope and spirit of the subject invention as defined by the appended claims.

The present invention constitutes a description scheme DS for images wherein simple but powerful structures representing generic image data are utilized. Although the description scheme of the present invention can be used with any type of standard which describes image content a preferred embodiment of the invention is used with the MPEG 7 standard. Although any Description Definition Language DDL may be used to implement the DS of the present invention a preferred embodiment utilizes the extensible Markup Language XML which is a streamlined subset of SGML Standard Generalized Markup Language ISO 8879 developed specifically for World Wide Web applications. SGML allows documents to be self describing in the sense that they describe their own grammar by specifying the tag set used in the document and the structural relationships that those tags represent. XML retains the key SGML advantages in a language that is designed to be vastly easier to learn use and implement than full SGML. A complete description of XML can be found at the World Wide Web Consortium s web page on XML at http www.w3.org XML the contents of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The primary components of a characterization of an image using the description scheme of the present invention are objects feature classifications object hierarchies entity relation graphs multiple levels of abstraction code downloading and modality transcoding all of which will be described in additional detail below. In the description scheme of the present invention an image document is represented by a set of objects and relationships among objects. Each object may have one or more associated features which are generally ground into the following categories media features visual features and semantic features. Each feature can include descriptors that can facilitate code downloading by pointing to external extraction and similarity matching code. Relationships among objects can be described by object hierarchies and entity relation graphs. Object hierarchies can also include the concept of multiple levels of abstraction. Modality transcoding allows user terminals having different capabilities such as palmpilots cellular telephones or different types of personal computers PC s for example to receive the same image content in different resolutions and or different modalities.

As described above a preferred embodiment of the image description system of the present invention is used with the MPEG 7 standard. In accord with this standard this preferred embodiment uses objects as the fundamental entity in describing various levels of image content which can be defined along different dimensions. For example objects can be used to describe image regions or groups of image regions. High level objects can in turn be used to describe groups of primitive objects based on semantics or visual features. In addition different types of features can be used in connection with different levels of objects. For instance visual features can be applied to objects corresponding to physical components in the image content whereas semantic features can be applied to any level of object.

In addition the image description system of the present invention provides flexibility extensibility scalability and convenience of use. In the interest of enhanced flexibility the present invention allows portions of the image description system to be instantiated uses efficient categorization of features and clustering of objects by way of an clustering hierarchy and also supports efficient linking embedding and downloading of external feature descriptors and execution code. The present invention also provides extensibility by permitting elements defined in the description scheme to be used to derive new elements for different domains. Scalability is provided by the present invention s capability to define multiple abstraction levels based on any arbitrary set of criteria using object hierarchies. These criteria can be specified in terms of visual features size and color for example semantic relevance relevance to user interest profile for example and or service quality media features for example . The present invention is convenient to use because it specifies a minimal set of components namely objects feature classes object hierarchies and entity relation graphs. Additional objects and features can be added in a modular and flexible way. In addition different types of object hierarchies and entity relation graphs can each be defined in a similar fashion.

Under the image description system of the present invention an image is represented as a set of image objects which are related to one another by object hierarchies and entity relation graphs. These objects can have multiple features which can be linked to external extraction and similarity matching code. These features are categorized into media visual and semantic features for example. Image objects can be organized in multiple different object hierarchies. Non hierarchical relationships among two or more objects can be described using one or more different entity relation graphs. For objects contained in large images multiple levels of abstraction in clustering and viewing such objects can be implemented using object hierarchies. These multiple levels of abstraction in clustering and viewing such images can be based on media visual and or semantic features for example. One example of a media feature includes modality transcoding which permits users having different terminal specifications to access the same image content in satisfactory modalities and resolutions.

The characteristics and operation of the image description system of the present invention will now be presented in additional detail. B and C depict an exemplary description of an exemplary image in accordance with the image description system of the present invention. depicts an exemplary set of image objects and exemplary corresponding object features for those objects. More specifically depicts image object i.e. O Person A O Person B and O People contained in O i.e. the overall exemplary photograph as well as exemplary features for the exemplary photograph depicted. depicts an exemplary spatial object hierarchy for the image objects depicted in wherein O the overall photograph is shown to contain O Person A and O Person B . depicts an exemplary entity relation E R graph for the image objects depicted in wherein O Person A is characterized as being located to the left of and shaking hands with O Person B .

In the following discussion the text appearing between the characters denotes the characterization of the referenced elements in the XML preferred embodiments which appear below. In the image description system of the present invention as depicted in an image element which represents an image description includes an image object set element and may also include one or more object hierarchy elements and one or more entity relation graphs . Each image object set element includes one or more image object elements . Each image object element may include one or more features such as media feature elements visual feature elements and or semantic feature elements . Each object hierarchy element contains an object node element each of which may in turn contain one or more additional object node elements . Each entity relation graph contains one or more entity relation elements . Each entity relation element in turn contains a relation element and may also contain one or more entity node elements .

An object hierarchy element is a special case of an entity relation graph wherein the entities are related by containment relationships. The preferred embodiment of the image description system of the present invention includes object hierarchy elements in addition to entity relationship graphs because an object hierarchy element is a more efficient structure for retrieval than is an entity relationship graph . In addition an object hierarchy element is the most natural way of defining composite objects and MPEG 4 objects are constructed using hierarchical structures.

To maximize flexibility and generality the image description system of the present invention separates the definition of the objects from the structures that describe relationships among the objects. Thus the same object may appear in different object hierarchies and entity relation graphs . This avoids the undesirable duplication of features for objects that appear in more than one object hierarchy and or entity relation graph . In addition an object can be defined without the need for it to be included in any relational structure such as an object hierarchy or entity relation graph so that the extraction of objects and relations among objects can be performed at different stages thereby permitting distributed processing of the image content.

Referring to B C and an image object refers to one or more arbitrary regions of an image and therefore can be either continuous or discontinuous in space. In B and C O Person A O Person B and O i.e. the photograph are objects with only one associated continuous region. On the other hand O People is an example of an object composed of multiple regions separated from one another in space. A global object contains features that are common to an entire image whereas a local object contains only features of a particular section of that image. Thus in B and C O is a global object representing the entire image depicted whereas O O and O are each local objects representing a person or persons contained within the overall image.

Various types of objects which can be used in connection with the present invention include visual objects which are objects defined by visual features such as color or texture media objects semantic objects and objects defined by a combination of semantic visual and media features. Thus an object s type is determined by the features used to describe that object. As a result new types of objects can be added as necessary. In addition different types of objects may be derived from these generic objects by utilizing inheritance relationships which are supported by the MPEG 7 standard.

As depicted in the set of all image object elements described in an image is contained within the image object set element . Each image object element can have a unique identifier within an image description. The identifier and the object type e.g. local or global are expressed as attributes of the object element ID and type respectively. An exemplary implementation of an exemplary set of objects to describe the image depicted in B and C is shown below listed in XML. In all XML listings shown below the text appearing between the characters denotes comments to the XML code 

As depicted in image objects may for example contain three feature class elements that group features together according to the information conveyed by those features. Examples of such feature class elements include media features visual features and semantic features . Table 1 below denotes an exemplary list of features for each of these feature classes.

Each feature element contained in the feature classes in an image object element will include descriptors in accordance with the MPEG 7 standard. Table 2 below denotes exemplary descriptors that may be associated with certain of the exemplary visual features denoted in Table 1. Specific descriptors such as those denoted in Table 2 may also contain links to external extraction and similarity matching code. Although Tables 1 and 2 denote exemplary features and descriptors the image description system of the present invention may include in an extensible and modular fashion any number of features and descriptors for each object.

The XML example shown below denotes an example of how features and descriptors can be defined to be included in an image object . In particular the below example defines the exemplary features associated with the global object O depicted in B and C namely two semantic features where and when one media feature file format and one visual feature color with a color histogram descriptor . An object can be described by different concepts in each of the semantic categories as shown in the example below.

As depicted in in the image description system of the present invention the object hierarchy element can be used to organize the image objects in the image object set based on different criteria such as media features visual features semantic features or any combinations thereof. Each object hierarchy element constitutes a tree of object nodes which reference image object elements in the image object set via link .

An object hierarchy involves a containment relation from one or more child nodes to a parent node. This containment relation may be of numerous different types depending on the particular object features being utilized such as media features visual features and or semantic features for example. For example the spatial object hierarchy depicted in describes a visual containment because it is created in connection with a visual feature namely spatial position. depict two additional exemplary object hierarchies. Specifically depicts an exemplary hierarchy for the image objects depicted in based on the who semantic feature as denoted in Table 1. Thus in O People is shown to contain O Person A and O Person B . depicts an exemplary hierarchy based on exemplary color and shape visual features such as those denoted in Table 1. In O could for example be defined to be the corresponding region of an object satisfying certain specified color and shape constraints. Thus depicts O Skin Tone Shape as containing O Face Region and O Face Region . Object hierarchies combining different features can also be constructed to satisfy the requirements of a broad range of application systems.

As further depicted in each object hierarchy element contains a tree of object nodes ONs . The object hierarchies also may include optional string attribute types. If such string attribute types are present a thesaurus can provide the values of these string attribute types so that applications can determine the types of hierarchies which exist. Every object node references an image object in the image object set via link . Image objects also can reference back to the object nodes referencing them via link . This bi directional linking mechanism permits efficient transversal from image objects in the image object set to the corresponding object nodes in the object hierarchy and vice versa. Each object node references an image object through an attribute object ref by using a unique identifier of the image object. Each object node may also contain a unique identifier in the form of an attribute. These unique identifiers for the object nodes enable the objects to reference back to the object nodes which reference them using another attribute object node ref . An exemplary XML implementation of the exemplary spatial object hierarchy depicted in is expressed below.

Object hierarchies can also be used to build clustering hierarchies and to generate multiple levels of abstraction. In describing relatively large images such as satellite photograph images for example a problem normally arises in describing and retrieving in an efficient and scalable manner the many objects normally contained in such images. Clustering hierarchies can be used in connection with the image description system of the present invention to provide a solution to this problem.

Although depict an example of a single clustering hierarchy based on only a single set of criteria namely size multiple clustering hierarchies using different criteria involving multiple features may also be used for any image. For example such clustering hierarchies may group together objects based on any combination of media visual and or semantic features. This procedure is similar to the procedure used to cluster images together in visual information retrieval engines. Each object contained within the overall large image is assigned an image object in the object set and may also be assigned certain associated features such as media features visual features or semantic features . The intermediate nodes of the object hierarchy are represented as image objects and also include the criteria conditions and constraints related to one or more features used for grouping the objects together at that particular level. An image description may include any number of clustering hierarchies. The exemplary clustering hierarchy depicted in is expressed in an exemplary XML implementation below.

As depicted in the multiple clustering hierarchy example of and as denoted in Table 3 below there are defined three levels of abstraction based on the size of the objects depicted. This multi level abstraction scheme provides a scalable method for retrieving and viewing objects in the image depicted in . Such an approach can also be used to represent multiple abstraction levels based on other features such as various semantic classes for example.

Although such hierarchical structures are suitable for purposes of retrieving images certain relationships among objects cannot adequately be expressed using such structures. Thus as depicted in the image description system of the present invention also utilizes entity relation E R graphs for the specification of more complex relationships among objects. An entity relation graph is a graph of one or more entity nodes and the relationships among them. Table 4 below denotes several different exemplary types of such relationships as well as specific examples of each.

Entity relation graphs can be of any general structure and can also be customized for any particular application by utilizing various inheritance relationships. The exemplary entity relation graph depicted in describes an exemplary spatial relationship namely Left Of and an exemplary semantic relationship namely Shaking Hands With between objects O and O depicted in .

As depicted in the image description system of the present invention allows for the specification of zero or more entity relation graphs . An entity relation graph includes one or more sets of entity relation elements and also contains two optional attributes namely a unique identifier ID and a string type to describe the binding expressed by the entity relation graph . Values for such types could for example be provided by a thesaurus. Each entity relation element contains one relation element and may also contain one or more entity node elements and one or more entity relation elements . The relation element contains the specific relationship being described. Each entity node element references an image object in the image object set via link by utilizing an attribute namely object ref. Via link image objects also can reference back to the entity nodes referencing the image objects by utilizing an attribute event code refs .

As depicted in the exemplary entity relation graph of the entity relation graph contains two entity relations between object O Person A and object O Person B . The first such entity relation describes the spatial relation regarding how object O is positioned with respect to i.e. to the Left Of object O . The second such entity relation depicted in describes the semantic relation of how object O is Shaking Hand With object O . An exemplary XML implementation of the entity relation graph example depicted in is shown below 

For purposes of efficiency entity relation elements may also include one or more other entity relation elements as depicted in . This allows the creation of efficient nested graphs of entity relationships such as those utilized in the Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL which synchronizes different media documents by using a series of nested parallel sequential relationships.

An object hierarchy is a particular type of entity relation graph and therefore can be implemented using an entity relation graph wherein entities are related by containment relationships. Containment relationships are topological relationships such as those denoted in Table 4. To illustrate that an object hierarchy is a particular type of an entity relation graph the exemplary object hierarchy depicted in is expressed below in XML as an entity relation graph .

The exemplary hierarchy depicted in describes how object O the overall photograph spatially contains objects O Person A and O Person B . Thus based on particular requirements applications may implement hierarchies utilizing either the convenience of the comprehensive structure of an entity relation graph or alternatively by utilizing the efficiency of object hierarchies .

For image descriptors associated with any type of features such as media features visual features or semantic features for example the image description system of the present invention may also contain links to extraction and similarity matching code in order to facilitate code downloading as illustrated in the XML example below. These links provide a mechanism for efficient searching and filtering of image content from different sources using proprietary descriptors. Each image descriptor in the image description system of the present invention may include a descriptor value and a code element which contain information regarding the extraction and similarity matching code for that particular descriptor. The code elements may also include pointers to the executable files as well as the description of the input parameters and output parameters for executing the code. Information about the type of code namely extraction code or similarity matching code the code language such as Java or C for example and the code version are defined as particular attributes of the code element.

The exemplary XML implementation set forth below provides a description of a so called Tamura texture feature as set forth in H. Tamura S. Mori and T. Yamawaki Textual Features Corresponding to Visual Perception IEEE Transactions on Systems Man and Cybernetics Vol. 8 No. 6 June 1978 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. The Tamura texture feature provides the specific feature values namely coarseness contrast and directionality and also links to external code for feature extraction and similarity matching. In the feature extraction example shown below additional information about input and output parameters is also provided. Such a description could for example be generated by a search engine in response to a texture query from a meta search engine. The meta search engine could then use the code to extract the same feature descriptor from the results received from other search engines in order to generate a homogeneous list of results for a user. In other cases only the extraction and similarity matching code but not the specific feature values is included. If necessary in such instances filtering agents may be used to extract feature values for processing.

The exemplary XML implementation shown below also illustrates the way in which the XML language enables externally defined description schemes for descriptors to be imported and combined into the image description system of the present invention. In the below example an external descriptor for the Croma Key shape feature is imported into the image description by using XML namespaces. Using this framework new features types of features and image descriptors can be conveniently included in an extensible and modular way.

The image description system of the present invention also supports modality transcoding. In an exemplary instance in which a content broadcaster must transmit image content to a variety of users the broadcaster must transcode the image content into different media modalities and resolutions in order to accommodate the users various terminal requirements and bandwidth limitations. The image description system of the present invention provides modality transcoding in connection with both local and global objects. This modality transcoding transcodes the media modality resolution and location of transcoded versions of the image objects in question or alternatively links to external transcoding code. The image descriptor in question also can point to code for transcoding an image object into different modalities and resolutions in order to satisfy the requirements of different user terminals. The exemplary XML implementation shown below illustrates providing an audio transcoded version for an image object.

In a preferred embodiment image object extraction consists of two subsidiary operations namely image segmentation as depicted by block and feature extraction and annotation as depicted by block . For the image segmentation step any region tracking technique which partitions digital images into regions that share one or more common characteristics may be employed. Likewise for the feature extraction and annotation step any technique which generates features from segmented regions may be employed. A region based clustering and searching subsystem is suitable for automated image segmentation and feature extraction. An image object segmentation system is an example of a semi automated image segmentation and feature extraction system. Manual segmentation and feature extraction could alternatively be employed. In an exemplary system image segmentation may for example generate image objects and feature extraction and annotation may for example generate the features associated with the image objects such as media features visual features and semantic features for example.

The object extraction processing generates an image object set which contains one or more image objects . The image objects of the image object set may then be provided via links and for further processing in the form of object hierarchy construction and extraction processing as depicted in block and or entity relation graph generation processing as depicted in block . Preferably object hierarchy construction and extraction and entity relation graph generation take place in parallel and via link . Alternatively image objects of the image object set may be directed to bypass object hierarchy construction and extraction and entity relation graph generation via link . The object hierarchy construction and extraction thus generates one or more object hierarchies and the entity relation graph generation thus generates one or more entity relation graphs .

The processor section then merges the image object set object hierarchies and entity relation graphs into an image description record for the image content in question. The image description record may then be stored directly in database storage or alternatively may first be subjected to compression by binary encoder via links and or to encoding by description definition language encoding using XML for example by XML encoder via links and . Once the image description records have been stored in data base storage they remain available in a useful format for access and use by other applications such as search filter and archiving applications for example via bidirectional link .

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of a client server computer system on which the image description system of the present invention can be implemented is provided. The architecture of the system includes a client computer and a server computer . The server computer includes a display interface a query dispatcher a performance database query translators target search engines and multimedia content description systems which will be described in further detail below.

While the following disclosure will make reference to this exemplary client server embodiment those skilled in the art should understand that the particular system arrangement may be modified within the scope of the invention to include numerous well known local or distributed architectures. For example all functionality of the client server system could be included within a single computer or a plurality of server computers could be utilized with shared or separated functionality.

Commercially available metasearch engines act as gateways linking users automatically and transparently to multiple text based search engines. The system of grows upon the architecture of such metasearch engines and is designed to intelligently select and interface with multiple on line multimedia search engines by ranking their performance for different classes of user queries. Accordingly the query dispatcher query translators and display interface of commercially available metasearch engines may be employed in the present invention.

The dispatcher selects the target search engines to be queried by consulting the performance database upon receiving a user query. This database contains performance scores of past query successes and failures for each supported search option. The query dispatcher only selects search engines that are able to satisfy the user s query e.g. a query seeking color information will trigger color enabled search engines. Search engines may for example be arranged in a client server relationship such as search engine and associated client .

The query translators translate the user query to suitable scripts conforming to the interfaces of the selected search engines. The display component uses the performance scores to merge the results from each search engine and presents them to the user.

In accordance with the present invention in order to permit a user to intelligently search the Internet or a regional or local network for visual content search queries may be made either by descriptions of multimedia content generated by the present invention or by example or sketch. Each search engine employs a description scheme for example the description schemes described below to describe the contents of multimedia information accessible by the search engine and to implement the search.

In order to implement a content based search query for multimedia information the dispatcher will match the query description through the multimedia content description system employed by each search engine to ensure the satisfaction of the user preferences in the query. It will then select the target search engines to be queried by consulting the performance database . If for example the user wants to search by color and one search engine does not support any color descriptors it will not be useful to query that particular search engine.

Next the query translators will adapt the query description to descriptions conforming to each selected search engine. This translation will also be based on the description schemes available from each search engine. This task may require executing extraction code for standard descriptors or downloaded extraction code from specific search engines to transform descriptors. For example if the user specifies the color feature of an object using a color coherence of 166 bins the query translator will translate it to the specific color descriptors used by each search engine e.g. color coherence and color histogram of x bins.

Before displaying the results to the user the query interface will merge the results from each search option by translating all the result descriptions into a homogeneous one for comparison and ranking. Again similarity code for standard descriptors or downloaded similarity code from search engines may need to be executed. User preferences will determine how the results are displayed to the user.

Referring next to a description system which in accordance with the present invention is employed by each search engine is now described. In the preferred embodiment disclosed herein XML is used to describe multimedia content.

The description system advantageously includes several multimedia processing analysis and annotation sub systems to generate a rich variety of descriptions for a collection of multimedia items . Each subsystem is described in turn.

The first subsystem is a region based clustering and searching system which extracts visual features such as color texture motion shape and size for automatically segmented regions of a video sequence. The system decomposes video into separate shots by scene change detection which may be either abrupt or transitional e.g. dissolve fade in out wipe . For each shot the system estimates both global motion i.e. the motion of dominant background and camera motion and then segments detects and tracks regions across the frames in the shot computing different visual features for each region. For each shot the description generated by this system is a set of regions with visual and motion features and the camera motion. A complete description of the region based clustering and searching system is contained in co pending PCT Application Serial No. PCT US98 09124 filed May 5 1998 entitled An Algorithm and System. Architecture for Object Oriented Content Based Video Search the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

As used herein a video clip shall refer to a sequence of frames of video information having one or more video objects having identifiable attributes such as by way of example and not of limitation a baseball player swinging a bat a surfboard moving across the ocean or a horse running across a prairie. A video object is a contiguous set of pixels that is homogeneous in one or more features of interest e.g. texture color motion or shape. Thus a video object is formed by one or more video regions which exhibit consistency in at least one feature. For example a shot of a person the person is the object here walking would be segmented into a collection of adjoining regions differing in criteria such as shape color and texture but all the regions may exhibit consistency in their motion attribute.

The second subsystem is an MPEG domain face detection system which efficiently and automatically detects faces directly in the MPEG compressed domain. The human face is an important subject in images and video. It is ubiquitous in news documentaries movies etc. providing key information to the viewer for the understanding of the video content. This system provides a set of regions with face labels. A complete description of the system is contained in PCT Application Serial No. PCT US 97 20024 filed Nov. 4 1997 entitled A Highly Efficient System for Automatic Face Region Detection in MPEG Video the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The third subsystem is a video object segmentation system in which automatic segmentation is integrated with user input to track semantic objects in video sequences. For general video sources the system allows users to define an approximate object boundary by using a tracing interface. Given the approximate object boundary the system automatically refines the boundary and tracks the movement of the object in subsequent frames of the video. The system is robust enough to handle many real world situations that are difficult to model using existing approaches including complex objects fast and intermittent motion complicated backgrounds multiple moving objects and partial occlusion. The description generated by this system is a set of semantic objects with the associated regions and features that can be manually annotated with text. A complete description of the system 230 is contained in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 405 555 filed Sep. 24 1998 entitled An Active System and Algorithm for Semantic Video Object Segmentation the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The fourth subsystem is a hierarchical video browsing system that parses compressed MPEG video streams to extract shot boundaries moving objects object features and camera motion. It also generates a hierarchical shot based browsing interface for intuitive visualization and editing of videos. A complete description of the system is contained in PCT Application Serial No. PCT US 97 08266 filed May 16 1997 entitled Efficient Query and Indexing Methods for Joint Spatial Feature Based Image Search the contents of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The fifth subsystem is the entry of manual text annotations. It is often desirable to integrate visual features and textual features for scene classification. For images from on line news sources e.g. Clarinet there is often textual information in the form of captions or articles associated with each image. This textual information can be included in the descriptions.

The sixth subsystem is a system for high level semantic classification of images and video shots based on low level visual features. The core of the system consists of various machine learning techniques such as rule induction clustering and nearest neighbor classification. The system is being used to classify images and video scenes into high level semantic scene classes such as nature landscape city suburb indoor and outdoor. The system focuses on machine learning techniques because we have found that the fixed set of rules that might work well with one corpus may not work well with another corpus even for the same set of semantic scene classes. Since the core of the system is based on machine learning techniques the system can be adapted to achieve high performance for different corpora by training the system with examples from each corpus. The description generated by this system is a set of text annotations to indicate the scene class for each image or each keyframe associated with the shots of a video sequence. A complete description of the system is contained in S. Paek et al. Integration of Visual and Text based Approaches for the Content Labeling and Classification of Photographs ACM SIGIR 99 Workshop on Multimedia Indexing and Retrieval. Berkeley C A 1999 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The seventh subsystem is model based image classification system. Many automatic image classification systems are based on a pre defined set of classes in which class specific algorithms are used to perform classification. The system allows users to define their own classes and provide examples that are used to automatically learn visual models. The visual models are based on automatically segmented regions their associated visual features and their spatial relationships. For example the user may build a visual model of a portrait in which one person wearing a blue suit is seated on a brown sofa and a second person is standing to the right of the seated person. The system uses a combination of lazy learning decision trees and evolution programs during classification. The description generated by this system is a set of text annotations i.e. the user defined classes for each image. A complete description of the system is contained in PCT Application Serial No. PCT US 97 08266 filed May 16 1997 entitled A Method and Architecture for Indexing and Editing Compressed Video Over the World Wide Web the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Other subsystems may be added to the multimedia content description system such as a subsystems from collaborators used to generate descriptions or parts of descriptions for example.

In operation the image and video content may be a database of still images or moving video a buffer receiving content from a browser interface or a receptacle for live image or video transmission. The subsystems operate on the image and video content to generate descriptions that include low level visual features of automatically segmented regions user defined semantic objects high level scene properties classifications and associated textual information as described above. Once all the descriptions for an image or video item are generated and integrated in block the descriptions are then input into a database which the search engine accesses.

It should be noted that certain of the subsystems i.e. the region based clustering and searching subsystem and the video object segmentation system may implement the entire description generation process while the remaining subsystems implement only portions of the process and may be called on by the subsystems during processing. In a similar manner the subsystems and may be called on by each other for specific tasks in the process.

In systems and methods for describing image content are described. These techniques are readily extensible to video content as well. The performance of systems for searching and processing video content information can benefit from the creation and adoption of a standard by which such video content can be thoroughly and efficiently described. As used herein the term video clip refers to an arbitrary duration of video content such as a sequence of frames of video information. The term description scheme refers to the data structure or organization used to describe the video content. The term description record refers to the description scheme wherein the data fields of the data structure are defined by data which describes the content of a particular video clip.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the present video description scheme DS is illustrated in schematic form. The video DS inherits all of the elements of the image description scheme and adds temporal elements thereto which are particular to video content. Thus a video element which represents a video description generally includes a video object set an object hierarchy definition and entity relation graphs all of which are similar to those described in connection with . An exemplary video DS definition is illustrated below in Table 5.

A basic element of the present video description scheme DS is the video object . A video object refers to one or more arbitrary regions in one or more frames of a video clip. For example and not by way of limitation a video object may be defined as local objects segment objects and global objects. Local objects refer to a group of pixels found in one or more frames. Segment objects refer to one or more related frames of the video clip. Global objects refer to the entire video clip.

A video object is an element of the video object set and can be related to other objects in the object set by the object hierarchy and entity relation graphs in the same manner as described in connection with . Again the fundamental difference between the video description scheme and the previously described image description scheme resides in the inclusion of temporal parameters which will further define the video objects and their interrelation in the description scheme.

In using XML to implement the present video description scheme to indicate if a video object has associated semantic information the video object can include a semantic attribute which can take on an indicative value such as true or false. To indicate if the object has associated physical information such as color shape time motion and position the object can include an optional physical attribute that can take on an indicative value such as true or false. To indicate whether regions of an object are spatially adjacent to one another continuous in space the object can include an optional spaceContinuous attribute that can assume a value such as true or false. To indicate if the video frames which contain a particular object are temporally adjacent to one another continuous in time the object can further include an optional timeContinuous attribute. This attribute can assume an indicative value such as true or false. To distinguish if the object refers to a region within select frames of a video to entire frames of the video or to the entire video commonly e.g. shots scenes stories the object will generally include an attribute type that can have multiple indicative values such as LOCAL SEGMENT and GLOBAL respectively.

The video objects can be further characterized in terms of object features. Although any number and type of features can be defined to characterize the video objects in a modular and extensible manner a useful exemplary feature set can include semantic features visual features media features and temporal features . Each feature can then be further defined by feature parameters or descriptors. Such descriptors will generally follow that described in connection with the image description scheme with the addition of requisite temporal information. For example visual features can include a set of descriptors such as shape color texture and position as well as motion parameters. Temporal features will generally include such descriptors as start time end time and duration. Table 6 shows examples of descriptors in addition to those set forth in connection with the image description scheme that can belong to each of these exemplary classes of features 

In summary in a fashion analogous to the previously described image description scheme the present video description scheme includes a video object set an object hierarchy and entity relation graphs . Video objects are further defined by features. The objects within the object set can be related hierarchically by one or more object hierarchy nodes and references . Relations between objects can also be expressed in entity relation graphs which further include entity relations entity nodes references and relations all of which substantially correspond in the manner described in connection with . Each video object preferably includes features that can link to external extraction and similarity matching code.

The result of object extraction processing is the generation of an object set which contains one or more video objects and associated object features . The video objects of the object set are subjected to further processing in the form of object hierarchy construction and extraction processing and entity relation graph generation processing . Preferably these processing operations take place in a parallel fashion. The output result from object hierarchy construction and extraction processing is an object hierarchy . The output result of entity relation graph generation processing is one or more entity relation graphs . The processor section combines the object set object hierarchy and entity relation graphs into a description record in accordance with the present video description scheme for the applied video content. The description record can be stored in database storage subjected to low level encoding such as binary coding or subjected to description language encoding e.g. XML . Once the description records are stored in the read write storage in the form of a database the data is available in a useful format for use by other applications such as search filter archiving applications and the like.

This section discusses one embodiment wherein XML has been used to implement a document type definition DTD of the present video description scheme. Table 1 set forth above summarizes the DTD of the present video DS. Appendix A includes the full listing of the DTD of the video DS. In general a Document Type Definition DTD provides a list of the elements tags attributes and entities contained in the document and their relationships to each other. In other words DTDs specify a set of rules for the structure of a document. DTDs may be included in a computer data file that contains the document they describe or they may be linked to or from an external universal resource location URL . Such external DTDs can be shared by different documents and Web sites. A DTD is generally included in a document s prolog after the XML declaration and before the actual document data begins.

Every tag used in a valid XML document must be declared exactly once in the DTD with an element type declaration. The first element in a DTD is the root tag. In our video DS the root tag can be designated as tag. An element type declaration specifies the name of a tag the allowed children of the tag and whether the tag is empty. The root tag can be defined as follows 

 where the asterisk indicates zero or more occurrences. In XML syntax the plus sign indicates one or more occurrences and the question mark indicates zero or one occurrence.

In XML all element type declarations start with . They include the name of the tag being declared video and the allowed contents video object set object hierarchy entity relation graph . This declaration indicates that a video element must contain a video object set element zero or more object hierarchy elements and zero or more entity relation graph elements .

In the above example the first declaration indicates that a video object set element contains one or more video objects . The second declaration indicates that a video object contains an optional video object media feature semantic feature visual feature and temporal feature elements. In addition the video object tag is defined as having one required attribute type that can only have three possible values LOCAL SEGMENT GLOBAL and three optional attributes id object ref and object node ref of type ID IDREFS and IDREFS respectively.

Some XML tags include attributes. Attributes are intended for extra information associated with an element like an ID . The last four declarations in the example shown above corresponds to the video object media feature semantic feature visual feature and temporal feature elements. These elements group feature elements depending on the information they provide. For example the media features element contains an optional location file format file size resolution modality transcoding and bit rate element to define the descriptors of the media features . The semantic feature element contains an optional text annotation and the 6 W elements corresponding to the semantic feature descriptors . The visual feature element contains optional image scl color texture shape size position video scl visual sprite transition camera motion elements and multiple key frame elements for the visual feature descriptors. The temporal features element contains an optional time element as the temporal feature descriptor.

In the exemplary DTD listed in Appendix A for the sake of clarity and flexibility feature elements are declared in external DTDs using entities. The following description sets forth a preferred method of referencing a separate external DTD for each one of these elements.

In the simplest case DTDs include all the tags used in a document. This technique becomes unwieldy with longer documents. Furthermore it may be desirable to use different parts of a DTD in many different places. External DTDs enable large DTDs to be built from smaller ones. That is one DTD may link to another and in so doing pull in the elements and entities declared in the first. Smaller DTD s are easier to analyze. DTDs are connected with external parameter references as illustrated in the example following 

The object hierarchy can be defined in the image DTD. The following example provides an overview of a declaration for the present object hierarchy element.

The object hierarchy element preferably contains a single root object node element . An object node element generally contains zero or more object node elements. Each object node element can have an associated unique identifier id. The identifier is expressed as an optional attribute of the elements of type ID e.g. . Each object node element can also include a reference to a video object element by using the unique identifier associated with each video object. The reference to the video object element is given as an attribute of type IDREF object ref . Object elements can link back to those object node elements pointing at them by using an attribute of type IDREFS object node ref .

The entity relation graph definition is very similar to the object hierarchy s one. An example is listed below.

The declaration of the entity node element can contain either one or another element by separating the child elements with a vertical bar rather than a comma.

The description above sets forth a data structure of a video description scheme as well as systems and methods of characterizing video content in accordance with the present video description scheme. Of course the present video description scheme can be used advantageously in connection with the systems described in connection with .

Although the present invention has been described in connection with specific exemplary embodiments it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

