---

title: High-strength nanostructured alloys
abstract: Biphasic alloys, formed through a spinodal decomposition process, are disclosed. The alloys have improved strength and hardness, over single phase alloys, due to coherency strain between the phases. They are prepared from readily available transition metals, and they can be used to make large, high-strength parts, for example, of types that cannot be made by extrusion, forging or cold working techniques.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07815850&OS=07815850&RS=07815850
owner: The Trustees of Dartmouth College
number: 07815850
owner_city: Hanover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060907
---
This application is a continuation in part of PCT US05 007688 filed Mar. 9 2005 which claimed priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 796 675 filed Mar. 9 2004 now abandoned each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The United States Government has rights in this invention under Contract Nos. NIST 60NANB2DD12D and NSF DMR0314209 between the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST the National Science Foundation NSF and Dartmouth College.

This invention generally relates to novel alloys and methods of producing the alloys. More specifically the alloys are high strength nanostructured alloys.

Basic research in the field of alloy materials seeks to find improved materials such as those that are lighter stronger or less expensive to produce than conventional alloys. In other contexts improved materials may have increased resistance to weather chemicals or friction in an intended environment of use. Equipment that incorporates these new materials in component parts may have a longer service life require less maintenance or achieve an improved performance level. From a cost of manufacture standpoint it is desirable for these new materials to be made from readily available and highly affordable natural resources.

One technique that may be used to produce an alloy with enhanced strength is spinodal decomposition. Spinodal decomposition processes are described for example in Ramanarayan and Abinandan Bltn. Matter. Sci. Vol. 26 No. 1 189 192 January 2003 and the transition phase kinetics of spinodal decomposition are described in Mainville et al. Phys. Review Lett. Vol. 78 No. 14 2787 2790 1977 . The Toughmet Cu Ni Sn alloys that are commercially available from Brush Wellman of Lorain Ohio are one example of spinodal alloys used for structural applications.

Spinodal Fe Ni Al Alnico systems were studied by S. M. Hao K. Ishida T. Nishizawa Role of Alloying Elements in Phase Decomposition in Alnico Magnet Alloys Metall. Trans. A 16 2 Feb. 1985 179 185. To a base Fe Ni Al system a small amount less than 5 at. of Cu Ti Mn V Cr Si Mo or Nb was added. The microstructure miscibility gap characteristics and magnetic properties of the resulting materials were determined. The authors concluded that the elements Mn Nb Cr Mo Si and V were estimated to be of little use in Alnico alloys p. 183 col. 2 .

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0124913 discloses another Alnico compound Fe Cr Ni Al that resists oxidation and exhibits high strength. The alloy consists essentially of by mass 0.003 to 0.08 C 0.03 to 2.0 Si not more than 2.0 Mn from 1.0 to 8.0 Ni from 10.0 to 19.0 Cr 1.5 to 8.0 Al 0.05 to 1.0 Zr and the balance Fe. Under certain conditions an intermetallic composition e.g. Ni Al precipitates in the ferrite matrix as a non spinodal second phase.

To date very few spinodal Alnico systems are known and the presence of Mn in those that are known is considered detrimental to the properties of the final product.

Alloys of the present disclosure address the problems outlined above and advance the art by providing alloys with exceptional strength or hardness over a wide temperature range.

In one embodiment an intermetallic composition formed by spinodal decomposition in at least two distinct structural phases has an average composition comprising from 9 to 41 iron 9 to 41 nickel 9 to 41 manganese and 9 to 41 aluminum wherein the composition is described in terms of atomic percentages.

In one embodiment an intermetallic composition formed by spinodal decomposition in at least two distinct structural phases has an average composition according to the formula FeNiMnAlM wherein in atomic percent a ranges from 9 to 41 b ranges from 9 to 41 c ranges from 9 to 41 d ranges from 9 to 41 e ranges from 0 to 5 and M is selected i from the group consisting of V Cr Co Mo Ru and combinations thereof or ii from the group consisting of C B Ti and combinations thereof.

In one embodiment a method of producing an intermetallic composition includes heating a mixture of metals to create a homogenous solution according to the formula FeNiMnAlM wherein in atomic percent a ranges from 9 to 41 b ranges from 9 to 41 c ranges from 9 to 41 d ranges from 9 to 41 e ranges from 0 to 5 and M is selected i from the group consisting of V Cr Co Mo Ru and combinations thereof or ii from the group consisting of C B Ti and combinations thereof cooling the homogenous solution to obtain a homogeneous solid rapidly quenching the solid to room temperature reheating the solid to within a spinodal temperature region and holding the spinodal temperature for a period of time.

The following definitions are provided to facilitate understanding of certain terms used frequently herein and are not meant to limit the scope of the present disclosure The terms alloy intermetallic compound and intermetallic compositions are interchangeable. They refer to compounds containing at least two elements selected from metals and or metalloids. Ordered refers to a uniform arrangement of atoms within a chemical structure.

The alloys disclosed herein may be incorporated into machine and industrial parts and may be used to make large high strength parts that cannot be made by extrusion forging or cold working techniques. Additionally the alloys may be suitable for applications requiring high strength wear resistant parts including but not limited to engines bearings bushings stators washers seals rotors fasteners stamping plates dies valves punches automobile parts aircraft parts and drilling and mining parts.

Materials described herein may demonstrate high impact strength fatigue resistance and toughness under harsh conditions. They may also have superior wear and corrosion resistance.

Alloy constituents may include a substantial amount of one or more elements selected from transitional metals and rare earth metals. In particular the alloy contains iron nickel manganese and aluminum to which may be added vanadium chromium cobalt molybdenum and ruthenium. This concept is represented by a macroscopic average formula FeNiMnAlM Formula 1 wherein M is an alloying addition of any element or combination of elements 

In one aspect M may be a metal or combination of metals. For example M may be vanadium chromium cobalt molybdenum ruthenium and combinations thereof. In another aspect M may contain carbon boron and other materials such as where M is selected from carbon boron titanium and combinations thereof. In some embodiments the portion of the alloy that is allocated to M may also range from 0.1 to 4 or in other aspects from 1 to 3 .

Another aspect of the alloy may be a heat treatment process that results in spinodal decomposition leaving at least two intermetallic phases of different structure and stoichiometry. Thus the macroscopic formula above pertains to the overall composition but the macroscopic composition has nanostructure or microstructure of localized phase variances in composition and ordering. Generally growth processes that result in lattice phase separations may derive from two mechanisms nucleation or spinodal. In nucleation nuclei form and lattice growth occurs on the individual nuclei. An energy barrier must be met to drive the growth. The lattice phases are well defined such that a lattice structure arises from a matrix which may be amorphous. Another mechanism that of spinodal decomposition is a spontaneous clustering reaction that may occur in a homogeneous supersaturated solution which may be a solid or liquid solution. The solution is unstable against infinitesimal fluctuations in density or composition and so thermodynamics favor separation into two phases of differing composition and interconnected morphology. Lattice phase boundaries are diffuse and gradually become sharp. Spinodal decomposition of an alloy is possible when different metal atoms are of similar size thus avoiding large scale diffusion which results in precipitation. The presence of two phases gives rise to large composition variations which cause coherency strains that strengthen the alloy.

As is known in the art spinodal decomposition is a continuous diffusion process in which there is no nucleation step. A plurality of chemically different phases result from a migration of atoms without the formation of precipitates. is a phase diagram showing one spinodal decomposition process that varies as a function of temperature T and intermetallic composition X. A homogenous composition or phase exists at temperatures above T. An immiscibility dome contains a spinodal decomposition region that is flanked by nucleation zones . At temperatures below T phases and exist each associated with an adjacent nucleation zone and these regions of below Tare sometimes referred to as the miscibility gap . The spinodal decomposition region may be regarded as a stable or metastable region that contains both phases and and where atom migration is enabled by a miscibility difference between the phases and . The structure of each phase within spinodal decomposition region is usually continuous throughout the grains and continues up to the grain boundaries. The presence of two phases with corresponding composition variations increases coherency strain thereby strengthening the material.

The alloys disclosed herein may be used under extreme conditions for example elevated temperatures and pressures or highly resistive conditions. Further the alloys disclosed herein can be used in any known application currently utilizing a high strength alloy.

In one aspect alloys disclosed herein may comprise a coating. For example suitable coatings may be selected from polymeric coatings silicon based coatings metal oxide coatings gold platinum silver carbon based coatings adhesives and combinations thereof.

The following examples set forth preferred materials and methods for use in making the disclosed alloys. The examples teach by way of illustration not by limitation and so should not be interpreted as unduly narrow.

A quaternary alloy of FeNiMnAlcomposition was prepared by well known arc melting and casting techniques. A quantity of material including 24 g Fe 17 g Ni 22 g Mn and 10 g Al was placed in a water cooled copper mold and heated until molten using the arc melting technique. Ingots were flipped and melted a minimum of three times under argon to ensure mixing. Quenching was done by allowing the alloy to rapidly cool in the copper mold to a temperature of 30 C. in approximately 10 minutes. In some embodiments a 5 excess of Mn may be added to the starting materials because Mn accounts for the majority of weight loss during casting which results from brittle sharding and evaporation.

The alloy was characterized using analytical techniques that are well known in the art. Chemical composition was determined by energy dispersive spectroscopy EDS . Table 1 reports the composition data for the respective b.c.c. and B2 phases. Structural data was obtained using a Siemens D5000 Diffractometer with a Kevex PSI silicon detector in the range of 10 130 2 using an instrument that was calibrated against an alumina standard purchased from the National Institute of Standards NIST . Transmission electron microscopy TEM was performed on either a JEOL 2000FX or a Philips CM 200 see .

Room temperature hardness of the two phase alloy was determined by taking the average of five measurements from a Leitz Microhardness indentor with a 200 g load. Results are given in Table 2.

Yield strength of the alloy was determined using a MTS 810 mechanical testing system. The two phase alloy was subjected to mechanical testing at temperatures as shown in Table 3 and and the yield strength was obtained. The yield strength at 294 K was determined to be 1570 MPa and 1280 MPa at 673 K. The strength at temperature of the present alloy is higher than or comparable to the best current nickel based superalloys such as IN718 which contain many expensive elements and are difficult to process.

Magnetic studies were performed on 5 25 mg samples using a LakeShore Modle 668 VSM capable of measuring magnetic fields up to 1.4T. is a representative hysteresis plot of the two phase alloy.

The alloys were cast using the aforementioned arc melting technique. Test results confirm that the miscibility gap forms over a large composition range and that mechanical and magnetic properties can be manipulated by composition variations in this range. Table 4 lists the alloys evaluated and resulting magnetic and mechanical properties.

A spinodal phase diagram of the type shown as may be constructed by varying percentages of Fe Ni Mn Al and M as described in context of Formula 1 except the subscripts a b c d and e may be any value. The constituents are processed as described in Examples 1 and 2 to ascertain the presence or absence of spinodal decomposition products hardness and magnetic moment. The preferred metals include combinations of Fe Ni Mn and Al in which case the ranges for X and Y shown in Formula 2 may be any value. When adjusting the respective subscripts a b c. d. e X or Y it is suggested to increase or decrease the individual ranges or combinations of ranges in steps of five percent from the values shown regarding Formula 1 and 2 at least until the resulting alloy does not show evidence of spinodal decomposition. It is also possible to repeat the study substituting Co for Ni in whole or in part to increase the magnetic moment. For alloys that contain four or five constituents it is routine in the art that several hundred castings are needed to fully characterize the spinodal phase diagram.

A plurality of alloy ingots were prepared in an identical manner with respect to what is shown in Example 1. Following the quench each ingot was placed in a oven and subjected to a 550 C. anneal in air. This temperature is within the spinodal temperature region for example as shown in . Duration of the anneal differed for each ingot as shown in Table 5. Following the anneal the ingot was removed from the oven and permitted to cool to room temperature. A hardness test was performed on each ingot at room temperature to assess the effect of anneal upon material harness. The hardness results are shown in Table 5 and .

Yield strength tests were conducted on three samples annealed for 115 h. One sample showed yielding at 2350 MPa in compression with brittle fracture at 2480 MPa while two other samples experienced brittle fracture at 2090 and 2110 MPa without obvious signs of macroyielding.

It is understood for purposes of this disclosure that various changes and modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments that are well within the scope of the invention. Numerous other changes may be made which will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and which are encompassed in the spirit of the invention disclosed herein and as defined in the appended claims.

This specification contains numerous citations to references such as patents patent applications and publications. Each is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

