---

title: System and method for making measurements in customer devices across different network technologies
abstract: In a communication network architecture having multiple technology coverage areas that support different network technologies, a service provider monitors its customer's experience as the customer roams between technology coverage areas. An agent, such as software installed on-board the customer's mobile equipment, measures parameters that are related to the network technology, and communicates the measured parameters to the service provider, over the communication network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07979031&OS=07979031&RS=07979031
owner: Agilent Technologies, Inc.
number: 07979031
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060314
---
The invention relates to the field of telecommunications and particularly to wireless communication networks. Among other areas it has applicability to networks such as GPRS and IDEN and networks according to the IEEE 802.11 standard.

In a typical communications architecture users are coupled for communication with one or more nodes such as base stations servers etc. which in turn are coupled for communication with public communication networks such as the Internet and which support technology coverage areas within the network. Communications between such users pass through their respective base stations and across the public networks. Such users employ mobile equipment such as laptop or other portable computers cellular telephones etc.

A given technology coverage area is characterized in terms of its network technology. Within such network technology there will be provided a respective menu of available services and operating parameters. A service provider supporting a given network technology will have access to a lot of data regarding the services provided to its customers. Much of the data will pertain to the supported network technology. The service provider accesses the data by monitoring the various system infrastructure components at the base stations and elsewhere in the network.

Service providers conventionally have used specialized test equipment and performed drive tests to measure network performance both inside and outside of their network. Service providers conduct surveys of their customers to understand for instance the service level and performance quality provided under other network technologies. Test labs are also set up to simulate the expected environments. However these methods have had the drawback that they cannot directly measure customer experience.

Service providers conventionally have very limited or no visibility into the performance of the network and services being used by their customers. This can be an important drawback for the service providers particularly when they begin to roll out services under new networking technologies. At such times the service providers need information on such performance in order to handle problems and otherwise to be responsive to their customers needs.

This drawback also becomes important as customer equipment gains the capability to roam i.e. to move from place to place into technology coverage areas that support network different technologies offered by the service provider or different technologies from those supported by the service provider. Such other technology coverage areas might employ networking technologies that are different from the service provider s technology or otherwise outside of the service provider s control. Because of the different technology the service provider conventionally has little or no insight as to the level of service the customer is receiving in the other technology coverage area.

For instance a customer of the service provider might use a GPRS mobile phone that is capable of switching between the service provider s GPRS network and an IEEE 802.11x standards based wireless local area network LAN . The customer might want to use his her mobile equipment at a wireless hot spot or at the customer s own home located outside the service provider s technology coverage area. The service provider s inability to obtain information directly reflective of the system s performance as the user experiences it disadvantageously limits the service provider s ability to provide the customer with effective support.

The customer s mobile equipment includes an agent such as a software agent installed on board the mobile equipment that measures parameters related to the performance of the mobile equipment in the communication network architecture. The mobile equipment transmits the measured parameters through the communication network to the service provider.

In one embodiment the agent includes parameter storage for accumulating measurements of the parameters and storing the measurements as the measurements accumulate. In one embodiment the agent further includes i a sensor for sensing the network technology available as the mobile equipment roams and ii sets of parameters suitable for different network technologies including a parameter set from which parameters are selected for measurement based on the sensed available network technology. In one embodiment of a method for measuring parameters accessible by mobile equipment which communicates over a communication network the method comprises sensing the network technology available as the mobile equipment roams the mobile equipment includes sets of parameters suitable for different network technologies and the method further comprises selecting a parameter set from the sets of parameters for measurement based on the sensed available network technology.

The service provider thus has direct access to the performance of the system from the customer s perspective and is able to use that information to improve service to the customer. Service providers can have real time or near real time data available to understand their customer s experience when the customer is roaming on another network technology.

Further features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of preferred embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying exemplary drawings.

For the description of the present invention the following terms shall have the meanings here set forth 

 Base Station means a network node server etc. generally provided and operated by a service provider for facilitating user communication over a communication network.

 Customer means an individual or other party who possesses communication equipment such as a cell phone or laptop computer and who subscribes with a service provider for network communication services. The terms user and mobile user are used interchangeably with customer. 

 Home service provider means with reference to a given customer a service provider with which the customer has a subscription for network communication service.

 Mobile equipment means a piece of equipment owned or possessed by a customer having capability of communicating over the communication network and which the customer can pursuant to the customer s use of the mobile equipment transport the mobile equipment from place to place and use it in those respective places. The terms mobile device and mobile equipment are used interchangeably with mobile equipment. 

 Networking technology means a communication technology standard protocol format etc which a given service provider employs to enable communication over a communication network. Examples of networking technologies include General Packet Radio Service GPRS and Integrated Enhanced Digital Network IDEN .

 Service provider means a party which maintains equipment and means for transmitting and receiving communications over a communication network and which offers subscriptions to customers pursuant to which the customers utilize the service provider s equipment and means for transmitting and receiving to communicate over the communication network.

 Technology Service Area means with reference to a given service provider a geographical or other area over which network communication service is provided by the service provider. Typically communications from customers within the technology service area will be routed through a base station provided and maintained by the given service provider. A given technology service area is characterized in terms of a respective networking technology that the service provider employs and supports. Generally a customer s communication equipment will use communication equipment and software that is consistent with the networking technology employed by its home service provider although the equipment and software may also be able to communicate using other networking technologies.

An example of an environment in which various embodiments of the invention may be practiced is illustrated by the block diagram of . A communication network covers a region such as a geographical region over which first and second service providers provide coverage within respective technology coverage areas and . Service provider server equipment shown as base stations and are provided within the respective technology coverage areas and to facilitate user communications. Thus for instance a customer of the first service provider while located within the first service provider s technology coverage area communicates with the base station for access to the communication network by means of a wireless or other communication link .

For the purpose of describing the invention the first service provider will be referred to as the home service provider as per the definition in the Glossary above. The base stations and are shown schematically but it will be understood that they are implemented differently as appropriate for different service providers who may offer different technology coverage area technologies menus of services available parameters etc.

The customer employs mobile equipment generally shown as mobile equipment . The mobile equipment includes among its various possible embodiments a processor memory and a wireless communication interface. For instance the mobile equipment might include a laptop computer cell phone handheld personal digital assistant unit or wireless sensor. As shown the mobile equipment can move from the technology coverage area to the different technology coverage area . When it does so it will for instance now communicate with the base station again by means of a wireless or other communication link .

The second service provider who offers service within the technology coverage area may well employ communications technology different from that of the first service provider. Accordingly a conventional system which can only perform drive tests will provide a severe under sampling in both time and space of the mobile equipment s performance.

Also such conventional methods did not provide measurements from a customer perspective. That is the measurements available to the service provider were not necessarily accurately reflective of the performance the mobile equipment actually experienced.

In one embodiment of the invention measurements are made at the location where the customer is and at the time when the customer is using the device. The measurements are taken at or on board the mobile equipment . Thus the service provider has clear visibility of their customer s experience as the customer moves across network technologies. As a consequence a much better representation of customer experience is provided than with conventional systems which do not make this available to the service providers.

The mobile equipment has a general functionality whose nature depends on what type of equipment it is. For instance if the mobile equipment is a laptop computer its general functionality will include data storage and processing capability a user interface etc. A cell phone s general functionality would include voice telecommunications. The embodiment of the invention further includes an agent to be described in detail herebelow.

As the mobile equipment operates its operating parameters are sensed by a sensor and stored in parameter storage . The agent includes a processor which handles the parameters and transmits them through a transmit interface over the communication network. The sensor can include a hardware sensor a software implementation for obtaining the sensed parameter values or a suitable combination of both.

In another embodiment of the invention the agent includes the ability to sense the technology employed in the technology coverage area within which the mobile equipment is located. Referring again to a receive interface receives signals from the network which can be used to identify the technology employed within the technology coverage area. The signals are provided to the processor which interprets the signals appropriately to identify the technology employed. The processor then accesses a parameter list which contains sets of parameters that are appropriate for various coverage area technologies such as GPRS and IEEE 802.11 standards based protocols. The processor then configures the sensor to receive the sensed parameter signals that are appropriate for the technology used in that technology coverage area.

While the mobile equipment is in the technology coverage area sensed parameters from the mobile equipment are reported from the mobile equipment to the home service provider via its base station and the communication network . While the mobile equipment is outside of the technology coverage area the sensed parameters from the mobile equipment are reported from the mobile equipment to the home service provider via the equivalent of the base station for the current technology coverage area. In either case this may be done at specified time intervals in response to predetermined values of predetermined parameters when the predetermined values are sensed in response to a request from the service provider s server equipment accumulation of a predetermined quantity of parameters the detection of a change in network technology such as by crossing a technology coverage area boundary or at other times which the system architect may choose.

For instance in the implementation of the parameters are accumulated until one of the above stated conditions is met. This is tested for in step . If it is not yet time to send the parameter report then step performs additional parameter sensing.

If it is time to send a report then the agent prepares a parameter report step . For instance in one embodiment the processor prepares the parameter report by following its pre programmed instructions and or the agent s configuration settings. Preparing the parameter report may include packaging the sensed parameters into a data packet for transmission. pre processing the parameters etc. Pre processing may include summarizing the sensed parameters calculating statistics averaging flagging noteworthy sensed parameter values etc.

The parameter report is then transmitted step for instance through the transmit interface . In a preferred embodiment the agent continues sensing the parameters storing and accumulating the sensed parameters etc. by again executing step .

In step the agent senses the network technology employed in the technology coverage area. This is done by known methods such as by monitoring broadcast signal traffic and analyzing it for content and formats characteristic of a particular network technology by receiving and interpreting broadcast transmitter identification signals etc. Such broadcast signals are for instance received at the receive interface and interpreted by the processor in accordance with its programmed instructions. Alternatively the agent reads an Application Programming Interface API from the mobile equipment to identify the new technology coverage area.

In step the agent uses the sensed signals to determine what technology is supported in the technology coverage area in which the mobile equipment is currently located. Preferably a comparison is done between the currently detected network technology and network technology previously detected. If there is no difference step then the agent maintains the current parameter configuration step and continues to operate as before. If there is a difference then the agent concludes that the mobile equipment has moved from one technology coverage area into another. Alternatively the mobile equipment reads an Application Programming Interface API to find out what technology is now being used.

The agent then consults the parameter list to determine what parameters are to be sensed and or changed in the new technology coverage area step . The agent then reconfigures the sensor as appropriate to begin sensing the parameters that are appropriate for the new technology coverage area step . In addition to different parameters the agent may also employ additional code modules that are activated responsive to detection of such new technology.

In another embodiment the agent may receive new parameters new code modules etc. from outside the mobile equipment such as by receiving suitable communications through the receive interface .

Afterwards the agent resumes sensing parameters. In a preferred embodiment the agent performs the process of continuously as a background or base level task. It executes the process of according to an appropriate schedule. For instance the process of could be executed following step of before looping back to step . Alternatively could be called and executed as a subroutine at regular intervals after an elapsed predetermined time interval. If supported by the mobile equipment the mobile equipment can actively notify the agent when it enters a new technology coverage area via a callback API.

Assuming a service provider has already installed software agents on its customer devices the agent can be configured to make measurements continuously at intervals or do so when the customer uses the device. For example measurements that may be taken by an agent within a GPRS network include but are not limited to 

Length of time software applications are in the foreground applications such as a Web browser an e mail tool phone etc. 

Different measurements can be taken and would be needed for different networking technology. For example for IDEN networks the following are examples of measurements that may be taken 

As described above the agent is senses the technology being used and changes the measurements to be appropriate for the technology being used.

As the customer goes about his her business their mobile device will be taking measurements and either storing them on the device for later transmission to the Operational Support System OSS server or it will be transmitting the measurements at particular intervals using the network as the communications medium.

As the customer moves out of one technology coverage area into another the device automatically switches over to make the appropriate measurements for the new network technology. Conventionally for example if a piece of GPRS mobile equipment roams into an 802.11 standards based technology coverage area the provider would normally be blind to the performance the customer is experiencing.

However because the measurements are being taken from the mobile equipment the customer is independent of the network and the measurements can be provided back to the home service provider s OSS system. This data may be used by the home service provider for many different applications such as verification of network service performance or planning for extension to network coverage.

Because these agents may be employed on a large number of mobile devices some implementations likely will encounter issues with scaling. Conventionally installing agents on all of a service provider s customer devices would lead to a solution that could not scale. Also because the agents will reside on consumer devices there will be issues with privacy. Systems and methods which include embodiments of the present invention may advantageously address these issues by employing techniques such as those disclosed in the patent applications here listed 

Although the present invention has been described in detail with reference to particular embodiments persons possessing ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains will appreciate that various modifications and enhancements may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claims that follow.

