---

title: Optical communications using multiplexed single sideband transmission and heterodyne detection
abstract: A transmitter subsystem generates an optical signal which contains multiple subbands of information. The subbands have different polarizations. For example, in one approach, two or more optical transmitters generate optical signals which have different polarizations. An optical combiner optically combines the optical signals into a composite optical signal for transmission across an optical fiber. In another aspect, each optical transmitter generates an optical signal containing both a lower optical sideband and an upper optical sideband (i.e., a double sideband optical signal). An optical filter selects the upper optical sideband of one optical signal and the lower optical sideband of another optical signal to produce a composite optical signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07447436&OS=07447436&RS=07447436
owner: Forster Energy LLC
number: 07447436
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060831
---
This application is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 728 373 Optical Communications System Using Heterodyne Detection by Ting K. Yee and Peter H. Chang filed Nov. 28 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 209 660 which is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 474 659 Optical Communications System Using Heterodyne Detection by Ting K. Yee and Peter H. Chang filed Dec. 29 1999 now abandoned .

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 265 251 Fiber Optic Communications Using Optical Single Sideband Transmission Including Using Interleaver Filters and Heterodyne Detection and Apparatus for Impairment Compensation Using Nonlinear Phase Conjugation by Ting K. Yee et al. filed Jan. 30 2001.

This application relates to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 746 370 Wavelength Locking of Optical Sources by Shin Sheng Tarng et al. filed Dec. 20 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 483 131 issued Dec. 10 2002 .

This application also relates to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 747 261 Fiber Optic Communications using Optical Single Sideband Transmission and Direct Detection by Ting K. Yee Peter H. Chang and James F. Coward filed Dec. 20 2000 now abandoned .

This application also relates to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 854 153 Channel Gain Control For An Optical Communications System Utilizing Frequency Division Multiplexing by Laurence J. Newell and James F. Coward filed May 11 2001 and pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 569 761 Channel Gain Control For An Optical Communications System Utilizing Frequency Division Multiplexing by Laurence J. Newell and James F. Coward filed May 12 2000 now abandoned .

This application also relates to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 405 367 Optical Communications Networks Utilizing Frequency Division Multiplexing by Michael W. Rowan et al. filed Sep. 24 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 529 303 issued Mar. 4 2003 which is a continuation in part of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 372 143 Optical Communications Utilizing Frequency Division Multiplexing and Wavelength Division Multiplexing by Peter H. Chang et al. filed Aug. 20 1999 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 229 594 Electrical Add Drop Multiplexing for Optical Communications Networks Utilizing Frequency Division Multiplexing by David B. Upham et al. filed Jan. 13 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 452 945 issued Sep. 17 2002 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 035 630 System and Method for Spectrally Efficient Transmission of Digital Data over Optical Fiber by Michael W. Rowan et al. filed Mar. 5 1998 now abandoned .

This invention relates generally to optical fiber communications and more particularly to the use of single sideband transmission and heterodyne detection for optical fiber communications systems.

As the result of continuous advances in technology particularly in the area of networking there is an increasing demand for communications bandwidth. For example the growth of the Internet home office usage e commerce and other broadband services is creating an ever increasing demand for communications bandwidth. Upcoming widespread deployment of new bandwidth intensive services such as xDSL will only further intensify this demand. Moreover as data intensive applications proliferate and data rates for local area networks increase businesses will also demand higher speed connectivity to the wide area network WAN in order to support virtual private networks and high speed Internet access. Enterprises that currently access the WAN through T circuits will require DS 3 OC 3 or equivalent connections in the near future. As a result the networking infrastructure will be required to accommodate greatly increased traffic.

Optical fiber is a transmission medium that is well suited to meet this increasing demand. Optical fiber has an inherent bandwidth which is much greater than metal based conductors such as twisted pair or coaxial cable. There is a significant installed base of optical fibers and protocols such as SONET have been developed for the transmission of data over optical fibers. Typical communications system based on optical fibers include a transmitter an optical fiber and a receiver. The transmitter converts the data to be communicated into an optical form and transmits the resulting optical signal across the optical fiber to the receiver. The receiver recovers the original data from the received optical signal. Recent advances in transmitter and receiver technology have also resulted in improvements such as increased bandwidth utilization lower cost systems and more reliable service.

However current optical fiber systems also suffer from drawbacks which limit their performance and or utility. For example optical fibers typically exhibit dispersion meaning that signals at different frequencies travel at different speeds along the fiber. More importantly if a signal is made up of components at different frequencies the components travel at different speeds along the fiber and will arrive at the receiver at different times and or with different phase shifts. As a result the components may not recombine correctly at the receiver thus distorting or degrading the original signal. In fact at certain frequencies the dispersive effect may result in destructive interference at the receiver thus effectively preventing the transmission of signals at these frequencies. Dispersion effects may be compensated by installing special devices along the fiber specifically for this purpose. However the additional equipment results in additional power loss e.g. insertion loss as well as in additional cost and different compensators will be required for different types and lengths of fiber. Other fiber effects such as fiber nonlinearities can similarly degrade performance.

As another example the transmitter in an optical fiber system typically includes an optical source such as a laser and an external modulator such as a Mach Zender modulator MZM . The source generates an optical carrier and the modulator is used to modulate the optical carrier with the data to be communicated. In many applications linear modulators are preferred in order to increase the performance of the overall system. MZMs however are inherently nonlinear devices. Linear operation is approximated by biasing the MZM at its quadrature point and then limiting operation of the MZM to a small range around the quadrature point thus reducing the effect of the MZM s nonlinearities. However this results in an optical signal with a large carrier which contains no information and a small modulated signal which contains the data to be communicated . A larger optical signal to noise ratio is required to compensate for the large carrier.

As a final example optical fibers have an inherently large bandwidth available for the transmission of data but constructing transmitters and receivers which can take advantage of this large bandwidth can be problematic. First current approaches such as the on off keying and time division multiplexing of signals used in the SONET protocols cannot be extended to higher speeds in a straightforward manner. This is because current electronics technology limits the speeds at which these approaches can be implemented and electronics fundamentally will not have sufficient bandwidth to fill the capacity of a fiber. Even if this were not a limitation current modulation schemes such as on off keying are not spectrally efficient more data can be transmitted in less bandwidth by using more efficient modulation schemes.

Current optics technology also prevents the full utilization of a fiber s capacity. For example in wavelength division multiplexing signals are placed onto optical carriers of different wavelengths and all of these signals are transmitted across a common fiber. However the components which combine and separate the different wavelength signals currently place a lower limit on the spacing between wavelengths thus placing an upper limit on the number of wavelengths which may be used. This also leads to inefficient utilization of a fiber s bandwidth.

The ever increasing demand for communications bandwidth further aggravates many of the problems mentioned above. In order to meet the increasing demand it is desirable to increase the data rate of transmission across each fiber. However this typically can only be achieved by either increasing the bandwidth being utilized and or by increasing the spectral efficiency of the encoding scheme. Increasing the bandwidth however aggravates frequency dependent effects such as dispersion. Increasing the spectral efficiency increases the signal to noise requirements.

Thus there is a need for optical communications systems which more fully utilize the available bandwidth of optical fibers. There is further a need to reduce or eliminate the deleterious effects caused by fiber dispersion to reduce the power contained in the optical carrier and to combat the many drawbacks mentioned above.

In accordance with the present invention an optical communications system is for communicating information across an optical fiber and includes a transmitter subsystem. The transmitter subsystem includes at least two optical transmitters coupled to an optical combiner. Each optical transmitter generates an optical signal containing a subband of information. The optical signals have different polarizations which preferably are orthogonal polarizations. The optical combiner optically combines the optical signals into a composite optical signal.

In another aspect of the invention the transmitter subsystem includes an optical transmitter coupled to a polarization controlling device. The optical transmitter generates an optical signal containing at least two subbands of information. The polarization controlling device for example a birefringent crystal varies a polarization of the subbands so that the subbands have different polarizations.

The use of different polarizations yields many benefits. For example subbands with different polarizations will interact less since they have different polarizations. Thus unwanted effects due to phenomena such as four wave mixing and cross phase modulation will be reduced between the differently polarized subbands.

In another aspect of the invention the transmitter subsystem includes two optical transmitters an optical combiner and an optical filter coupled in series. Each optical transmitter generates an optical signal containing both a lower optical sideband and an upper optical sideband i.e. a double sideband optical signal . The optical combiner optically combines the two optical signals. The optical filter then selects the upper optical sideband of one optical signal and the lower optical sideband of the other optical signal to produce a composite optical signal. In one embodiment the optical filter includes two Bragg filters coupled in series. In another aspect of the invention the transmitter subsystem also includes a wavelength locking device coupled to the optical transmitters for locking a frequency separation of the optical signals to a predetermined value. In general one advantage of this approach is that the two optical sidebands and hence also the subbands which they contain can be more densely spaced in comparison to wavelength division multiplexing approaches thus resulting in higher bandwidth utilization.

In a preferred embodiment each optical transmitter includes at least two electrical transmitters an FDM multiplexer and an E O converter coupled in series. Each electrical transmitter generates electrical channels. The FDM multiplexer combines the electrical channels into an electrical high speed channel using FDM. The electrical high speed channel further includes a tone. The E O converter converts the electrical high speed channel into the optical signal for the optical transmitter. In one specific implementation there are two optical transmitters. One generates an optical signal containing at least two subbands and a tone each subband having a capacity of approximately 2.5 Gbps of information i.e. same data capacity as an OC 48 signal . The other generates an orthogonally polarized optical signal containing at least two other 2.5 Gbps subbands and a tone. An optical filter selects the upper optical sideband of one optical signal and the lower sideband of the other optical signal. Thus the total capacity for the transmitter subsystem is sixteen 2.5 Gbps subbands or approximately 40 Gbps.

In another aspect of the invention the optical communications system also includes a receiver subsystem coupled to the transmitter subsystem by an optical fiber. In a preferred embodiment for the case when the subbands within the composite optical signal have different polarizations the receiver subsystem includes a polarizing splitter module coupled to a plurality of heterodyne receivers. The polarizing splitter module splits the composite optical signal according to polarization for example into its constituent subbands. The heterodyne receivers then recover the subbands.

In further accordance with the invention a method for transmitting information across an optical fiber includes the following steps. Two optical signals are generated. Each optical signal contains a subband of information but the two optical signals have different polarizations. They are optically combined into a composite optical signal which is transmitted across an optical fiber.

Another method according to the invention includes the following steps. An optical signal containing at least two subbands of information is generated. The polarizations of the subbands are varied so that the subbands have different polarizations. The optical signal is then transmitted across an optical fiber.

Yet another method according to the invention includes the following steps. Two optical signals are generated. Each optical signal contains a lower optical sideband and an upper optical sideband. The two optical signals are optically combined and then optically filtered. The filtering selects the lower optical sideband of one signal and the upper optical sideband of the other signal. The resulting composite optical signal is transmitted across an optical fiber.

With reference to the flow diagram of as well as to system operates as follows. The frequency spectrum of an example information signal is shown by spectrum which is characterized by a frequency f. The frequency fcould be zero for example if the information signal is based on on off keying. The information signal may be any of a variety of signals. For example it may be a single high speed data stream. Alternately it may contain a number of data streams which are time division multiplexed together for example if 64 OC 3 data streams are combined together to form a single OC 192 signal which serves as the information signal . As another example the information signal may include a number of constituent signals each of which occupies a different frequency band within spectrum . In other words the constituent signals may be frequency division multiplexed together. Other types of information signals and methods for combining constituent signals to form the information signal will be apparent.

Transmitter receives the information signal and generates an optical signal . Optical signal is characterized by a carrier frequency fand includes at least one sideband based on the information signal and at least one tone shown at a frequency fin the following examples. Various techniques may be used to achieve this function. In a preferred embodiment transmitter includes an optical source coupled to an optical modulator . Examples of optical sources include solid state lasers and semiconductor lasers. Example optical modulators include Mach Zehnder modulators electro optic modulators and electro absorptive modulators. The optical source produces an optical carrier at the carrier frequency f. The modulator receives the information signal and modulates the optical carrier with the information signal to generate optical signal . In the example of double sideband modulation is illustrated resulting in two sidebands upper sideband U and lower sideband L which are centered about the carrier frequency f. Other types of modulation such as single sideband modulation could also be used. Continuing this example the modulator also produces a significant signal at the carrier frequency f which serves as a tone . Alternately transmitter may include an internally modulated laser. In this case the information signal drives the laser the output of which is the optical signal .

The optical signal is transmitted over fiber to receiver . Current optical fibers have two spectral regions which are commonly used for communications the 1.3 and 1.55 micron regions. At a wavelength of 1.3 micron transmission of the optical signal is primarily limited by attenuation in the fiber dispersion is less of a factor. Conversely at a wavelength of 1.55 micron the optical signal will experience more dispersion but less attenuation. Hence the optical signal preferably has a wavelength either in the 1.3 micron region or the 1.55 micron region and for long distance communications systems the 1.55 micron region is generally preferred.

At receiver heterodyne detector receives the incoming optical signal and also receives an optical local oscillator signal at a frequency f. In the local oscillator signal is shown at a frequency fwhich is lower than the carrier frequency fbut the local oscillator signal may also be located at a frequency fwhich is higher than the carrier frequency f. Examples of optical local oscillators include solid state lasers and semiconductor lasers. The optical signal and local oscillator signal are combined and heterodyne detection of the combined signal effectively downshifts the optical signal from a carrier at frequency fto a frequency f which is the difference between the local oscillator frequency fand the carrier frequency f. The resulting electrical signal has spectrum . Note that both sidebands L and U and tone have also been frequency downshifted compared to optical signal . Signal extractor then mixes at least one of the sidebands with one of the tones to produce a number of frequency components including one frequency component located at the difference frequency between the relevant sideband and tone . This difference component contains the information signal although it may be offset in frequency from the original frequency f depending on the frequencies of the sideband and tone . Frequency components other than the difference component may be used to recover the information signal. For example the mixing typically also produces a sum component located at the sum of the frequencies of the relevant sideband and tone and the information signal may be recovered from this sum component rather than the difference component. If more than one sideband is processed by signal extractor each sideband is processed separately from the others in a manner which prevents destructive interference between the sidebands.

However recovering the information signal based on the difference component of sideband and tone is advantageous because it results in noise cancellation. For example sideband L and tone are affected similarly by laser phase noise produced by optical source and optical local oscillator . Using the difference component effectively subtracts the laser phase noise in sideband L from the laser phase noise in tone resulting in significant cancellation of this noise source. In contrast using the sum component would effectively reinforce the laser phase noise.

Processing the sidebands separately from each other is also advantageous because it significantly reduces dispersion effects caused by fiber . For example in direct detection receivers upper and lower sidebands U and L would be processed together and at certain frequencies for the sidebands and lengths of fiber the dispersion effects of fiber would cause the two sidebands to destructively interfere significantly impairing the recovery of information signal . By processing sidebands separately from each other signal extractor avoids this deleterious dispersion effect.

In a preferred embodiment heterodyne detector includes a combiner and a square law detector coupled in series. Combiner preferably is a fiber coupler due to its low cost and applicability to fiber systems although other types of combiners may be used. Square law detector preferably is a PIN diode. Combiner receives the incoming optical signal at one of its inputs and receives the optical local oscillator signal at the other input. Combiner combines the local oscillator signal with the optical signal to produce the combined signal with spectrum . Heterodyne detector may also include a polarization controller coupled to the combiner for matching the polarizations of the optical signal and the local oscillator signal so that the two signals are mixed efficiently at the square law detector .

In a preferred embodiment the polarization controller matches the polarization of the local oscillator to the polarization of the tone . This matching is particularly advantageous when a polarization tracking algorithm is used because the tone is stable and does not have substantial amplitude variation and therefore provides better locking of the polarizations. In fibers having measurable polarization mode dispersion after propagation through the fiber each sideband and the tone can have slightly different polarizations thus resulting in attenuation of the detected electrical signal due to the polarization mismatch. Generally the further the separation in frequency between the sideband and the tone the stronger the attenuation of the detected electrical signal. This attenuation can be mitigated by boosting the transmit power of the affected subbands. For examples of methods for mitigating the attenuation of power in the subbands of the detected electrical signals including boosting the transmit power of subbands see co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 854 153 Channel Gain Control For An Optical Communications System Utilizing Frequency Division Multiplexing by Laurence J. Newell and James F. Coward filed May 11 2001 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 569 761 Channel Gain Control For An Optical Communications System Utilizing Frequency Division Multiplexing by Laurence J. Newell and James F. Coward filed May 12 2000 now abandoned .

In the polarization controller is shown located between the local oscillator and combiner and controls the polarization of the local oscillator signal . Alternately the polarization controller may be located between the fiber and combiner and control the polarization of the optical signal . In another approach polarization controller may control the polarizations of both signals and . Square law detector produces a photocurrent which is proportional to the intensity of signal which effectively mixes together the various frequency components in spectrum . The resulting electrical signal has a number of frequency components located at different frequencies with the components of interest shown by spectrum . Spectrum is similar to spectrum but frequency downshifted from the carrier frequency fto the difference frequency f.

In one aspect of transmitter the MZM is biased at one of the quadrature points A D. At these quadrature points the raised cosine transfer function may be used to approximates a linear transfer function particularly if the modulator is operated over a limited range around the quadrature points . When operated in this fashion transmitter results in the optical signal shown in spectrum . The raised cosine nature of transfer function results in dual sidebands L and U and operation at the quadrature point results in a large signal at the carrier frequency f which may be used as a tone .

A similar result may be obtained by various other approaches. For example the third arm C may be replaced by an optical fiber. Some of the optical carrier produced by source is diverted to the optical fiber and then recombined with the output produced by the MZM formed by arms A B. In another approach the MZM formed by arms A B may be biased at a point other than the V point thus producing an optical carrier. However the phase and or amplitude of the unmodulated carrier in arm C may be adjusted so that it interferes with the carrier produced by arms A B to generate an optical carrier with a desirable amplitude. The net result is an optical carrier of reduced amplitude. Alternately referring again to MZM may be biased at a point close to but slightly offset from the V points . The slight offset will result in some carrier being introduced into the optical signal thus resulting in a spectrum with a reduced optical carrier as in spectrum .

Signal extractor recovers the information signal from electrical signal as follows. Bandpass filter frequency filters one of the sidebands and one of the tones from electrical signal . In this example signal includes two sidebands and an optical carrier . Bandpass filter passes the upper sideband U and the optical carrier and blocks the lower sideband L thus producing spectrum . The square law device squares the filtered components resulting in spectrum . Spectrum includes frequency components located at the difference of frequencies between sideband U and tone and also frequency components located at the sum of these frequencies. Low pass filter selects the difference components thus recovering the information signal .

As noted previously selection of the difference components rather than the sum components is advantageous because it effectively cancels any noise sources which are common to both the tone and sideband . In addition processing a single sideband U rather than both sidebands U and L together prevents any potential destructive interference between the sidebands as may be caused by the frequency dispersion effects discussed previously.

Bandpass filter selects a tone and bandpass filter selects one of the sidebands . In this specific example the optical carrier and upper sideband U are the selected components. Multiplier multiplies the tone against the selected sideband U resulting in a signal with a sum component and a difference component as in . Low pass filter selects the difference component thus recovering the information signal .

Each extraction path processes a different sideband within the electrical signal to recover information signals A and B respectively. As an example extraction path A might process the upper sideband U whereas extraction path B processes the lower sideband L. Both extraction paths may use the same tone e.g. the optical carrier in their processing or they may use different tones. Combiner receives the recovered information signals A and B and constructively combines them to produce a resultant difference component C which contains the original information signal. The difference components A and B typically may be phase shifted with respect to each other in order to align their phases before they are combined the amount of the phase shift may be frequency dependent. If difference components are located at difference frequencies combiner may also frequency shift them to a common frequency before combining.

In a preferred embodiment each path is based on the approach of signal extractor of except that each extraction path is designed to process a different sideband. Thus for example the bandpass filter for extraction path A may be tuned to select the optical carrier and upper sideband U whereas the bandpass filter for extraction path B might select the optical carrier and lower sideband L. Alternately each extraction path may be based on the approach of signal extractor of .

Combiner includes a phase shifting element and an adder . Phase shifting element phase shifts the difference component A produced by extraction path A so that it is in phase with the difference component B produced by extraction path B. Adder then adds the two in phase components to produce the resulting difference component C.

In the optical carrier played the function of the tone . illustrates an example in which a tone is located at a frequency other than the carrier frequency. In particular is a diagram of another embodiment of transmitter using a pilot tone. Transmitter includes an optical source coupled to an MZM as in . However transmitter also includes a combiner and a pilot tone generator . The pilot tone generator is coupled to one input of combiner the output of which drives MZM . The other input of combiner receives information signal .

In transmitter combiner combines the pilot tone at a frequency fwith the incoming information signal and uses the combined signal to modulate MZM . If MZM is biased at the V point the resulting spectrum will include upper and lower sidebands of the information signal upper and lower sidebands of the pilot tone and no optical carrier. Each sideband of the pilot tone may be used by signal extractor as a tone . In other words the signal extractor may mix one of the pilot tones with one of the sidebands to recover the information signal .

All of the signal extractors described above may be adapted for use with optical signal . For example referring to bandpass filter may be adjusted to select one of the sidebands and one of the pilot tones . The square law device would then produce a corresponding difference component . Since this difference component might not lie exactly at baseband low pass filter may also need to be adjusted in order to recover the correct frequency components. Similarly referring to extractor may be adapted for use with signal by similarly adjusting the frequency bands for filters and to select an appropriate sideband pilot tone and difference component respectively. Similar adjustments may be made to the systems discussed in . Transmitter and optical signal are merely illustrative other combinations of tones and sidebands will be apparent.

In system includes a transmitter subsystem coupled to a receiver subsystem via an optical fiber . Briefly stated the transmitter subsystem encodes information to be transmitted onto an optical signal. For reasons which will become apparent below this optical signal is referred to as a composite optical signal. The composite optical signal is transmitted across the fiber and received by the receiver subsystem . The receiver subsystem recovers the original information from the composite optical signal.

In more detail the transmitter subsystem includes transmitters A N which are optically coupled to an optical combiner . Transmitter of and its variants are suitable for use as a transmitter . Each transmitter encodes information to be transmitted onto an optical signal which includes sideband s of information as discussed previously in the context of et seq. Each transmitter uses a different optical carrier frequency so as to spectrally separate the relevant sidebands of the various optical signals. Combiner optically combines the optical signals to produce the composite optical signal. Examples of combiners include 1 N power combiners i.e. not wavelength selective and WDM multiplexers. show spectra for two example composite optical signals. Referring first to transmitter A produces double sideband signal A. This signal includes optical carrier A at wavelength and an upper and lower sideband A U and A L respectively. Similarly transmitters B N produce signals B N. For clarity each of the sidebands A N will be referred to as subbands of the composite optical signal. The composite optical signal in has a similar structure to that in except that the constituent optical signals are single sideband signals.

Thus the composite optical signal includes at least two subbands of information at least one from each of at least two transmitters . The composite signal also includes at least one tone for use in the subsequent heterodyne recovery although it typically will contain more. As an example if the optical carrier corresponding to each subband is used as the tone then each transmitter will generate one tone and the composite optical signal will include a total of N tones. Each transmitter preferably generates the tone for the corresponding subbands.

On the receive side the receiver subsystem includes an optical splitter coupled to heterodyne receivers A N. Ignore element for now. Again receiver of and its variants are suitable for use as a receiver . The optical splitter splits the composite optical signal into N optical signals from which the encoded information is recovered. Each optical signal includes at least one subband and one tone and each heterodyne receiver recovers the information from the subband using the heterodyne techniques described previously. More specifically each heterodyne receiver uses an optical local oscillator at the appropriate frequency to select if necessary and process the appropriate subband and tone which it receives. In a preferred embodiment there is a one to one correspondence between transmitters and receivers . The optical local oscillator for receiver A is selected to recover the subband produced by transmitter A which is located at an optical carrier frequency of . A similar relationship exists for the other transmitters and receivers .

System implements an unconventional type of wavelength division multiplexing WDM . Each of the optical signals generated by transmitters uses a different wavelength . These different wavelength signals are combined and then transmitted over a single fiber . At the receiver subsystem they are then separated by wavelength and separately processed. However as a result of the inherent spectral selectivity and increased sensitivity of heterodyne detection system is different from conventional WDM systems in many respects. For example in a conventional WDM system the wavelength separation is implemented entirely by optical splitter which would be a WDM demultiplexer. In system however the heterodyne receivers are also wavelength selective. Thus the optical crosstalk suppression requirements of the optical splitter can be less stringent than those required for conventional WDM systems.

For example in certain applications a standard 1 N power splitter is appropriate for optical splitter . Note that a conventional 1 N power splitter simply splits an incoming signal into N outgoing signals each with 1 N the power of the original signal. Furthermore unlike a WDM demultiplexer a power splitter is not wavelength selective and therefore also is not selective between optical signals located at different wavelengths. Thus for example a power splitter does not suppress crosstalk between signals at different wavelengths. As a result of the large power loss the lack of wavelength selectivity and the corresponding lack of crosstalk suppression power splitters generally are not preferred for conventional WDM systems. In system however the use of heterodyne detection overcomes both of these limitations. The increased sensitivity of heterodyne receivers compensates for the large power loss. The use of an optical local oscillator and subsequent electrical filtering to select the subband and tone of interest compensate for the lack of wavelength selectivity and crosstalk suppression. In fact heterodyne receivers can be more wavelength sensitive than current WDM demultiplexers thus allowing the optical carriers used by transmitters to be more closely spaced than in conventional WDM systems. As an intermediate solution optical splitter may have some wavelength selectivity. For example it may be a conventional 1 N power splitter followed by broad wavelength filters so that the optical signals entering each heterodyne receiver are somewhat attenuated in the unwanted wavelength bands. Referring to a wavelength filter tuned to wavelength may be located at in order to filter the signal received by receiver A. This increases the wavelength selectivity and also increases the optical signal to noise ratio since out of band noise is reduced. Alternately optical splitter may be a WDM demultiplexer which has a spectral response too wide for use in conventional WDM systems but which offers some improvement over a spectrally flat power splitter.

In system is designed to transmit a composite optical signal of 40 billion bits per second Gbps of digital data across a single fiber. System includes a transmitter subsystem coupled to a receiver subsystem via an optical fiber . In system of each transmitter received an electrical information signal and generated an optical signal with sidebands. The optical signals were then optically combined to produce the composite optical signal. In system the information signals and tones are electrically combined to produce an electrical high speed channel which is then converted to optical form to produce the composite optical signal. Approaches which use a mix of electrical and optical combining will be apparent. illustrate the frequency spectra of various signals in system . For clarity only the relevant portions of these spectra are depicted in the figures.

In more detail transmitter subsystem includes four electrical transmitters A D which are electrically coupled to an FDM multiplexer which in turn is coupled to transmitter . Each electrical transmitter includes the same construction as element in FIG. 6B of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 405 367 Optical Communications Networks Utilizing Frequency Division Multiplexing by Michael W. Rowan et al. filed Sep. 24 1999 hereafter the FDM Application now U.S. Pat. No. 6 529 303 issued Mar. 4 2003 . In brief electrical transmitter includes a QAM modulator included in element of coupled to an FDM multiplexer elements and in . Each electrical transmitter receives 64 incoming electrical low speed channels each of which has a data rate of 155 Mbps in this specific embodiment. The QAM modulator applies a QAM modulation to each incoming lowspeed channel. The FDM multiplexer combines the QAM modulated low speed channels using FDM techniques to form an electrical channel A D which has a data rate of 10 Gbps and a width of approximately 5.5 GHz. The frequency spectra of signals A and D are shown in . See also FIG. 10D et seq. in the FDM Application.

The FDM multiplexer combines the four 10 Gbps channels into a single electrical signal which for convenience will be referred to as the electrical high speed channel . It does this using conventional FDM techniques frequency shifting some or all of the 10 Gbps channels to higher carrier frequencies. For example referring again to channel A is not frequency shifted as shown by spectra A but channel D is frequency shifted up to the 25 GHz range as shown by spectra D. The embodiment shown in uses a frequency mixer D to frequency shift channel D and also uses mixers B and C to frequency shift channels B and C respectively. No frequency mixer is used for channel A since it is not frequency shifted. Alternate embodiments may frequency shift some none or all of the channels and devices other than frequency mixers may be used to achieve the frequency shifting. Tones are added after this frequency shifting. In the example of each tone is located at a slightly lower frequency than its corresponding channel . In other embodiments the tones may be located at other frequencies including for example at frequencies higher than those of the corresponding channel. In other embodiments the tones may also be added at different times during the signal processing and or different channels may share a common tone. In addition the electrical transmitters may include frequency shifters to move the spectral location of channels for example if they would otherwise overlap with the tones . In this embodiment the electrical high speed channel has a total data rate of 40 Gbps and a spectral width of approximately 25 GHz as shown in . In the embodiment shown in the FDM multiplexer also includes filters which filter out unwanted frequency components.

Transmitter is an E O converter which in this embodiment includes a laser and a Mach Zender modulator . The laser generates an optical carrier at a frequency fand the MZM modulates the optical carrier with the 40 Gbps electrical high speed channel . As described previously the MZM may be operated at a number of different bias points. In this embodiment it is biased at a point at or close to the V points of . In some applications it is preferable to bias the MZM at the V point. For example if separate pilot tones are used reducing or eliminating the optical carrier will save power. In theory biasing at the V point should eliminate the optical carrier but practical constraints usually result in a reduced but non zero optical carrier. The result is a composite optical signal with double sideband modulation and a reduced optical carrier as shown in . Note that the composite optical signal has two optical sidebands U and L each including four separate subbands A D. As mentioned previously although this example is based on a double sideband optical signal single sideband signals may also be used. For example in one embodiment the lower sideband L of composite signal is eliminated for example by optical filtering. The resulting composite signal would occupy half the spectral bandwidth.

On the receive side the receiver subsystem includes an optical splitter which is optically coupled to four heterodyne receivers A D each of which is coupled to an electrical receiver . The splitter splits the received composite signal into four optical signals A D one for each heterodyne receiver . Accordingly each optical signal includes a primary subband of interest plus corresponding tone . In this embodiment the optical splitter is a power splitter with wavelength filters as described previously. In an alternate embodiment the optical splitter includes separate splitters each of which splits off one of the optical signals from the composite signal .

In the embodiment shown the heterodyne receivers recover the original electrical signals from the incoming optical signals . Continuing the trace of signals through receiver A receiver A uses an optical local oscillator which is located at a frequency which is 11.5 GHz removed from the optical carrier frequency.

Spectrum A of shows the relevant portions of the signal after the optical local oscillator has been combined with the incoming optical signal A and then detected by the square law detector. The spectrum A includes several frequency components . Frequency components A and A are the frequency offset versions of the optical carrier subbands A and tones A respectively.

Using a square law detector frequency components and result from the direct detection of the received signal. For convenience these components and shall be referred to as direct detection components. In particular frequency component generally includes the direct detection cross products of the subband of interest and tones which are located close in frequency for example the cross product of subband A U with tone A U . Frequency component may also include the direct detection cross products of other subbands and tones if they have not been significantly filtered for example the cross product of subband B U with tone B U . Frequency component generally includes the direct detection square products of the subband of interest for example the square product of A U in this example. It may also include direct detection cross products of subbands with each other for example the cross product of subband A U with A L .

Note that frequency components and typically represent the most significant unwanted frequency components but not the only unwanted frequency components. For example cross products of tones and carriers are not shown in . Neither are all of the possible cross products which theoretically could be generated from the square law detection. Although not shown in all of these frequency components are accounted for in the overall design typically either by ensuring that they fall outside the frequency band of interest or by sufficiently attenuating them or the frequency components which give rise to them so that they are negligible.

Spectrum A illustrates an embodiment in which the local oscillator is selected so that the direct detection components and do not overlap with the primary subband A U . In the example given here the frequency offset is 11.5 GHz but any suitable offset may be chosen. In an alternate embodiment the direct detection components and or may overlap with the primary subband A U so long as the resulting crosstalk is tolerable.

The subband A U is frequency filtered and frequency down shifted to approximately the 0 5.5 GHz spectral location by using component A U as the tone in the signal extractor yielding the electrical signal A as shown in . The frequency filtering also reduces the noise which results from the local oscillator beating with optical noise in the signal.

Optical signal D is similarly processed as shown in . More specifically the local oscillator for heterodyne receiver D is selected to be 11.5 GHz offset from tone D U . Spectrum D of shows the signal after this optical local oscillator has been combined with the incoming optical signal D and then detected by the square law detector. Frequency components D U D U and C U are the frequency offset versions of the tone D U the primary subband D U and other subband C U respectively. Frequency components and are direct detection components. The subband D U is frequency filtered and frequency down shifted to the 0 5.5 GHz spectral location yielding the electrical signal D as shown in .

Note that since receiver subsystem splits the composite signal into four signals each of which is processed by a different heterodyne receiver each heterodyne receiver can have a narrower spectral response than if the entire composite signal were processed by a single receiver. In this case each heterodyne receiver recovers a signal of approximately 5 GHz spectral width and requires a similar spectral operating range whereas the composite signal has a sideband width of approximately 25 GHz.

Electrical receiver reverses the functionality of electrical transmitter separating the incoming 5.5 GHz electrical signal into its 64 constituent 150 Mbps low speed channels . Accordingly each receiver includes the same construction as element in of the FDM Application. An FDM demultiplexer elements and in frequency demultiplexes the 5.5 GHz electrical signal into 64 separate electrical channels each of which is then QAM demodulated by a QAM demodulator included in element in .

System like the other systems described is an example. The invention is not limited to the specific numbers of transmitters and or receivers frequency ranges data rates etc. Other variations will be apparent. For example a 40 Gbps transmitter subsystem operating at a first wavelength could be used as the transmitter A in system a second transmitter subsystem operating at wavelength as transmitter B and so on with corresponding changes on the receive side. In this way systems and can be combined to yield an even higher data rate system.

As another example illustrates one example composite signal in which each subband has a corresponding tone and the tones are located between the optical carrier and the corresponding subband . illustrate other types of composite optical signals. In the composite signal is similar to composite signal of with one difference. The tone A for the innermost subbands A is located at the same frequency as the optical carrier rather than at a separate frequency as is the case with tones A in . In the composite signal is similar to composite signal except that there is a wide spectral separation between the subbands and optical carrier . In each subband is located between the optical carrier and the corresponding tone instead of vice versa as in . As a final example in the tones are shared by subbands . For example tone A U corresponds to both subband A U and subband B U . Other variations will be apparent.

System operates as follows. Each optical transmitter produces an optical signal A or B respectively which eventually is transmitted down the fiber as an optical single sideband signal. Each optical signal includes one or more subband s and tone s for eventual heterodyne detection. In this particular example optical signal A is a double sideband signal having an upper optical sideband A U a lower optical sideband A L and a suppressed carrier A. In an alternate embodiment the carrier A may not be suppressed in the optical transmitter but suppressed later for example by optical filter . Upper sideband A U includes subbands A U and A U and tone A U . Lower sideband A L includes the mirror image subbands A L and A L and tone A L . Note that in this example the subbands A and A are not upper and lower sidebands resulting from an electrical double sideband modulation in which signal A is an electrical carrier. Rather each subband A and A carries different information and signal A is a tone.

Optical signal B is similarly structured containing two optical sidebands B and a suppressed carrier B. Each optical sideband B includes two subbands B and B and a tone B. The subbands B and B are different from the subbands A and A so in this example there are a total of four subbands carrying different information. Optical signals A and B are also different in that they are orthogonally polarized. In one embodiment they have crossed linear polarizations. In the orthogonal polarizations are indicated by the orientation of the spectra. For example spectra A is oriented in the plane of the paper indicating one polarization while spectra B is oriented coming out of the paper indicating an orthogonal polarization. In addition the two optical signals use optical carriers of different wavelengths. In an alternate embodiment the optical signals are orthogonally polarized but not using crossed linear polarizations. For example one signal A may be right circularly polarized whereas the other signal B is left circularly polarized. In another embodiment the two optical signals have different polarizations but may not be completely orthogonally polarized to each other.

The two optical signals are combined using combiner . The combiner preferably is a polarized beam combiner so that optical signals are minimally attenuated. In this example the optical carriers are selected so that in the combined signal the upper optical sideband A U of one signal is adjacent to the lower sideband B L of the other signal.

Optical filter filters out the redundant sidebands lower sideband A L and upper sideband B U in this case. Filter may also substantially attenuate the carriers particularly if for example the optical transmitters do not significantly suppress the carriers . In this example the optical filter is shown on the transmit side located after the optical combiner . However filtering typically can be implemented at a number of different locations and or distributed between different locations. For example an optical filter may also be placed on the receiver side between fiber and optical splitter . One advantage of this placement is that this optical filter can also filter out noise generated during transmission such as amplified spontaneous emission. In WDM applications filters can also be used to suppress unwanted channels. As a final example optical filters can be placed between the optical transmitters and optical combiner to filter out the unwanted sidebands and or suppress the optical carriers.

In one embodiment optical filter is a simple optical bandpass filter. In another embodiment the optical filter is implemented as a comb filter or a series of comb filters. Comb filters have periodic alternating pass and stop bands which repeat on a regular basis. For example a comb filter might have alternating pass and stop bands with the spectral response repeating with a periodicity of 100 GHz as shown in . Put in another way the comb filter in has pass bands spaced on 100 GHz centers. In one embodiment the comb filter is implemented as an interleaver which can also be used to combine sets of wavelengths in WDM applications. One advantage of using comb filters including interleavers is that tunable optical carriers can be accommodated. If the wavelength of the optical carriers is changed the transmitter subsystem is still functional so long as the desired subbands fall in one of the pass bands of the comb filter or series of comb filters .

For example most WDM standards specify a grid of wavelengths in which the wavelengths are regularly spaced. By using a comb filter matched to this spacing any of the wavelengths in the grid can be accommodated. This is because a comb filter has multiple pass bands which are periodically spaced. For example the optical transmitters may be based on optical sources in which the wavelength is tunable to different wavelengths in the grid e.g. a tunable laser . In contrast an optical bandpass filter typically only has a single pass band. If the wavelength of the optical carriers is changed this typically will require a different bandpass filter matched to the new wavelengths or at least tuning of the location of the pass band .

To use a numerical example assume that the WDM standard specifies a spacing of 100 GHz between different wavelength channels. By using a comb filter with the same periodicity such as the one in any of the wavelength channels can be accommodated. In a different embodiment two comb filters are used each with a periodicity of 200 GHz. One comb filter handles the even wavelength channels and the other comb filter handles the odd wavelength channels.

The resulting composite optical signal includes the upper sideband A U from optical signal A and the orthogonally polarized lower sideband B L from optical signal B. Each of the four subbands of composite optical signal carries different information for example a different 10 Gbps data stream in one embodiment. Note that composite optical signal is a single sideband signal in that only one optical sideband of each subband is transmitted. The other optical sideband was removed by filter . System is merely one example of an approach capable of generating optical single sideband signals. For example see of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 747 261 Fiber Optic Communications using Optical Single Sideband Transmission and Direct Detection by Ting K. Yee Peter H. Chang and James F. Coward filed Dec. 20 2000 now abandoned .

On the receive side the receiver subsystem is similar to receiver subsystems and . This particular receiver subsystem includes an optical splitter coupled to four heterodyne receivers A D. Each receiver recovers one of the four subbands A B A or B using heterodyne techniques for example as described previously. Subbands A and A each use tone A in the heterodyne detection. In other words the tone A is shared by two subbands. Similarly subbands B and B share tone B. The splitter splits the received composite optical signal into four optical signals A D one for each heterodyne receiver . Each optical signal includes the relevant subband plus tone. As before the polarization controller within the receivers matches the polarization of the local oscillator to the polarization of the tone. When multiple subbands share the same tone placing the tone in the middle of the subbands is preferred. Thus the frequency separation between the tone and the furthest subband is minimized thereby minimizing the attenuation of the detected electrical signal due to polarization mode dispersion.

In the embodiment shown in the optical splitter includes a polarizing beam splitter module coupled to two optical splitters A B each of which is coupled to an optical filter A D. The polarizing beam splitter module directs signal A U to splitter A and orthogonally polarized signal B L to splitter B. Each optical splitter further divides the incoming signal and the corresponding filters filter the appropriate subband and tone. For example splitter A splits the signal A U into two identical signals each of which is directed to one of the optical filters A B. Filter A attenuates unwanted subband A U and passes subband A U and tone A while filter B attenuates unwanted subband A U and passes subband A U and tone A.

Briefly the optical transmitter operates as follows. Each electrical transmitter produces an electrical channel . The two electrical channels A and B correspond to the subbands and The FDM multiplexer combines the channels into a single electrical signal using conventional FDM techniques. A tone which corresponds to tone is also added. The FDM multiplexer also includes filters which filter out unwanted frequency components. The electrical signal entering the E O converter includes two subbands and a tone.

In this embodiment the E O converter includes a laser a Mach Zender modulator and a polarization controller . The laser generates an optical carrier and the MZM modulates the optical carrier with the incoming electrical signal . As described previously the MZM may be operated at a number of different bias points. In this embodiment it is biased at a point close to the V points of . Since the electrical signal has its own tone reducing the optical carrier saves power. The result from MZM is a double sideband signal.

The polarization controller controls the polarization of this signal yielding the optical signal with upper and lower optical sidebands and a reduced optical carrier . In one approach the polarization controller is a polarization rotator. In another embodiment the output of the MZM is coupled to polarization preserving fiber which is physically rotated or twisted to achieve the desired polarization rotation. In a preferred embodiment only one of the two optical transmitters requires a polarization controller in order to manipulate the polarization of one signal to be orthogonally polarized to the other signal .

This approach has many benefits. For example since optical signals A U and B L are orthogonally polarized their interaction is significantly reduced. This in turn reduces unwanted nonlinear effects between differently polarized components such as those due to four wave mixing and cross phase modulation. In addition composite optical signal is generated by producing two optical signals A and B with separate carriers A and B but with sidebands A U and B L which are close to each other. The desired sidebands are selected by filtering. This approach allows the sidebands and their subbands to be more densely spaced in comparison to wavelength division multiplexing approaches.

As a final example the subbands within each sideband are assembled using frequency division multiplexing in the electrical domain. Assembling subbands via frequency division multiplexing also results in many benefits such as dense spacing of the subbands efficient bandwidth utilization both as a result of dense spacing and efficient modulation techniques less susceptibility to frequency dependent effects non linear fiber effects and polarization mode dispersion since each subband is concentrated over a narrow frequency band and the ability to easily handle channels of different data rates and protocols.

Referring again to the two optical carriers are selected so that the upper sideband A U and lower sideband B L are close enough to each other that they can be selected by filter . To achieve this the two optical sources in the two optical transmitters preferably are wavelength locked to each other. It is even more desirable for each optical source to be wavelength locked to a specific wavelength in which event the difference between the two sources would also remain constant.

These components are coupled as follows. The sinusoidal generator is coupled to the electrical input of MZM A. It is also coupled to both synchronous detectors and . One optical tap is located before the optical filter and the other optical tap is located after the optical filter . Tap is coupled to photodetector to synchronous detector to comparison circuitry . Similarly tap is coupled to photodetector to synchronous detector to comparison circuitry . The output of comparison circuitry is coupled to the optical source A.

Wavelength locking of optical source A occurs as follows. The sinusoidal generator produces a reference signal at a frequency f which preferably is low for example in the kHz range. The optical signal A is modulated at this low frequency f. In the modulation is achieved by adding the reference signal at frequency f to the electrical signal driving the MZM A. In an alternative embodiment the laser A is directly modulated by the reference signal or by amplitude modulating the laser A. Amplitude modulation generally results indirectly in frequency modulation. Direct laser modulation generally requires that the heterodyne detector can accommodate the associated frequency excursions of the laser. Whatever the method the optical signal includes a small component at a frequency f offset from the optical carrier A.

Optical tap taps a small portion of the optical signal prior to propagating through the filter . This is detected by photodetector which results in mixing of the various frequency components in the tapped signal. Synchronous detector receives these various frequency components and also receives a reference signal at frequency f. The synchronous detector locks in to the second harmonic component at 2 f other harmonics the fundamental or subharmonics can also be used and outputs a signal proportional to the strength of this frequency component. Examples of synchronous detector include lock in amplifiers and digital circuitry for implementing the same functionality. The output signal also indicates the strength of the optical carrier A before filtering since the frequency f is negligible with respect to that of the optical carrier. In a similar fashion the optical tap photodetector and synchronous detector generate an output signal which indicates the strength of the optical carrier A after filtering by optical filter .

Comparison circuitry receives the signals from the two synchronous detectors and and compares them. In this particular example the comparison circuitry take the ratio of the two signals. The ratio indicates the attenuation experienced by the optical carrier A as it propagates through optical filter which in turn is a function of the wavelength of the optical carrier A. Therefore based on this ratio the comparison circuitry generates an error signal which is used to adjust the wavelength of optical source A.

As a specific example shows the transfer function of optical filter as a function of wavelength. Assume that optical carrier A nominally is located at the wavelength on the lower edge of the filter transfer function and at this wavelength the filter has a 6 dB optical attenuation. In this implementation this corresponds to a 12 dB attenuation of the relevant electrical signal. If the actual ratio is 12.1 dB of electrical attenuation then the optical carrier A must be at a wavelength lower than nominal and comparison circuitry generates an error signal to increase the wavelength. Similarly if the actual ratio is only 11.9 dB of attenuation then the error signal decreases the wavelength.

The same approach is used to wavelength lock the optical carrier B generated by optical source B. In the nominal wavelength of carrier B is also located at 6 dB of attenuation but at the upper edge of the filter transfer function. Thus too much attenuation means the wavelength is too high and too little attenuation means the wavelength is too low.

As usual the wavelength locking device in is merely an example. Other approaches to wavelength locking may also be used including those discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 746 370 Wavelengh Locking of Optical Sources by Shin Sheng Tarng et al. filed Dec. 20 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 493 131 issued Dec. 10 2002 .

The optical transmitter includes the following components. There are eight channels one for each incoming OC 48 signal with each channel including an OC 48 transceiver error correction encoder and modulator coupled in series. The eight channels are coupled to four combiners two channels coupled to each combiner. Each combiner enters a frequency upconverter all of which are coupled to a final combiner .

The optical transmitter operates as follows. Each OC 48 signal is transformed from optical to electrical signal by the transceiver . The resulting spectrum is shown in . The electrical signal is encoded by the FEC using a forward error correction code and then QPSK modulation is used in modulator to modulate an RF carrier. In more detail QPSK modulator encodes the incoming data as I and Q channels which are then used to modulate an electrical carrier. In this particular example alternate channels use the same frequency carrier. That is channels A C E and G use one carrier resulting in the spectrum but channels B D F and H produce spectrum . The combiners combine the channels two at a time producing spectra . These four signals are frequency shifted to different frequency locations by the frequency upconverters and then combined by combiner to yield the electrical signal . This signal contains eight subbands A H generated from the original spectra . A tone is also added. This electrical signal is then fed to the E O converter where it is processed the same as in . As mentioned previously this is but one example of an optical transmitter. For example other architectures for frequency division multiplexing the channels together will be apparent.

The optical transmitter includes the following components. There are eight channels one for each incoming OC 48 signal with each channel including an OC 48 transceiver and error correction encoder coupled in series. The eight channels then share four modulators two channels per modulator. The four modulators are coupled to an FDM multiplexer which could be similar in construction to the combination shown in .

The optical transmitter operates as follows. Each OC 48 signal is transformed from optical to electrical signal by the transceiver . The electrical signal is encoded by the FEC using a forward error correction code. QPSK modulators encode the eight incoming data streams as four I channels and four Q channels and each I Q pair is used to modulate an electrical carrier. The result is four QPSK modulated signals. Note that the OC 48 signals may be asynchronous with respect to each other. These four subbands plus a tone are combined by FDM multiplexer to yield the electrical signal . This signal contains four subbands A D and a single shared tone . Each subband contains the data from two OC 48 signals for a data rate of approximately 5 Gbps per subband . This electrical signal is then fed to the E O converter where it is processed the same as in . A second similar optical transmitter produces a second orthogonally polarized optical signal. The two optical signals are combined to generate a composite optical signal. The resulting composite optical signal contains two orthogonally polarized optical signals each having the structure of four subbands plus tone.

As is noted throughout the systems described herein are merely examples. It is not feasible to explicitly describe all possible embodiments which are based either on the principles illustrated or on combinations of these principles. For example systems and discuss at length the use of electrical frequency division multiplexing for combining signals. System and discusses the use of carriers at different wavelengths for combining signals. Systems and discuss the use of different polarizations in order to improve performance. Systems and discuss at length the use of optical single sideband transmission. System discusses at length the approach of using separated optical carriers to produce sidebands which are close to each other and then selecting the desired sidebands via an optical filter. System discusses at length the approach of using a single optical transmitter to produce a signal with multiple subbands of varying polarizations. However this does not imply that each technique can only be used in the systems which discuss the technique at length or only in the combinations which are explicitly illustrated.

For example illustrate other types of composite optical signals. illustrates various signals which include four subbands. The corresponding tones if any have been omitted for clarity. In the composite optical signal includes four subbands of the same polarization situated near each other. For composite optical signal the spectral width of the guard band i.e. gap between the subbands is generally less than the spectral width of the subbands. Note that this signal could be generated by using the two optical carrier approach shown in but without the cross polarization. In the four subbands are situated near each other but they are divided into two groups of two subbands each and the two groups are orthogonally polarized with respect to each other. In the subbands are again divided into two groups of two subbands each but here the groups are widely separated from each other. Because of the wide separation of the subbands composite optical signal will experience substantially less cross phase modulation and four wave mixing between the more widely separated subbands. shows the subbands as the same polarization but they could also have varying polarizations. As a final example shows a composite optical signal in which the subbands alternate in polarization. In other words the subbands of one polarization are interleaved with the subbands of the orthogonal polarization.

Although the invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiments contained herein.

