---

title: Patent-related tools and methodology for use in research and development projects
abstract: The present invention is related to patent-related tools, and methodologies involving those tools, for assisting in all stages of research and development (R&D) projects. The IPAM server may be used in conjunction with the tools and methodologies to aid in R&D projects. These tools or methods include, but are not limited to, a topographic map, a top company table, a top inventor table, a inventors by company table, a features grouping, a technology classification, a Standard Industrial Codes (SIC) classification, a patent citation tree, a patent count/year, an application count/year, a nested patent citation tree, a product/patent/revenue table, a patent/months to issue chart, and a document/annotation chart.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966328&OS=07966328&RS=07966328
owner: Rose Blush Software LLC
number: 07966328
owner_city: Los Altos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060831
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 790 897 filed Feb. 23 2001 now pending which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and which is a continuation in part application to the following applications Patent Related Tools and Methodology for Use in Research and Development Projects invented by Germeraad et. al. application Ser. No. 09 545 564 Filed Apr. 7 2000 now abandoned Intellectual Property Asset Manager IPAM for Context Processing of Data Objects invented by Rivette et al. application Ser. No. 09 260 079 Filed Mar. 2 1999 now abandoned and Patent Related Tools and Methodology for Use in the Merger and Acquisition Process invented by Germeraad et. al. application Ser. No. 09 560 889 Filed Apr. 28 2000 now abandoned which are each incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

 System Method and Computer Program Product for Patent Centric and Group Oriented Data Processing invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 991 751 issued Nov. 23 1999 from application Ser. No. 08 867 392 Filed Jun. 2 1997 incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 Using Hyperbolic Trees to Visualize Data Generated by Patent Centric and Group Oriented Data Processing invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 339 767 issued Jan. 15 2002 application Ser. No. 08 921 369 Filed Aug. 29 1997 incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 System Method and Computer Program Product for Managing and Analyzing Intellectual Property IP Related Transactions invented by Rivette et al. application Ser. No. 09 138 368 Filed Aug. 21 1998 now abandoned incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 Method and Apparatus for Synchronizing Displaying and Manipulating Text and Image Documents invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 623 681 issued Apr. 22 1997 from application Ser. No. 08 155 572 filed Nov. 19 1993 incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 System and Method and Computer Program Product for Using Intelligent Notes to Organize Link and Manipulate Disparate Data Objects invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 806 079 issued Apr. 17 1996 from application Ser. No. 08 632 801 Filed Apr. 17 1996 incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 Method and Apparatus for Synchronizing Displaying and Manipulating Text and Image Documents invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 809 318 issued Sep. 15 1998 from application Ser. No. 08 832 971 filed Apr. 4 1997 incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 System Method and Computer Program Product for Accessing a Note Database Having Subnote Information for the Purpose of Manipulating Subnotes Linked to Portions of Documents invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 950 214 issued Sep. 7 1999 from application Ser. No. 09 058 275 Filed Apr. 10 1998 incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 System and Method for Developing and Maintaining Documents invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 754 840 issued May 19 1998 from application Ser. No. 08 590 082 filed Jan. 23 1996 incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 System Method and Computer Program Product for Generating Equivalent Text Files invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 799 325 issued Aug. 25 1998 from application Ser. No. 08 662 377 filed Jun. 12 1996 incorporated by reference in its entirety 

 System Method and Computer Program Product for Managing and Analyzing Intellectual Property IP Related Transactions invented by Rivette et al. application Ser. No. 09 138 368 Filed Aug. 21 1998 now abandoned incorporated by reference in its entirety and

 System Method and Computer Program Product for Creating Subnotes Linked to Portions of Data Objects After Entering an Annotation Mode invented by Rivette et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 389 434 issued May 14 2002 application Ser. No. 09 057 557 Filed Apr. 9 1998 incorporated by reference in its entirety .

The invention is generally directed to methodologies related to research and development projects and more particularly directed to patent related tools and methodologies involving those tools for assisting in all stages of research and development projects.

Research and Development R D projects typically go through a variety of stages before an idea can be commercialized or launched as a final product. A funnel map as shown in is the classic way to look at R D projects. illustrates that an R D project may have but is not limited to five 5 stages. The first stage is the Idea Stage. Here the idea is expanded and is prepared for consideration as a formal project program.

The second stage is the project definition and preliminary assessment stage hereafter Preliminary Assessment Stage . This stage immediately follows the Idea Stage and comprises project definition and preliminary assessment of the feasibility of the technology and business surrounding the idea or project. The basic questions asked at this stage includes Will mother nature let it happen on the technical side and Will consumers be interested on the buy side 

The purpose of preliminary assessment is to explore new ideas and concepts and set in motion as many promising seed ideas or projects as possible. The cost of research and investigation is small at this stage. A single worker may have a project or even work on several projects simultaneously. At this stage there are typically many avenues being explored and no valid idea is neglected. The main consideration is whether the idea is strategically appropriate and whether the expertise available to address the idea is adequate and part of the company s core competencies. The output of this stage is the validation of ideas physical principles and market features. Metrics for this process address the possibility of a market and whether or not basic scientific principles are established.

The next stage relates to the feasibility of technology and business relating to the idea hereafter Feasibility Stage . At this stage the company has tentatively agreed on a particular R D project. We believe that Mother Nature will let it happen but in this stage the purpose is to show that Mother Nature will allow it to happen. Thus this stage tests whether a concept is validated in the laboratory by making a prototype any way that it can be done. The emphasis is on the proof of principle for real business applications.

The Feasibility Stage is also concerned with validating that at least one lead customer might be interested in the technology or idea. Here business considerations such as market window and competitive reaction begin to be important although there will still be exploration of options and possible spin offs of the technology or idea. The filtration function at this stage to go on to the next stage is fairly strong since although the cost of research in the Feasibility Stage is still not great there typically are many more candidate ideas than there are resources to explore them.

The following stage addresses the product development prototyping and market development hereafter Development Stage . Development projects are carried out for the ideas that are highly promising for commercialization and meet all of the requirements for profitable business products. Here we are concerned with whether a set of key lead customers will be interested and not just one lead customer as in the Feasibility Stage . In addition candidate technologies in this stage have forecast long term corporate benefit and meet all the strategic requirements of fit alignment and attractiveness for the business. Emphasis shifts in this stage to harder edge issues such as timing and execution to assure that market windows are met and product needs are satisfied. There is also emphasis on maintaining and extending technologies to keep a competitive edge in the marketplace. Milestones are important due to cycle time issues. Project finding must be managed more carefully due to budgets which are typically millions of dollars rather than the 100 times lower investment that may be typical of the Feasibility and Preliminary Assessment Stages.

The final stage involves scale up and commercial introduction of the product or service that resulted from the initial idea hereafter Scale up Stage . The Scale up Stage is the last stage prior to full product launch. Here the question asked is whether the company will be able to deliver the product with quality and service. Concerns for entering full commercialization are about whether all major manufacturing and distribution hurdles are cleared and whether commercialization costs allow for profitable entry into the marketplace. Some strategic questions must still be addressed including market need and timing. Metrics here address both the strategic and tactical issues. Scale up is obviously market and manufacturing oriented. Careful management of commercialization and product costs timing and execution are the key issues. Since budgets up to tens to hundreds of millions of dollars may be at stake program and resource management are paramount.

Once a business goes through the R D process for multiple products and or services a R D portfolio is created. Typically a R D project consists of a written description. This written description has similar elements such as the purpose of developing the technology the particular way it will be done the types of things it may be useful for and so forth. It is important for a business with such a portfolio to be able to improve upon its R D portfolio. One example of how to improve the R D portfolio has been called Third Generation R D and the goal is to select and improve upon an R D portfolio hereafter Portfolio Stage . In order to improve upon an R D portfolio it would be helpful to compare a R D project in the portfolio with existing markets and technologies.

How much time is spent at each of the stages above depends partly on the idea itself. For example an idea can just be a small deviation from what already exists e.g. red pens exist and the idea is to make a blue pen or an idea can be completely on the other side of the spectrum and be a breakthrough idea e.g. a flying car . For ideas that are small deviations from what already exists the stages of R D process are passed through so quickly that one may not even realize they are touching every stage. For breakthrough ideas one stage may last many years. Here one loses track of which stage he or she is in because each stage is so drawn out.

It is possible to facilitate expedite and enhance R D projects by building upon work that has been performed in the past. However there are little if any automated tools for assisting in this process. There are even less automated tools that utilize patent related tools for assisting in research and development projects.

The present invention is related to patent related tools and methodologies involving those tools for assisting in all stages of R D projects see . In the present invention IPAM server may be used in conjunction with the tools and methodology to aid in R D projects. The IPAM server can also be used as a support tool for independent inventors. These tools or methods include but are not limited to a topographic map a top company table a top inventor table a inventors by company table a features grouping a technology classification a Standard Industrial Codes SIC classification a patent count per year chart a patent count per year chart an application count per year chart a technology by company map a patent citation tree a nested patent citation tree a product patent revenue table a patent months to issue chart and a document annotation chart.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. The drawing in which an element first appears is typically indicated by the leftmost character s and or digit s in the corresponding reference number.

The present invention is related to patent related tools and methodologies involving those tools for assisting in all stages of research and development projects. illustrate features of embodiments of the present invention. The pending U.S. applications cited above describe system and methods for achieving the functions functionality reports etc. represented in . Understanding of other methodologies represented in and variations and extensions thereof will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein and the teachings contained in the patents and pending U.S. applications cited above.

The present invention provides patent related tools and methodologies for R D. This may be accomplished through an Intellectual Property Asset Management IPAM server which is described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled Cross Reference to Other Patents and Applications. The functionality of the present invention that is described herein as being performed by IPAM server is not limited to being performed by IPAM server. For example tools such as Excel spreadsheets the IBM patent server the USPTO public server and Manning and Napier s search tools can all be used to perform some or most of the steps of the described methodologies. It is important to note that the exact platform used to perform the methodologies herein is not critical.

IPAM server may be used in conjunction with the tools to aid in R D. For convenience IPAM server will briefly be discussed herein although the invention is not limited to this brief description.

Briefly stated IPAM server deals with context data processing. IPAM server may be used to define and select one or more contexts. Each context includes one or more attributes and a plurality of data objects that satisfy the attributes. A list of data objects contained in the selected contexts may be displayed. At least some of the data objects in the selected contexts may be processed. Such processing may involve generating hierarchical and or directed acyclic graph data structures to represent relationships among the data objects. These data structures can then be displayed in a variety of well known techniques including but not limited to hyperbolic trees. Examples of such hierarchical or directed acyclic graph structures include claim trees citation trees and data object families which may be displayed using hyperbolic trees.

In an embodiment the contexts are groups. In another embodiment the contexts are each associated with a data object type. In this latter embodiment the contexts include data objects of their respective data object types.

IPAM server also supports the generation of annotations. IPAM server supports a plurality of annotation types including document annotations group annotations data object type annotations case annotations and enterprise annotations. IPAM server also supports form based annotations.

In an embodiment IPAM server has a plug in manager coupled thereto. Also included may be at least one plug in coupled to the plug in manager and at least one external data processing component coupled to the plug in. In an embodiment the external data processing component displays data using at least graphs. In another embodiment the external data processing component displays data using at least maps. The plug in manager has a first application programming interface API and each external data processing component has a second API. The plug in translates messages from the plug in manager to the external data processing component to a format conforming to the second API and translates messages from the external data processing component to the plug in manager to a format conforming to the first API.

Embodiments of IPAM server can process display and otherwise operate with patent equivalent text files EQV or other types of files or data to aid in R D although the invention is not limited to this embodiment. Patent equivalent text files are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 623 681 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. A patent equivalent text file includes equivalency information that establishes an equivalency relationship between the text in the patent equivalent text file and the image in the patent image file. For example this equivalency information may include pagination information that enables the patent equivalent text file to be displayed having the same pagination line breaks column breaks page breaks as the patent image file. In an embodiment a pagination module generates the patent equivalent text file by comparing the patent text in the patent text file with the patent image file to detect equivalency information. This equivalency information is then embedded in the patent equivalent text file along with the patent text. While the pagination module is capable of performing the pagination operation automatically in some cases some manual intervention is required. In accordance an operator is sometimes involved with the pagination process performed by the pagination module.

In the present invention IPAM server may be used in conjunction with the tools and methodology to aid in R D projects. The IPAM server can also be used as a support tool for independent inventors. is an example overview of the R D tools that map to each stage in the R D process and in the R D Portfolio Stage. The mapping provided in is presented for illustrate purposes only. Other uses and applications of the invention will be apparent based on the teachings contained herein. These tools or methods include when they are incorporated with IPAM server but are not limited to a topographic map a top company table a top inventor table a inventors by company table a features grouping a technology classification a Standard Industrial Codes SIC classification a patent count per year chart a patent count per year chart an application count per year chart a technology by company map a patent citation tree a nested patent citation tree a product patent revenue table a patent months to issue chart and a document annotation chart . The following describes each tool or method and how it may be combined with IPAM server to aid in the R D stages of a product in addition to the R D Portfolio Stage. As each of these tools or methods are described below an exemplary graphical presentation is used. It should be noted that the particular exemplary graphical presentation used is for convenience purposes only and the invention is not limited to that particular graphical presentation. For example a bar chart can be also implemented as a pie chart radar or spider charts two or three dimensional graphs etc. and vice versa.

The same tool may be used in different ways to facilitate different stages in R D. For example the topographic map in conjunction with IPAM server is Tool in the Idea Stage Tool in the Preliminary Stage Tool in the Feasibility Stage Tool in the Development Stage and Tool in the Portfolio Stage. Other uses of tools will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein.

Referring to IPAM server incorporates the topographic map to facilitate the Idea Stage as Tool the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool the Development Stage as Tool and the Portfolio Stage as Tool in the R D process. How IPAM server and topographic maps are incorporated together to produce contour maps is described in detail in the commonly owned patent application Intellectual Property Asset Manager IPAM for Context Processing of Data Objects invented by Rivette et al. application Ser. No. 09 260 079 Filed Mar. 2 1999 now abandoned incorporated by reference in its entirety . IPAM server and the topographic map are used in a slightly different way to facilitate each of these stages. illustrates the topographic map facilitating the Idea Stage as Tool entitled A Map of Similar Ideas Art and Markets. As stated above in the Idea Stage the idea is expanded and is prepared for consideration as a formal project product.

In topographic map as Tool is shown. The purpose of Tool in the Idea Stage is to display a map of preferably patent abstracts that identifies related materials processes and uses to consider when expanding and refining the idea. An addition purpose for using Tool at this stage is to provide information relating to whether other individuals or companies are doing similar things and selling them. If so this demonstrates that the idea is reasonable for a technical and market standpoint. In addition the topographical map shows sub groupings for further exploration of the idea. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the topographic map to aid in the R D Idea Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of U.S. patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents this is also true for all of the searches discussed herein . Here the search performed is typically but is not limited to a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. The user interface of IPAM server is described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled Cross Reference to Other Patents and Applications. For illustration each show a screen shot of IPAM server s user interface relating to the boolean and or natural language search described herein.

For illustration purposes assume that the idea involves inkjet printing for cardboard boxes. A boolean and or natural language search on the keywords cardboard and or inkjet printing on the group of all U.S. patents is likely to produce a large number of patents in the idea subject group of patents. Here if Tool is not used in conjunction with the IPAM server the user would typically have to narrow the search to a more manageable number of patents by date by adding more keywords and so forth. The goal would be to reduce the number of patents down to a number of patents that the user can study in depth. With the present invention there is no need for the user to further define his or her search. This is illustrated in the following step .

In step IPAM server is used to produce a topographic map having a map with contours and labels indicating areas related to the idea subject searched in step . Here the group of patents produced in step are further subdivided into subgroups with each subgroup relating to a different area. Typically this is done by the user selecting a topographic map function on the computer screen. The topographic map produced by Tool shows the pattern of subjects of all of the patents produced in step e.g. shows areas related to the user s idea . Labels on the topographic map indicate the idea subject and the contours indicate how may U.S. patents exist for each subgroup area. The topographic map shows areas people are focusing on. Control then passes to step .

In step the user studies the topographic map produced by Tool and determines whether the exact area of the user s idea subject is included in the topographic map . If the outcome to step is positive then control passes to step . Alternatively control passes to step .

In step an area related to the user s idea subject was not included in the topographic map . Here the user can determine if another area that is shown in the topographic map is worth further exploration. Using same example as in step above assume that the topographic map does not show an area relating to inkjet printing for cardboard boxes but does show an area related to printing on heavy paper stock. Another example is if the cardboard that the user is interested in printing on has a coating on it as many recycled boxes do then the user may want to look at the area of printing on plastics or films. The user may be interested in exploring further one or more of these different areas. The present invention also allows the user to explore one or more different areas even if the area relating exactly to the user s idea subject is displayed. Control then passes to step .

In step the user selects the contour or label of interest in the topographic map . This is typically done by the user clicking on the contour of interest. Control then passes to step .

In step the IPAM server processes the sub group of U.S. patents that are included in the contour of interest indicated by the user in step . Again topographic map is displayed with contours but this time the topographic map is more specific to exactly the user s contour or area of interest. Now the topographic map shows the different types of technologies that are in the contour of interest. In addition the topographic map may show the different uses of the idea or area of interest. This indicates to the user whether the initial idea is reasonable from a technical and or market standpoint. At this point the user may use the IPAM server as described in detail in the applications and patents referenced above in the section entitled Cross Reference to Other Patents and Applications. At this point flowchart ends.

The topographic map in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Preliminary Assessment Stage of the R D process. This is shown in as Tool and is entitled A Map of Similar Technology and Uses. The Preliminary Assessment Stage comprises project definition and preliminary assessment of the feasibility of the technology and business surrounding the idea or project. The purpose of Tool is to provide the project team with a high level map of the scope of the project. This includes showing the range of materials and the processes and uses to consider on the project.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the topographic map to aid in the R D Preliminary Assessment Stage is similar to how it works in the Idea Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is the initial search in step . Instead of searching just the group of U.S. patents as in the Idea Stage here the search consists of the group of U.S. European Japanese and other available patents and applications. As with Tool because the user is still looking at a fairly broad field the abstract of each patent and application is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The search itself may also slightly different in that the search is created by a boolean and or natural language search on project concept and not just an idea as in step but is not limited to this.

As shown in the topographic map in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Feasibility Stage of the R D process. In general the Feasibility Stage tests whether a concept is validated in the laboratory and with at least one lead customer. The topographic map used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled A Map of Technology and Uses the Project Team is Focused on Refining. The purpose of Tool is to provide the project team and management with a high level map of technologies and markets which are feasible to explore. A map of full patent text identifies art and uses to consider when assessing the feasibility of market and technical alternatives. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the topographic map to aid in the R D Feasibility Stage is similar to how it works in the Idea Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is the initial search in step . Instead of searching just the group of U.S. patents as in the Idea Stage here the search consists of the group of U.S. European Japanese and other available patents and applications. Here because the desired search is starting to narrow as compared to Tools and where only the abstract was searched the entire patent is typically searched. The search itself may also slightly different in that the search is created by a boolean and or natural language search on project concept and not just an idea as in step but is not limited to this.

As shown in the topographic map in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Development Stage of the R D process. In general in the Development Stage candidate technologies determined from the Feasibility Stage have forecast long term corporate benefit and meet all the strategic requirements of fit alignment and or attractiveness for the business. The topographic map used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled Map of Competitive Technology and Uses. The purpose of Tool is to provide the project team and management with a high level map of technologies and markets which are 1 under development and or 2 potentially competitive. A map of patent claims identifies related technologies and companies to work around and block out in the Scale up Stage. In addition Tool helps to indicate to a company who the competitors are in a particular area. This map also allows you to do time slices indicating who has entered the market and in which years or time slices. This indicates those companies on which competitive intelligence should be performed.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the topographic map to aid in the R D Development Stage is similar to how it works in the Idea Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is the initial search in step . Instead of searching just the group of U.S. 

European Japanese and other available patents and applications as in the Idea Stage here the search consists of the group of all patents applications and documents narrowed to reflect the project concept under development. Here because the desired search is more narrow than the search with Tool the entire patent is typically searched. For example in the Development Stage if the user was concerned about infringing patents the search may focus on only the claims of each patent. The search itself is also slightly different in that the search is created by a boolean and or natural language search on project elements and not just an idea as in step but is not limited to this.

The topographic map in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Scale up Stage not indicated in by providing analysis that will not only increase the strength of any patent applications that are filed on the idea but also increase the probability of an earlier successful patent prosecution. The topographic map in conjunction with IPAM server helps to identify technical fields that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and other competitors will search for prior art to be used against the patent application during prosecution. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the topographic map to aid in the R D Scale up Stage is similar to how it works in the Idea Stage as described with reference to above. The one exception is that the group searched in step is all patents and applications narrowed to reflect the developing products but is not limited to this.

As shown in the topographic map in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Portfolio Stage which occurs after the R D process. Once a business goes through the R D process for multiple products and or services a R D portfolio is created. Typically a R D project consists of a written description. This written description has similar elements as a patent such as the propose of developing the technology the particular way it will be done the types of things it may be useful for and so forth. It is important for a business with such a portfolio to be able to improve upon its R D portfolio. In order to improve upon a R D portfolio the present invention allows a company to compare a R D project in the portfolio with existing markets and technologies. The topographic map used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled Map of Company Competency New Projects. The purpose of Tool is to provide the management of a company visual image of core competencies and future directions. In addition it maps core competencies of the company and allows the user to also map new projects under consideration for R D portfolio to the core competencies of the company.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the topographic map to aid in the Portfolio Stage is similar to how it works in the Idea Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is the initial search in step . Instead of searching the group of all U.S. European Japanese and other available patents and applications as in the Idea Stage here the search consists of a more limited group of patents that include the company s patents product descriptions and suggested project ideas. The search consists of assignee searches on the company which is different from the search performed in step .

Referring to Tool allows the user to add R D project information to a group of patents to determine where on the topographic map its R D projects fall. This indicates such things as is the R D project going to be competing with an active or crowed area and thus more competition or will the R D project going to be competing in an explored area and so forth. This is a very powerful tool for portfolio reviewers which typically includes the top management of a company. This is very powerful when a company is making a portfolio decision about which R D project to push forward on and which to drop. Many times it depends on the strategy of the company. One strategy is to capture explored areas. If the topographic map indicates that a R D project will be headed to a crowded area at least it will be a deliberate and expected outcome when competition is tough. Tool allows a strategic planning team to at a glance make a rational decision without having to look at in the case of our inkjet printers on cardboard example thousands of patents.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the top company table to facilitate the Idea Stage in the R D process. illustrates an example top company table facilitating the Idea Stage as Tool entitled A Table of Assignees. A similar chart is shown in as Tool in three dimensional . As stated above in the Idea Stage the idea is expanded and is prepared for consideration as a formal project product.

In top company table as Tool is shown. The purpose of Tool in the Idea Stage is to display a table that provides a patent count report of the assignees or companies that are somehow involved in areas related to the idea. This helps to provide information relating to the quality and variety of top companies who are also active in areas surrounding the idea. The table of assignees gives new ideas on technology and markets to consider when expanding and refining the idea. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the top company table to aid in the R D Idea Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include European Japanese and other available patents and or applications. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server generates a top company table that indicates the top assignees companies in a related area to the idea subject searched in step . Here the group of patents produced in step are further subdivided into subgroups with each subgroup having the same assignee company. IPAM server may store the assignee information of patents in a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the assignee company information but is not limited to this.

Typically step is initiated by the user selecting a top company function on the computer screen. The top company table produced in conjunction with IPAM server and Tool shows the quality and variety of top companies who are also active in areas surrounding the idea. At this point flowchart ends.

Note that in the Idea Stage a user may decide to combine or integrate one or more tools to facilitate the stage. For example once the group of patents from the search in step is divided into subgroups in step the user may use Tool to produce the topographic map and or Tool to produce the top company table . The integration and combination of tools discussed herein to facilitate the R D stages is limitless and particular combinations useful to particular applications will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant arts based on the techniques contained herein. Following is a general discussion describing how a company would use Tool to facilitate the Idea Stage.

Referring to the example idea involves microwave food heating. What shows is the ranking of companies in terms of frequency of patents from the largest in this example Mitsushita Electric Industrial Co. Ltd. Raytheon Company and General Electric Company are the top companies to the smallest companies individuals who only have one patent . Assuming the user has an understanding of what different companies do the user can go down the list of companies in the top company table and get a feeling for how the company is involved in areas related to the idea.

For example due to the nature of Matsushita Electrical Industrial Co. Ltd. Raytheon Company and General Electric Company one can assume that these companies are making microwave ovens. The James River Corporation is a packaging company and thus it is likely to be making the packages for microwave ovens. As the user goes through the list it gives him or her a feeling for the companies who are working in the area of microwave food heating. Therefore because of what a user knows the user gets an idea about the technology each company is likely to apply which market segments they are likely to be going into and so forth. This facilitates the Idea Stage because it gives the user new ideas and markets.

Another way to use Tool is as follows. Again top company table shows the quality and variety of top companies who are also active in areas surrounding the idea. If the most active companies are large companies it gives the user the indication that if the user wants to develop the idea himself or herself then he or she may have a struggle in breaking into related or the same area. If this is the case the user may decide to approach one or more of the top companies and sell the idea suggest a partnership license a patent that relates to the idea and so forth. At the bottom of the top company table are companies or individuals who own one patent in the area. This indicates to the user that although the company individual expended enough energy to get a patent chances are the patent was never pursued. This presents a good source of companies individuals to approach to either buy their patent or license their patent.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the top inventor table to facilitate the Idea Stage in the R D process. illustrates an example top inventor table facilitating the Idea Stage as Tool entitled A Table of Inventors. In general the top inventor table identifies leading inventors allows companies to compare their own inventors to other inventors in the same market and tracks inventor movement between companies.

In top inventor table as Tool is shown. As stated above in the Idea Stage the idea is expanded and is prepared for consideration as a formal project product. The purpose of Tool in the Idea Stage is to display a table that provides a patent count report of the inventors that are somehow involved in areas related to the idea. This helps to provide information relating to the quality and variety of top inventors who are also active in areas surrounding the idea. The top inventor table identifies people who have worked in the area and therefore provides suggestions as to other types of searches to perform e.g. literature searches on the top inventors . How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the top inventor table to aid in the R D Idea Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include European Japanese and other available patents and or applications. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server generates a top inventor table that indicates the top inventors in a related area to the idea subject searched in step . Here the group of patents produced in step are further subdivided into subgroups with each subgroup having the same inventor. As with assignee information IPAM server may store the inventor information of patents in a metadata field that will also need to be searched to determine the inventor information but is not limited to this.

Typically step is initiated by the user selecting a top inventor function on the computer screen. The top inventor table produced in conjunction with IPAM server and Tool shows the quality and variety of top inventors who are also active in areas surrounding the idea. At this point flowchart ends.

As noted above once the group of patents from the search in step is divided into subgroups in step the user may also use Tool to produce the topographic map and or Tool to produce the top company table to indicate the companies each inventor has worked for .

A general discussion describing how a company would use Tool to facilitate the Idea Stage will now be described. Referring to the example idea involves microwave food heating. What shows is the ranking of inventors in terms of frequency of patents from the most in this example Melvin L. Levinson to the least. Looking at the top inventor table the user notices there are multiple inventors with over thirteen 13 patents. This indicates that these inventors have been practicing the art for some time. If the top inventor table shows that no inventor has more than three 3 patents this indicates nobody has really been in the field enough to buildup a patent portfolio related to the idea. And then there s some cases where you ll find a person s with fifty 50 patents in an area indicating potential experts in the field.

What is important is that people who tend to patent a lot also tend to publish. And so this table identifies people who ve worked in the area and you should run literature searches on them that is non patent searches. These are people on which to perform competitive intelligence. Which societies are they members of Why are they interested in that And which kinds of other journal articles have they written Depending upon the quality of the journal an example well regarded journal being the the user gets an idea on how solid the inventor s technical work is. If the inventor s work is solid then the inventor is likely to have a good understanding of that field. Whereas if the user runs a literature search and the user finds out that the inventor is publishing mostly in the trade magazines the user knows that although the inventor is patenting a lot there is perhaps not as much depth and understanding of the idea in that person.

The depth and understanding of inventors in areas related to the user s idea is helpful to know for a number of reasons such as the following. Say the user has come up with a really unique way of doing a particular job. The user wants to be able to predict what the chances are that one of these inventors listed in the top inventor table is going to stumble on the same unique way. It there is little chance that one of the inventors will stumble on the same unique way it s reasonable for the inventor to pursue the project. Or on the other hand if the user finds an inventor who is really studying the field and is a good scientific and rigorous thinker the user might want to consider who might be in that area and what might blindside the user s project. One question the user is asking in the Idea Stage includes Is my idea solid and thus worth pursuing 

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the inventors by company table to facilitate the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool and the Feasibility Stage as Tool in the R D process. As will be apparent from the description below inventors by company table is an integration combination of the top company table and the top inventor table .

The inventors by company table in conjunction with IPAM server is useful in the Preliminary Assessment Stage of the R D process. This is shown in as Tool and is called A Table of Inventors by Assignee. The Preliminary Assessment Stage comprises project definition and preliminary assessment of the feasibility of the technology and business surrounding the idea or project. The purpose of Tool is to show which top individuals at what companies may be resources for the project team. Tool identifies people who have worked in the idea area and therefore who to run literature searches on and potentially establish partnership contracts with. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the inventors by company table to aid in the R D Preliminary Assessment Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the groups of all U.S. and European patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include. Japanese and other available patents and or applications. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step the group of patents produced in step are further divided into subgroups with each subgroup having the same inventor. IPAM server may store the inventor information of patents in a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the inventor information but is not limited to this. Control then passes to step .

In step each subgroup produced in step is further divided into subgroups by assignee company. IPAM server may store the assignee information of patents in a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the assignee information but is not limited to this. The flowchart ends at this point. Following is a general discussion describing how a company would use Tool to facilitate the Preliminary Assessment Stage.

Referring to the example idea involves microwave food heating. What shows is the ranking of inventors by company in terms of frequency of patents. The types of information the user can derive from viewing includes not only knowing which companies you may want to create a partnership with but which individuals in the companies you would want to work with.

The other information that Tool provides to the user is an indication of partnerships between the different companies that is not public information. Some inventors will show up as working for more than one assignee company . In other words they ve done work and they ll show up as having filed with several different companies. In this case two things may have happened. Either the inventor has switched jobs or the two companies have a partnership working in the area. If one or two inventors have the same set of companies listed together the inventor probably just switched jobs. On the other hand if the inventors by company table shows 3 10 or 15 people that have the same pairings of companies this indicates that there has been an inter company partnership formed to work in that area.

The key point about the business process to make here is that when the user sees this he or she knows that there is a partnership between the companies. This can be valuable competitive intelligence information because many times there will be partnerships formed that show up in these patents that are not publically announced. The types of companies that team up together in a particular area may be an indication of the types of products the user will have to compete with in the future.

As shown in the inventors by company table in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Feasibility Stage of the R D process. In general the Feasibility Stage tests whether a concept is validated in the laboratory and with at least one lead customer. The inventors by company table used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled A Table of Inventors by Assignee. The purpose of Tool is to show which individuals may be resources for the project team and which to commence competitive intelligence on.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the inventors by company table to aid in the R D Feasibility Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is the initial search in step . Instead of searching just the groups of U.S. and European patents as in the Preliminary Assessment Stage here the search consists of the group of U.S. patents European patents and European applications but is not limited to this.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the features grouping chart to facilitate the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool and the Development Stage as Tool in the R D process.

The features grouping chart in conjunction with IPAM server is useful in the Preliminary Assessment Stage of the R D process. This is shown in as Tool and is called Groupings of Proposed Product Features. The Preliminary Assessment Stage comprises project definition and preliminary assessment of the feasibility of the technology and business surrounding the idea or project. The purpose of Tool is to uncover distinctive and sometimes known product feature sets early in a project. Tool expands possible alternative customer features to be considered by the project team. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the features grouping chart to aid in the R D Preliminary Assessment Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the groups of corporate and patent documents. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on corporate and patent document but may include other available documents. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on product attributes which are sorted and grouped. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server is used in conjunction with the features grouping to create a chart showing groupings of proposed product features. The chart in expands possible alternative customer features to be considered by the project team.

The features grouping chart in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Feasibility Stage of the R D process. This is shown in as Tool and is called Map of Which Proposed Product Features Are Feasible. The purpose of Tool is to find product feature sets early in the project via previous internal research and partner s research. Tool also highlights distinctive features needed by customers in a way that they can be prioritized and traded off. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the features grouping chart to aid in the R D Feasibility Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment Stage as described with reference to above.

The features grouping chart in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Development Stage of the R D process. This is shown in as Tool entitled Map of achievable Product and Service Features. The purpose of Tool is to visualize and present product feature sets to the review team in a dynamic form. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the features grouping chart to aid in the R D Feasibility Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment and Feasibility Stages as described with reference to above.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the technology classification to facilitate the Idea Stage as Tool the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool the Development Stage as Tool and the Scale up Stage as Tool in the R D process.

In technology classification as Tool is shown. The purpose of Tool in the Idea Stage is to provide the necessary information to the user e.g. inventor of the idea as to what other technologies might be used to build upon the initial concept. In addition Tool identifies technical fields that possibly impinge on the idea. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the technology classification to aid in the R D Idea Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include European Japanese and other available patents and or applications. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step and further divides it into subgroups with each subgroup having the same technology classification. When the search in step is on the group of U.S. patents the classification used is the U.S. Patent Classification designated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In a similar manner if the search in step is on the group of International patents then the classification used would be the IPC classification. IPAM server may store the U.S. Patent Classification or IPC classification a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the technology classification but is not limited to this. Control then passes to step .

In step IPAM server is used in conjunction with a technology classification to create a graphical representation of similar technologies. Typically this is done by the user selecting a technology classification function on the computer screen. The technology classification produced by Tool shows the diverse technologies via U.S. Patent Classifications that might be used to build upon the initial idea. The graphical representation in is a pie chart. The present invention is not limited to using a pie chart but could also use radar or spider charts two or three dimensional graphs etc.

Referring to the U.S. Patent Classification represents the most common type of technology that can be used to implement the idea. The most common type of technology is typically the lowest cost. The most unique technologies that can be used to implement the idea are shown by the smallest slivers in the pie chart of . The most unique technologies generally indicate technologies that the user may not have thought of without the present invention. It is important to keep in mind that Tool is used in the Idea Stage and the user is concerned with whether his or her idea makes any initial sense to pursue.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the SIC classification to facilitate the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool and the Development Stage as Tool .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents European patents and European applications and other available patents and or applications . Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each patent and or application is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents and applications. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step and further divides it into subgroups with each subgroup having the same technology classification. When the search in step is on the group of U.S. patents the classification used is the U.S. Patent Classification designated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In a similar manner if the search in step is on the group of International patents and applications then the classification used would be the IPC classification. IPAM server may store the U.S. Patent Classification and IPC classification each as a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the technology classification but is not limited to this. Control then passes to step .

In step each U.S. and IPC classification determined by step is mapped to its related SIC classification. Control then passes to step .

In step IPAM server is used in conjunction with a SIC classification to create a graphical representation of similar industrial markets. Typically this is done by the user selecting a SIC classification function on the computer screen. The SIC classification produced by Tool shows the diverse markets via SIC Classifications that apply to the idea. The graphical representation in is a pie chart. The present invention is not limited to using a pie chart.

Referring to the SIC Classification represents the most common market or industry that the idea is related to. SIC classification codes are provided by the U.S. Department of Commerce.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent count per year to facilitate the Idea Stage as Tool . illustrates the count per year facilitating the Idea Stage as Tool entitled Patent Activity Chart. As stated above in the Idea Stage the idea is expanded and is prepared for consideration as a formal project product.

In patent count per year as Tool is shown. The purpose of Tool in the Idea Stage is to provide such information to the user inventor so that he or she can time his or her efforts to match the general activity in the area of the idea. In addition Tool identifies speed of change in the environment surrounding the idea i.e. the velocity and intensity of activity in the market . How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent count per year to aid in the R D Idea Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include European Japanese and other available patents and or applications. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server is used in conjunction with patent count per year to create a chart that indicates the top assignees companies in a related area to the idea subject searched in step . Here the group of patents produced in step are further divided into subgroups with each subgroup having patents that were issued in the same year and relate to the idea. Typically step is initiated by the user selecting a patent count per year function on the computer screen. At this point flowchart ends.

Following is a general discussion describing an example thought process of the user as he or she uses Tool in the Idea Stage. Referring to the idea relates to the microwave heating of food. The user may look at the chart and notice that through the mid 1980s there was slow and steady growth of patents being issued relating to microwave heating of food. This indicates there is a lot of art in that time frame. But it also tells the user that it s an area of growth and people are still investing in it so if the user has a good idea he or she should consider participating.

What the user sees in the years 1990 and 1991 is doubling of the activity from the year or two previous. This indicates that in 1990 and 1991 everyone jumped into the markets relating to the microwave heating of food. Again unless the user has a very distinctive idea he or she may decline to get into the market. Looking at the late 1990 s it appears as if the market is declining. At this time it may not be a good business decision to pursue the idea of microwave heating of food.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent count per year to facilitate the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool the Development Stage as Tool and the Scale up Stage as Tool . What these tools illustrate in three dimensional form what Tool illustrated as discussed above.

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the groups of all U.S. European and other available patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step the group of patents produced in step are further divided into subgroups with each subgroup having the same assignee company. IPAM server may store the assignee information of patents in a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the assignee but is not limited to this. Control then passes to step .

In step each subgroup produced in step is further divided into subgroups by year. IPAM server may store the year information of patents in a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the year but is not limited to this. The flowchart ends at this point.

As shown in the patent count per year in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Feasibility Stage of the R D process. In general the Feasibility Stage tests whether a concept is validated in the laboratory and with at least one lead customer. The patent count per year used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled Recent Patent Activity Chart. The purpose of Tool is to inform the project team of potential partners and competitors to investigate further. In addition the chart shows intensity of recent effort in the project s environment.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent count per year to aid in the R D Feasibility Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is in step . In the Preliminary Assessment Stage all years we included in the chart. Here only the last two years is typically included but is not limited to this.

As shown in the patent count per year in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Development Stage of the R D process. The patent count per year used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled Recent Patent Activity Chart. The purpose of Tool is to inform the project team and competitive intelligence of which companies to watch or investigate for ongoing activity in the project area. In addition the chart shows who has been active in the general project area.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent count per year to aid in the R D Development Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is in step . In the Preliminary Assessment Stage all years we included in the chart. Here only the last year is typically included but is not limited to this.

As shown in the patent count per year in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Scale up Stage of the R D process. The patent count per year used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled Recent Patent Activity Chart. The purpose of Tool is to inform the project team of which competitors to watch closely. In addition the chart shows the intensity of very recent effort in the project s environment. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent count per year to aid in the R D Scale up Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment Stage as described with reference to above.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the application count per year to facilitate the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool the Development Stage as Tool and the Scale up Stage as Tool .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all European applications but is not limited to this. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of applications. Control passes to step .

In step the group of applications patents produced in step are further divided into subgroups with each subgroup having the same assignee company. IPAM server may store the assignee information of applications in a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the assignee but is not limited to this. Control then passes to step .

In step each subgroup produced in step is further divided into subgroups by year where year is limited to the last four years. IPAM server may store the year information of applications in a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the year but is not limited to this. The flowchart ends at this point.

As shown in the application count per year in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Feasibility Stage of the R D process. In general the Feasibility Stage tests whether a concept is validated in the laboratory and with at least one lead customer. The application count per year used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled Recent Patent Application Chart. The purpose of Tool is to inform the project team of potential partners and competitors to watch. In addition the chart shows intensity of very recent effort in the project s environment.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the application count per year to aid in the R D Feasibility Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is in step . In the Preliminary Assessment Stage the last four years were included in the chart. Here only the last two years are typically included but it not limited to this.

As shown in the application count per year in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Development Stage of the R D process. The application count per year used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled Recent Patent Application Chart. The purpose of Tool is to inform the project team and competitive intelligence of which companies to watch for ongoing activity in the project area. In addition the chart shows who has been active in the general project area.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the application count per year to aid in the R D Development Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is in step . In the Preliminary Assessment Stage the last four years were included in the chart. Here only the last year is typically included but is not limited to this.

As shown in the application count per year in conjunction with IPAM server is also useful in the Scale up Stage of the R D process. The application count per year used in conjunction with IPAM server is shown in as Tool entitled Recent Patent Application Chart. The purpose of Tool is to inform the project team of potential partners and competitors to watch closely. In addition the chart shows the intensity of very recent efforts in the project s environment.

How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the application count per year to aid in the R D Scale up Stage is similar to how it works in the Preliminary Assessment Stage as described with reference to above. One exception is in step . In the Preliminary Assessment Stage the last four years were included in the chart. Here only the last year is typically included but is not limited to this.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the technology by company map to facilitate the Idea Stage as Tool the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool the Development Stage as Tool and the Scale up Stage as Tool .

In technology by company map as Tool is shown. The purpose of Tool in the Idea Stage is to provide the necessary information to the user e.g. inventor of the idea as to which competitors have put forth major effort in areas related to the idea. In addition Tool focuses on what areas are being explored by which companies. This provides more directed information because it visually displays patent counts of particular companies. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the technology by company map to aid in the R D Idea Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include European Japanese and other available patents and or applications. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step and further divides it into subgroups with each subgroup having the same patent classification. When the search in step is on the group of U.S. patents the classification used is the U.S. Patent Classification designated by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In a similar manner if the search in step is on the group of International patents then the classification used would be the IPC classification. IPAM server may store the U.S. Patent Classification or IPC classification in a meta data field that will also need to be searched to determine the patent classification but is not limited to this. Control then passes to step .

In step each subgroup produced in step is further divided by assignee company. Thus IPAM server is used in conjunction with a technology by company map to create a graphical representation of company and technical area by frequency. Typically this is done by the user selecting a technology by company function on the computer screen. The flowchart ends at this point.

Referring again to the chart produced by Tool tells the user several things. First it shows that companies like AT T Bell Laboratories and International Business Machines Corporation are active in the area of the idea but have a broader set of activity as represented by several patents in several different patent classifications . Companies like Westinghouse Electric Corporation appear to be targeting specific areas as represented by many patents in one patent classification .

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent citation tree to facilitate the Idea Stage as Tool the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool and the Development Stage as Tool . Citation trees are described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled Cross Reference to Other Patents and Applications. In general during an R D project the user can look at the patent citation tree to decide how crowded the area is and how quickly it is moving note that the icons can display dates relevant to the patents in the tree . The invention automatically displays contour maps that connect patents having the same dates assignees classifications etc. upon user command. In the map the greatest gradient is the highest change and so you can use that as a way to plot the velocity in different directions. Thus the contour lines can show the time line for the subject areas and how fast they are developing.

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. Here because the user is just pointing at a broad field the abstract of each U.S. patent is typically the section that is searched but is not limited to this. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include European Japanese and other available patents and or applications. Here the search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step and further performs a forward citation on each of the patents to create a patent citation tree . Forward citations are described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled Cross Reference to Other Patents and Applications. The nodes in the patent citation tree may be color coded by assignee to allow the user to pick out color patterns easily. The flowchart ends at this point.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the nested patent citation tree to facilitate the Idea Stage as Tool the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool the Development Stage as Tool and the Scale up Stage as Tool . Nested patent citation trees are described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled Cross Reference to Other Patents and Applications. In general during an R D project the user can look at the nested patent citation tree to promote his idea as distinct from other on going work. Patents lag the technology due to the inherent delays in patent prosecution. Thus if the user finds a very recent patent it may not have any forward citations since any patents that might cite it are months or years away from issuing. Thus it would not be possible to see how the technology is developing relative to this patent since it has no forward citations.

This tool utilizes a technique that involves going back one or more generations from a given patent and then performing forward citations on the prior generations. This identifies a patent family that is a result of a unique combination of backwards and forwards citation processing. The resulting tree tells you who s playing and in what fields that s probably around the base patent. It s an approach to look into the future of a given technology how the technology may develop in the future . Date contours or contours according to some other criteria is also applicable with this tool and with all hyperbolic trees generated by the invention .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include European Japanese and other available patents and or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step the IPAM server determines the prior generation patent of each patent produced in step e.g. goes back one citation for each patent . Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server takes the group of patents produced in step and further performs three forward citations on each of the patents to create a nested patent citation tree . The nodes in the patent citation tree may be color coded by assignee to allow the user to pick out color patterns easily. The flowchart ends at this point.

In IPAM server works in conjunction with the product patent revenue table to facilitate the Portfolio Stage as Tool . illustrates the product patent revenue table used in the Portfolio Stage as Tool entitled Proposed Features Map in the Context of all Possibilities. The purpose of Tool is make the proposed projects new features stand out from what exists today. Tool highlights distinctive features needed by customers. How the IPAM server works in conjunction with the product patent revenue table to aid in the Portfolio Stage is described with reference to .

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of company documents and patents but is not limited to this. This typically involves a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of documents and patents. Control passes to step .

In step the IPAM server sorts the resulting group of documents and patents from step by product attributes. The flowchart ends.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the patent months to issue chart to facilitate the Feasibility Stage as Tool the Development Stage as Tool the Scale up Stage as Tool and the Portfolio Stage as Tool . In general during an R D project the user can look at the patent months to issue chart to determine the average time that competitor s patents are in prosecution. Patents lag the technology due to the inherent delays in patent prosecution. Delays in prosecution may be different for different technologies. Therefore the user can also use the patent months to issue chart to get an idea on the prosecution time for different technologies. This also can help to predict the pace of certain technologies and what competitors are working on in their labs.

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the group of all U.S. patents. The present invention is not limited to doing the search on U.S. patents but may include European Japanese and other available patents and or applications. The search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server sorts the patents in the resulting group from step by year to create subgroups of patents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server for each patent in each of the subgroups created in step subtracts the patent s issue date from its filing date. Control then passes to step .

In step IPAM server calculates for each subgroup of patents the average prosecution time for its patents and displays the results to the user. Flowchart ends at this point.

Referring to IPAM server works in conjunction with the document annotation to facilitate the Idea Stage as Tool the Preliminary Assessment Stage as Tool the Feasibility Stage as Tool the Development Stage as Tool the Scale up Stage as Tool and the Portfolio Stage as Tool . Document annotation by IP server is described in detail in the patent and applications referenced above in the section entitled Cross Reference to Other Patents and Applications. In general during the different stages of an R D project the user can utilize the document notation to help create a document trail. For example in the Idea Stage any notes or annotations create by the user inventor for an idea will help to establish priority dates in the future as needed.

In a flowchart begins at step . In step in an embodiment of the present invention a user performs a search on the groups of patents and corporate documents but is not limited to this. The search performed is typically a boolean and or natural language search on the idea subject to produce a group of patents and or corporate documents. Control passes to step .

In step IPAM server allows the user to make annotations on one or more of the patents and or corporate documents in the group produced by step . Flowchart ends at this point.

One exception is that the initial search is conducted only on the group of corporate documents but is not limited to this.

It is important to note that most if not all of the tools or methods described above may be combined to interactively go back and forth between different tools. Note that in the Idea Stage a user may decided to combine or integrate one or more tools to facilitate the stage. For example once the group of patents from the search in step in is divided into subgroups in step in the user may use Tool to produce the topographic map and or Tool to produce the top company table or vice versa. The integration of tools discussed herein to facilitate the R D stages is limitless.

While various application embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments.

