---

title: Systems and methods for detecting entailment and contradiction
abstract: Techniques are provided for detecting entailment and contradiction. Packed knowledge representations for a premise and conclusion text are determined comprising facts about the relationships between concept and/or context denoting terms. Concept and context alignments are performed based on alignments scores. A union is determined. Terms are marked as to their origin and conclusion text terms replaced with by corresponding terms from the premise text. Subsumption and specificity, instantiability, spatio-temporal and relationship based packed rewrite rules are applied in conjunction with the context denoting facts to remove entailed terms and to mark contradictory facts within the union. Entailment is indicated by a lack of any facts from the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion in the union. Entailment and contradiction markers are then displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07313515&OS=07313515&RS=07313515
owner: Palo Alto Research Center Incorporated
number: 07313515
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060501
---
This invention was made with Government support under 2004 H892800 000 awarded by DST ATP. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

Entailment describes a relationship indicating that one element can be derived from another element. Entailment between texts is complicated since word order and word co occurrence can render a text susceptible to multiple readings. For example in English the placement of the same word or phrase at different locations within a sentence can result in several readings or interpretations. Some researchers have attempted to address these problems by encoding the text into packed knowledge representations. The packed knowledge representations provide an encoding of the multiple readings for the text within a single representation. Although packed knowledge representations can encode these multiple readings conventional linguistic processing still requires unpacking to detect entailment and contradiction.

Thus systems and methods for detecting entailment and contradiction in packed knowledge representations would be useful. The systems and methods according to this invention provide for operating on contexted unions of packed knowledge representations to detect entailment and contradiction. The systems and methods according to this invention determine packed structures for a premise and conclusion text. Rewrite rules are applied to the packed structures to determine packed knowledge representations. The knowledge representations comprise facts about the relationships between concept and or context denoting terms. Concept alignments for the packed structures are determined. Alignment of context denoting terms is also performed and a union of the premise and conclusion packed knowledge representations is determined. The terms of the union are marked as to their origin in the premise or conclusion text. Comparison between the terms in the premise and conclusion are facilitated by substituting the terms between the premise and conclusion using an alignment table or the like. Various embodiments according to this invention replace conclusion terms by corresponding terms from the premise. Subsumption and specificity instantiability spatio temporal and relationship based packed rewrite rules are applied in conjunction with the context denoting facts to remove entailed terms and to mark contradictory facts within the union.

In one exemplary embodiment a user of the communications enabled personal computer poses a question with respect to the document collection . The query is forwarded over the communications links to the entailment and contradiction detection system . The entailment and contradiction detection system acts as a proxy. It selects a sub set of documents relevant to the question using a first search. The relevant documents from the search results are retrieved over the communications links . The entailment and contradiction detection system determines whether any sentences in the relevant documents are entailed or contradicted by the question. That is the entailment and contradiction detection system determines entailment and contradiction between the packed structure associated with question and a plurality of packed structures associated with sentences or other structures within the search result documents .

For example in one embodiment the relevance or ranking of a document containing text entailed to the question is given increased prominence as more likely indicating a relevant answer to the question. The relevance of contradictory terms is similarly adjusted. The ranked search results are then optionally displayed to the user.

In step S the conclusion text is selected. In embodiments directed to question answering the conclusion text is generally a question posed by a user selected from a document or entered using any an input or selection method. Once the premise and conclusion texts have been determined control continues to step S.

The packed structures are determined for the premise and conclusion texts in step S. Packing is a way of compactly encoding a number of alternative representations. Determining packed structures is discussed further by J. Maxwell and R. Kaplan in A method for disjunctive constraint satisfaction in M. Tomita ed Current Issues in Parsing Technology Kluwer 1991 and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 438 511 both herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. A packed representation comprises a choice space and a choice labeled representation. The choice space is a Boolean and or tree detailing how the choice labels are related to one another. Each part of the representation is labeled to indicate the parts of the choice space in which the representation applies. For computational efficiency the choice space is maintained in a free choice form in which the satisfiability of any boolean combination of choice labels can efficiently be checked.

In embodiments utilizing the parsing system of the Xerox Linguistic Environment XLE the packed structures are packed f structures. However any known or later developed method of determining a packed structure for the texts may be used without departing from the spirit or scope of this invention. After the packed structures have been determined control continues to step S.

In step S packed knowledge representation rewrite rules are determined. The rules may be retrieved from a memory a database or other storage medium. The packed knowledge representation rewrite rules transform the packed structures into packed knowledge representations by cross referencing concepts contained within the packed structures to hierarchical ontologies such as WordNet and the like. Packed rewrite rules are of the form A B C D. This rule will inspect a set of input facts to see if there any facts matching A and B and ensure that there are no facts matching D. In each circumstance in which the match holds the matching A fact will be removed from the set of facts the B facts will be left in place and the D fact will be added. The rewrite rules are thus production rules that in general consume input matching the left hand side of the arrow to produce output matching right hand side. Packed rewriting systems apply these rules to packed sets of input facts to produce packed sets of output facts. Packed rewriting systems are discussed further by R. Crouch in Packed rewriting for mapping semantics to KR in Proc 6th International Workshop on Computational Semantics Tilburg The Netherlands 2005 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. After the packed knowledge representation rewrite rules have been determined control continues to step S.

The knowledge representation rewrite rules are applied to the packed structure to create packed knowledge representations in step S. The packed knowledge representations may be CycL Knowledge Machine DAML OIL or other knowledge representations. Once the packed knowledge representation has been created control continues to step S.

In step S concept alignments are determined for the packed knowledge representations. Alignment ensures that similar terms are compared between knowledge representations. In one exemplary embodiment the concepts are aligned by extracting terms from the premise and conclusion texts. Each term from the premise knowledge representation is paired with a term from the conclusion knowledge representation. Lists of synonyms and or hypernyms from WordNet or other ontologies are used to determine alignment scores for each term pairing. The alignment scores of pairs that exceed a threshold alignment score are selected as probable alignments. In question answering embodiments the information contained in the question or premise text may be exploited to refine or even determine the most probable term pairs. Probable term pairs are optionally ranked based on the number of roles with less probable term pairs considered later than more probable term pairs. After the concept alignments have been determined control continues to step S.

Context alignments are determined for each packed knowledge representation in step S. Context terms are associated with concepts and the method of pairing and ranking concept terms is applied to the context terms. After the context alignments have been determined control continues to step S.

In step S a set of entailment and contradiction detection packed rewrite rules is selected. The rules may be retrieved from a memory a database or any other storage structure. Once the rules have been determined control continues to step S.

The entailment and contradiction detection packed rewrite rules determined in step S are applied to the concept and context aligned packed knowledge representations in step S. A union of the premise and conclusion packed knowledge representations is determined. The packed entailment and contradiction rules determine subsumption cardinality instantiability and spatio tempo relations among the terms and facts of the packed knowledge representations that are capable of reduction or elimination.

One concept subsumes another if it refers to a more general class of objects. If the set of objects satisfying concept C includes the set of objects satisfying C then C subsumes C. Alternative terminology C is more specific than C C is more general than C. One formula subsumes another if it refers to a more general set of circumstances in which it holds true. Entailment is indicated by a lack of any facts from the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion in the union after applying the packed entailment and contradiction detection rules.

Contradiction markers are added to indicate contradictory terms in the packed knowledge representation. Where the conclusion text indicates a question a premise text might be a candidate answer to the question. If the premise or candidate answer text is entailed then it is more likely to be a positive answer to the question. Thus in various embodiments a conventional tf idf search is applied to initially select texts. Entailment and contradiction detection are applied to rank and or order the search results. Texts in the search results that are marked as neither entailed nor contradictory are eliminated from consideration in the ranking. The re ranked results are then returned to the user. After detecting entailment and contradiction control continues to step S and the process ends.

In step S subconcept terms are added to the chart for each concept. WordNet or other ontological resources are used to determine a set of subconcepts based on hypernym lists associated with each term. In various other embodiments the subconcepts are derived from external systems such as Cyc or the like. After adding the subconcept terms to the premise and conclusion charts control continues to step S.

Sub concept terms are added to the premise and conclusion charts for each context term in step S. Each context term is associated with a characteristic concept term typically derived from the verb that heads the clause introducing the context. The sub context for the associated head concept term is used to mark the context term. After the sub concept terms have been added for each context term control continues to step S.

In step S a set of alignment scores for terms in the premise packed knowledge representation are computed against terms in the conclusion packed knowledge representation. The alignment scores indicate the degree to which the terms conceptually overlap. Thus in an embodiment utilizing the WordNet ontology the overlap between a set of hypernyms associated with a term from the premise packed knowledge representation and a set of hypernyms associated with a term from the conclusion packed knowledge representation is used to determine a pair alignment score. Weighting of the overlapping items and other methods can also be used to determine and or further adjust the alignment scores. After the alignment scores have been determined control continues to step S.

Sets of term pairs are selected based on their alignment scores in step S. In various embodiments a threshold value is determined from user input or retrieved from memory. Terms pairs associated with alignment scores above the threshold value are selected as aligned term pairs. Each set of term pairings will align every concept or context term from the premise text with some concept or context term from the conclusion text. Multiple sets of alignments are possible and alignment sets are ranked in a best first order determined by the alignment scores of the individual term pairings. After the term pairs have been selected control continues to step S and immediately jumps to step S of .

In step S each term from the conclusion text is paired with a term from the premise text starting with the individual term pairing that has the best alignment score. With the exception of terms derived from either proper names or pronouns no two distinct terms from the premise text can be paired with the same term from the conclusion text. Individual alignments falling below the threshold alignment score value are excluded. Control then continues to step S and immediately returns step S of .

In step S the terms are ordered based on the number of roles. Thus terms with a larger number of roles are selected first. After the terms have been ordered control continues to step S where the values of the arguments of each clause are determined. Control then continues to step S.

Each term with multiple role arguments in the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion is paired with a term in the packed knowledge representation of the premise in step S. The role facts for the paired terms are matched. For any role facts that match the corresponding role argument terms in the premise and conclusion packed knowledge representations are also paired. Control then continues to step S.

In step S a final best pass assigns remaining unaligned terms. Control then continues to step S and immediately returns to step S of .

Facts from the premise and conclusion packed knowledge representations are labeled to explicitly mark whether the fact is from the premise or conclusion representation in step S. The facts originating in the premise text are marked with a premise representation marker while facts originating in the conclusion text are marked with a conclusion representation marker. After the facts have been marked control continues to step S.

In step S the facts and contexts marked as originating from the conclusion packed knowledge representation are replaced by the aligned terms originating from the premise packed knowledge representation as determined by the set of alignments selected in step S. Control then continues to step S.

The union of the facts and choice space of the premise and conclusion concept and context aligned packed knowledge representations is determined in step S. Forming unions of packed knowledge representations is further discussed inco assigned co pending application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 338 846 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 171 403 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. After the union has been determined control continues to step S.

In step S any subsumption relations that exist between terms in the content and context aligned packed knowledge representations are determined. The subsumption relations identify terms originating in the conclusion packed knowledge representation that are subsumed within a term originating in the packed knowledge representation of the premise. After the subsumption relations have been determined control continues to step S. The subsumption relation facts are then substituted into the union of the premise and conclusion packed knowledge representations. The subconcept terms originating in the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion are replaced by the facts of the subsumption relation. These operations reduce the number of terms from the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion in the union. After the subconcept facts and roles have been replaced control continues to step S.

Instantiability relations in the concept and context aligned packed knowledge representation are determined in step S. For example to say that a particular concept term is instantiable in a certain context is to assert the existence of some object satisfying the terms concept description. To say that a concept term is uninstantiable in a context is to say that there is no such object in that context that satisfies the term s concept description. After the instantiability relations have been determined control continues to step S.

In step S instantiable and uninstantiable facts originating in the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion are removed based on the instantiability rules. The instantiability rules determine for example that the instantiability of a more specific term entails the instantiability of a more general term and the uninstantiability of a more general term contradicts the instantiability of a more specific term. Entailed instantiability and uninstantiability originating from the packed representation of the conclusion are removed by the instantiability rules. Contradicted instantiability and uninstantiability facts are marked as such. Control then continues to step S.

A determination is made as to whether any terms from the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion remain in the union in step S. If any terms remain control immediately continues to step S an indication is then made to the user that the conclusion text is not entailed by the premise text. Otherwise if no terms remain control continues to step S where entailment is indicated to the user. In various exemplary embodiments dynamic indication to the user is accomplished via changes to the user s display or output device. However it will be apparent that entailment indicators may be stored in memory for asnychronous indication to the user or used under programmatic control without departing from the scope of this invention. After any entailment is indicated control continues to step S.

In step S a determination is made as to whether any additional packed knowledge representations remain. If additional packed knowledge representation pairs remain control continues to step S where the next pair of content and context aligned knowledge representation terms is selected. Control then jumps immediately to step S. Steps S S repeat until no additional content and context aligned packed knowledge representation term pairs remain to be processed. Control then continues to step S and returns immediately to step S of .

It should be apparent that the packed knowledge representations for multiple texts may be determined previously or dynamically as required without departing from the scope of this invention.

The user of the communications enabled personal computer initiates a query against the document collection served by the information repository . The query is forwarded over the communications links to the information repository . The information repository selects the documents relevant to the query using term frequency inverse document frequency and or other information retrieval systems. The search results are then forwarded to the input output circuit of the entailment and contradiction detection system .

The processor of the entailment and detection system activates the packed memory determination circuit or manager to determine packed structures associated with the query and each retrieved search result. The processor activates the optional packed knowledge representation circuit or manager to determine a packed knowledge representation using packed rewrite rules.

The concept alignment circuit or manager is activated to align the concept facts between the packed knowledge representation for the query expressed as a possible conclusion and the packed knowledge representation for the first search result or premise. The context alignment circuit or manager aligns the context of the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion and the first premise. The concept alignment circuit or manager ensures that similar terms are compared between packed knowledge representations. Each term from the premise knowledge representation is paired with a term from the conclusion knowledge representation. Lists of synonyms and or hypernyms from WordNet or other ontologies are used to determine alignment scores for each term pairing.

The alignment scores of pairs that exceed a threshold alignment score are selected as probable alignments. In question answering embodiments the information contained in the conclusion or question text is exploited to determine the most probable term pairs. Probable term pairs are optionally ranked based on the number of roles with less probable term pairs considered later than more probable term pairs.

The processor forms the union of the facts and choice space for the packed representations of the conclusion and the premise and marks each term with its origin. The context terms are then associated with concepts. The method of pairing and ranking concept terms is then also applied to the context terms.

The terms originating in the conclusion are substituted with corresponding terms from the premise. The entailment contradiction circuit or manager retrieves the entailment contradiction rules from the entailment contradiction rule memory and applies them to the union.

The packed entailment and contradiction rules determine subsumption cardinality instantiability and spatio tempo relations among the terms and facts of the packed knowledge representations capable of reduction or elimination. When each fact of the conclusion knowledge representation has been removed entailment is indicated. Contradiction markers are added to indicate contradictory terms in the packed knowledge representation. The processor activates the display circuit to indicate the entailment and the contradictions. The process is then repeated between the conclusion and each additional search result as subsequent premises. In various embodiments according to this invention the entailment and contradiction information is used to adjust the prominence of the documents in the search results. The processor activates the input output circuit to forward the re ranked search results to the user of communications enabled computer over communications links .

The first three rows of the exemplary data structure for storing packed knowledge indicate that a seeing event was experienced by a person. A temporal relation specifies the event occurs before now. The role relations specify in general terms that a seeing event took place that what was seen was some kind of man and that the event was experienced by some kind of a person. The next three rows specify the context for the information. In particular the values context cx see 3 and context t specify a first context called cx see 3 and a second true context. The sixth row specifies that the two contexts are incompatible. By implication cx see 3 is the negative context.

The seventh through ninth rows claims instantiability for the terms man 5 person 0 and see 3 in the cx see 3 context. The seeing event see 3 is claimed to be uninstantiable in the t context. The rows eleven through thirteen contain facts associating lists of WordNet synonyms sets with the constants man 5 person 0 and see 3 . In various other embodiments other ontologies can be used without departing from the spirit or scope of this invention.

The detection that the packed knowledge representation of the first exemplary sentence entails the packed knowledge representation of the second exemplary sentence is based on noticing that if there is no event of a person seeing a man then there is no more specific event of a person seeing a man by means of a telescope reading A1 nor is there any event of a person seeing a more specific kind of man in possession of a telescope reading A2 . In terms of the two packed knowledge representations shown above it can be shown that the concept see 13 of the packed knowledge representation associated with the second exemplary sentence is more specific than the corresponding see 3 concept in the packed knowledge representation associated with the first exemplary sentence. In reading A1 there is an additional role restriction on see 13 that is absent for see 3 . In reading A2 there is no additional role on see 13 but one of its arguments man 15 has an additional role restricting it to a more specific concept. From these specificity relations see 13 as or more specific than see 3 man 15 as or more specific than man 5 it can be reasoned as follows. The aligned contexts cx see 3 and cx see 13 are downward monotone meaning that a more general instantiability entails a more specific instantiability. Thus all the instantiability claims for cx see 13 are entailed by those in cx see 3 including that for the telescope 16 concept not even mentioned in cx see 3 .

In contrast t is an upward monotone context where a more specific instantiabilities imply more general ones and b more general uninstantiabilities imply more specific ones. Thus the uninstantiability of see 13 in cx see 13 is entailed by the uninstantiability of see 3 in cx see 3 . This means that all the instantiability and uninstantiability assertions in the packed knowledge representation associated with the second exemplary sentence are entailed by those in the packed knowledge representation associated with the first exemplary sentence. The temporal relations in the two representations are identical other than renaming of aligned constants and so are mutually entailing. Hence everything in the packed knowledge representation associated with the second sentence is entailed by the packed knowledge representation associated with the first exemplary sentence.

The terms portion of the first row contains the value t indicating the alignment score values for the true context. The scores portion contains the value pairs 1.0 t and 0.0 cx see 3 . These values indicate a high alignment score between the true context in the packed knowledge representation of the premise and the true context in the packed knowledge representation of the conclusion. However a low alignment score is indicated between the t context of the packed knowledge representation of the premise and the cx see 3 context.

The fifth row contains the value cx see 13 in the term portion and the values 0.8 cx see 3 and 0.0 t in the scores portion . This indicates alignment between the cx see 13 context and the cx see 3 alignment is preferred. The contextual alignment allows the systems and methods of this invention to exploit the monotonicity constraints or relationships in determining entailment and contradiction.

The second row contains the value see 13 in the term portion and the values 1.0 see 3 0.0 person 0 0.0 man 5 . These value indicate a preferred alignment between the concepts see 13 and see 3 . The third row indicates equally preferred alignments between the concept man 15 and person 0 and person 5 the fourth row equally preferred alignments between person 10 and person 0 and man 5 . The sixth row indicates that the concept telescope 16 is not aligned with either person 0 man 5 or see 3 since each alignment score is below the exemplary threshold alignment score value of 0.5 .

Some rules of inference are applied based on the terms specificity montonicity and existence instantiability assertions. For example the packed rewrite entailment and contradiction rules provide for recognizing 1 if term p is more specific than term c then in an upward monotone context the existence of term c is entailed by the existence of term p. Rewrite rules recognize this configuration and remove the existence assertion for term c. Removal of this assertion is motivated by the fact that if the assertion is entailed by the premise representation it can be removed without loss of information 2 if term p is less specific than term c then in a downward monotone context the existence of term c is entailed by the existence of term p. Rewrite rules recognize this configuration and remove the existence assertion for term c 3 if term p is less specific than term c then in an upward monotone context the non existence of term p contradicts the existence of term c. Rewrite rules recognize this configuration and instead of removing the existence assertion for term c they set a flag indicating that a contradiction has been found.

The first row of the exemplary data structure for storing term pair scores contains the value 1 in the index portion and the value t t see 13 see 3 man 15 person 0 person 10 man 5 cx see 13 cx see 3 telescope 16 NULL in the pairing portion. This indicates proposed pair terms for the entailment detection. In various exemplary embodiments according this invention the pairings are scored or ranked by various methods. For example in some embodiments the format of a conclusion text that is a question informs the selection of the most likely term pairings for the answer to the question.

Initially the exemplary data structure for storing content and context aligned packed knowledge representation is formed from the union of the packed knowledge representation for the premise and packed knowledge representation of he conclusion. The terms are marked with respect to their origin and the entailment and contradiction rules are applied.

If no conclusion terms remain after the entailment and contradiction rules have been applied to the content and context aligned packed knowledge representation entailment is indicated to the user. Otherwise a lack of entailment is indicated to the user. Contradictions are similarly detected marked and indicated to the user.

For example subsumption specificity rules base subconcept assignments on concept inclusions role restrictions from argument structure cardinality and the like. Thus terms man 5 person 0 and see 3 occur in both the premise and the term substituted conclusion. They have identical assignments in both. Thus the initial judgment is that the terms mutually subsume in the premise and conclusion. Role restrictions are used to further refine this initial assessment. In the top level choice see 3 has an additional conclusion role with telescope 16 . This means that in the A1 top level choice see 3 is more specific in the conclusion. In regard to top level choice A2 man 5 has an additional conclusion role making it more specific in the conclusion. Man 5 is a role restriction on see 3 which means that A2 see 3 is also more specific in the conclusion. Thus all subsumption and role facts are eliminated and replaced by the exemplary set of subsumption facts .

Instantiability rules are then applied to determine the consequences of these specificity relations on instantiability claims. For an upward monotone context instantiability of a specific concept entails instantiability of a more general concept uninstantiability of a general concept entails uninstantiability of a more specific concept instantiability of a specific concept contradicts uninstantiability of a more general concept and vice versa. For downward monotone contexts the relations are reversed. The top level context t is upward monotone. The embedded context cx see 3 is recognized as being downward motonone through being linked to t via the context relation not . Rules encoding the instantiability relations eliminate all the instantiable and uninstantiable facts for the conclusion. When all the conclusion facts have been eliminated the premise entails the conclusion.

The first row of the exemplary data structure for storing packed rewrite rules contains the values 1 SUBSUMPTION and Q subconcept Sk QConcept P subconcept Sk PConcept QConcept PConcept prelim more specific Sk P . 

The 1 value in the optional index portion indicates the number of the rule within the system providing a human readable label for the rule. Any unique identifier can be used as the index value. The SUBSUMPTION value in the optional type portion indicates the category or function of the rule. The value in the rule portion is composed of pattern and action portions separated by the indicator. If the pattern on the left hand side of the separation indicator is identified the action on the right hand side of the separator indicator is performed. The left hand side of the rule looks for a concept term Sk that is marked by an input facts as having the associated subconcept QConcept in the query Q and is also marked by another input fact as having the associated subconcept PConcept in the premise P . A test is made to see is QConcept is more specific the PConcept. If the test succeeds then the two matching input facts are removed and a new fact added to the output prelim more specific Sk P . This states that the term Sk has preliminarily been judged to denote a more specific concept in the premise P. The rule is activated by all pairs of input facts that match the left hand side.

The second row contains the value 2 in the index portion . This is a human readable unique reference number for accessing the rule. The type portion of the second row contains the value SUBSUMPTION . This indicates the classification or type of the rule in a human accessible format. The rule portion contains the value Q subconcept Sk QConcept P subconcept Sk PConcept QConcept PConcept prelim more specific Sk mutual . The left hand side of the rule looks for input facts saying that some term Sk is associated with the same concept QConcept PConcept is both Query and Premise and replace the facts with an assertion that the term denotes mutually specific concepts in query and passage.

The third row contains the value 3 in the index portion indicating the human readable reference number for the rule. The type portion contains the value ROLE RESTRICTION indicating that the rule is classified as a type of rule affecting role restrictions in the packed knowledge representations. The rule portion contains the value prelim more specific Sk PM member PM P mutual P role Sk Q role Sk more specific Sk P . This matches a term Sk that i has already been judged to be preliminarily more specific either mutually or in the premise ii which has some further role restriction fact in the premise but iii does not have any role restriction facts in the query. When the left hand side of the rule matches a fact asserting that the term is more specific in the premise is added and the preliminary judgment of specificity removed.

The fourth row contains the value 4 in the index portion indicating the human readable reference number for the rule. The type portion contains the value ROLE RESTRICTION indicating that the rule is classified as a type of rule affecting role restrictions in the packed knowledge representations. The rule portion contains the value prelim more specific Sk P P role Sk Q role Sk 0 This matches a fact stating that term Sk has been preliminarily judged to be more specific in the Premise that Sk has no role restrictions in the Premise but that it does have some role restrictions in the query. Under these circumstances no judgment can be made about whether Sk is more less or equally specific in premise or query. The prelim more specific Sk P and Q role Sk facts are removed from the input and nothing is added in their place.

The fifth row contains the value 5 in the index portion indicating the human readable reference number for the rule. The type portion contains the value INSTANTIATION indicating that the rule is classified as a type of rule affecting instantiations in the packed knowledge representations. The rule portion contains the value more specific Sk P P instantiable Sk Ctx Q instantiable Sk Ctx 0. This matches a term Sk that is more specific in the premise and is marked as being instantiable in context Ctx in both premise and query. The instantiability of the more specific concept in the premise entails the instantiability of the more general concept in the query so the query instantiability fact can be removed as being entailed.

The sixth row contains the value 6 in the index portion indicating the human readable reference number for the rule. The type portion contains the value INSTANTIATION indicating that the rule is classified as a type of rule affecting instantiations in the packed knowledge representations. The rule portion contains the value more specific Sk P P instantiable Sk Ctx Q uninstantiable Sk Ctx contradiction Term Sk is more specific in the premise is instantiable in context Ctx in the premise but uninstantiable in Ctx in the query. This indicates a contradiction and this is flaged by adding a new contradiction fact to the output

The seventh row contains the value 7 in the index portion indicating the human readable reference number for the rule. The type portion contains the value CLEANUP indicating that the rule is classified as a type of rule affecting cleanup processing in the packed knowledge representations. The rule portion contains the value Q Fact P Fact 0. This rule applies after entailments and contradictions through specificity and instantiability have been determined. At this stage if the same facts occur in both query and premise the query fact can be removed as possibly entailed. If the query fact is not actually entailed then there will be some remaining query facts about concept specificity and instantiability to ensure that the query will not accidentally come to be judged as entailed by the premise.

The eighth row contains the value 8 in the index portion indicating the human readable reference number for the rule. The type portion contains the value CLEANUP indicating that the rule is classified as a type of rule affecting cleanup processing in the packed knowledge representations. The rule portion contains the value Q in context C1 Fact P in context C2 Fact anti veridical C1 C2 contradiction. This detects identical facts in premise and query but where those facts are asserted to hold in contradictory anti veridical contexts. In such cases a contradiction fact is added to the output.

The rules illustrated above are examples of a wider set of rules that could be defined and applied to detect entailment and contradiction

In the various embodiments of the entailment and contradiction detection system each of the circuits outlined above can be implemented as portions of a suitably programmed general purpose computer. Alternatively of the entailment and contradiction detection system outlined above can be implemented as physically distinct hardware circuits within an ASIC or using a FPGA a PDL a PLA or a PAL or using discrete logic elements or discrete circuit elements. The particular form each of the circuits of the entailment and contradiction detection system outlined above will take is a design choice and will be obvious and predictable to those skilled in the art.

Moreover the entailment and contradiction detection system and or each of the various circuits discussed above can each be implemented as software routines managers or objects executing on a programmed general purpose computer a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In this case the entailment and contradiction detection system and or each of the various circuits discussed above can each be implemented as one or more routines embedded in the communications network as a resource residing on a server or the like. The entailment and contradiction detection system and the various circuits discussed above can also be implemented by physically incorporating the entailment and contradiction detection system into software and or hardware system such as the hardware and software systems of a web server or a client device.

As shown in memory and entailment contradictions rule memory can be implemented using any appropriate combination of alterable volatile or non volatile memory or non alterable or fixed memory. The alterable memory whether volatile or non volatile can be implemented using any one or more of static or dynamic RAM a floppy disk and disk drive a write able or rewrite able optical disk and disk drive a hard drive flash memory or the like. Similarly the non alterable or fixed memory can be implemented using any one or more of ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM an optical ROM disk such as a CD ROM or DVD ROM disk and disk drive or the like.

The communication links shown in can each be any known or later developed device or system for connecting a communication device to the entailment and contradiction detection system including a direct cable connection a connection over a wide area network or a local area network a connection over an intranet a connection over the Internet or a connection over any other distributed processing network or system. In general the communication links can be any known or later developed connection system or structure usable to connect devices and facilitate communication.

Further it should be appreciated that the communication links can be wired or wireless links to a network. The network can be a local area network a wide area network an intranet the Internet or any other distributed processing and storage network.

While this invention has been described in conjunction with the exemplary embodiments outlined above it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the exemplary embodiments of the invention as set forth above are intended to be illustrative not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

