---

title: Surfactant-free dispersions, compositions, and use in topical formulations
abstract: The present invention provides for the preparation of stable surfactant-free dispersions of hydrophobic substances in low viscosity hydrophilic glyceryl polyacrylate or glyceryl polymethacrylate fluids, and topical vehicles formulated with the dispersions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08128947&OS=08128947&RS=08128947
owner: DPT Laboratories, Ltd.
number: 08128947
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061011
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 725 373 filed Oct. 11 2005 the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the preparation of surfactant free dispersions comprising a low viscosity hydrophilic continuous phase and the use of such dispersions in topical formulations. In certain aspects the present invention is directed to stable surfactant free dispersions of hydrophobic substances in low viscosity hydrophilic glyceryl polyacrylate or glyceryl polymethacrylate fluids and topical vehicles formulated with such ingredients.

Topical formulations generally have to combine multiple and sometimes competing attributes such as those relating to aesthetics stability delivery and compatibility. In regard to aesthetics topical formulations are generally required to display appropriate tactile and visual properties when applied to the skin. Such formulations should also maintain functionality in regard to the delivery of various active agents onto or into the skin. Stability requirements apply both to individual ingredients e.g. active agents as well as to more gross aspects of the product form such as precipitation or potential separation of phases. Compatibility constraints generally require that a formulation can be applied to the skin without eliciting a significant adverse reaction such as an allergic or irritant response.

Formulations range from aqueous based solutions and gels to anhydrous vehicles. Simple aqueous based vehicles have limitations in regard to both solubility and stability of active agents and can have poor tactile properties. Anhydrous vehicles have limitations in regard to desirable aesthetic properties. Emulsions are often employed in skin formulations to obviate such problems. An emulsion is a dispersion comprising two immiscible liquid phases wherein one phase a non continuous phase is dispersed into the continuous phase. The two basic types of such dispersions usually comprise either a hydrophilic e.g. aqueous dispersed phase in a hydrophobic continuous phase water in oil or a hydrophobic dispersed phase in a hydrophilic continuous phase oil in water .

Emulsions are generally made by preparing separate hydrophobic and hydrophilic phases and mixing the two together. This is generally accomplished with the use of one or more emulsifying agents which reduce the surface tension between the immiscible phases creating micelles i.e. a surfactant effect thereby making the dispersion physically stable. However surfactants have long been known to be associated with skin irritation and comprise the majority of adverse skin reaction to personal care products e.g. Barany et al. 1999 Bodin et al. 2000 Effendy Maibach 1995 .

Low viscosity dispersions are advantageous in that they can be readily processed through various mixers mills and homogenizing equipment in order to produce a stable dispersion without the build up of excessive heat which can occur when processing high viscosity gel like dispersions due to friction. Low viscosity dispersions can spread and absorb easily into the skin and impart a characteristic light feel. However the omission of surfactants from low viscosity dispersions would be expected to result in physical instability of the dispersed phase i.e. phase separation in contrast to high viscosity dispersions wherein the gel like consistency physically stabilizes the dispersed particles.

The present invention overcomes the deficiencies in the art by providing surfactant free dispersions suitable for formulating topical preparations. The removal of surfactants will generally enhance cutaneous compatibility of topical preparations. For instance skin irritation can be reduced or prevented. An additional benefit of the dispersions and compositions of the present invention is the reduction in manufacturing costs by excluding surfactants and detergents from the dispersions and compositions of the present invention.

In one aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a dispersion comprising a hydrophobic dispersed phase in a hydrophilic fluid continuous phase. The hydrophilic continuous phase can include glyceryl polyacrylate or glyceryl polymethacrylate or mixtures of the two. A unique aspect of the dispersion is that it is surfactant free and stable. Stated another way no surfactants are needed to obtain a stable dispersion of the present invention. In certain embodiments the dispersion comprises from about 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 to about 99 or any range or integer derivable therein by weight of the glyceryl polyacrylate. In other aspects the dispersion can include from about 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 to about 99 or any range or integer derivable therein by weight of the glyceryl polymethacrylate. The viscosity of the hydrophilic fluid can range from about 20 to about 1600 cps. In certain aspects the viscosity of the hydrophilic fluid is 20 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 850 900 950 1000 1050 1100 1150 1200 1250 1300 1350 1400 1450 1500 1550 1600 cps or any range or integer derivable therein.

In certain aspects the dispersion can include from about 15 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 to about 99 or any range or integer derivable therein by weight of the hydrophobic dispersed phase. The hydrophobic phase can include a plant animal paraffinic or synthetic derived fat butter grease solvent wax or oil or mixtures thereof. The hydrophobic phase can include a non volatile silicone a mineral oil a vegetable oil a water insoluble organic ester a water insoluble triglyceride or a fluorinated compound or mixtures thereof. In other embodiments the hydrophobic dispersed phase can be a liquid and or can have a melting point below 25 C. In other aspects the melting point can be below 24 C. 23 C. 22 C. 21 C. 20 C. 19 C. 18 C. 17 C. 16 C. 15 C. 14 C. 13 C. 12 C. 11 C. 10 C. 9 C. 8 C. 7 C. 6 C. 5 C. 4 C. 3 C. 2 C. or 1 C. In certain aspects the hydrophobic dispersed phase does not include a wax.

The dispersion of the present invention can also include water a polyol or mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of polyols include glycerin propylene glycol butylene glycol or pentylene glycol or mixtures thereof. The dispersion can be incorporated into a vehicle. The vehicle can be a cosmetic or pharmaceutical vehicle. The vehicle can be formulated for topical application to skin. The vehicle can be a lotion a cream a gel an ointment a serum a liquid a fluid a non aerosol spray an aerosol spray a non aerosol foam or an aerosol foam. In certain embodiments the dispersion is comprised in a cosmetic skin care product.

In another embodiment of the present invention the inventors disclose a surfactant free topical vehicle that includes a dispersion of the present invention. By way of example the topical vehicle can include a cosmetic ingredient or a pharmaceutical active agent or mixtures thereof. The term cosmetic ingredient includes but is not limited to rheology modifiers and cosmetic active agents. Non limiting examples of cosmetic ingredients include preservatives colorants fragrances pH adjusters antioxidants chelating agents absorbents exfoliants humectants skin lightening agents waterproofing agents skin conditioning agents or mixtures thereof. The topical vehicle can include a rheology modifier. Non limiting examples of rheology modifiers include sodium polyacrylate carbomer natural gum natural gum derivative clay modified clay cellulose cellulose derivative magnesium aluminum silicate gellan gum xanthan gum starch and modified starch or mixtures thereof. In certain non limiting embodiments the topical vehicle can be a lotion cream gel ointment serum liquid fluid non aerosol spray aerosol spray non aerosol foam or aerosol foam. The topical vehicle can have a pH of from about 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 to about 11 or any range or integer derivable therein.

Also disclosed is a method of topically delivering a pharmaceutical or cosmetic ingredient to skin comprising contacting the skin of a subject e.g. animals and humans or persons with a topical vehicle of the present invention. The method can include applying the topical vehicle or compositions of the present invention to skin at least once twice three four five six seven eight nine or more times a day as needed. In certain non limiting aspects the topical vehicle or compositions of the present invention can be incorporated into clothes wound dressings bandages gauzes and the like.

Another aspect of the present invention includes a method of preparing a surfactant free topical vehicle. The method can include admixing a hydrophobic phase with a low viscosity hydrophilic phase comprising a glyceryl polyacrylate or glyceryl polymethacrylate fluid to obtain a stable dispersion. The stable dispersion can then be combined with an additional non surfactant ingredient such as a cosmetic or pharmaceutical ingredient. The admixing can be performed by methods and apparatuses known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to mechanical mixers mills dispersers and homogenizers.

It is contemplated that any embodiment discussed in this specification can be implemented with respect to any method or composition of the invention and vice versa. Furthermore compositions of the invention can be used to achieve methods of the invention.

The term dispersion refers to a suspension of liquid semi solid or solid particles of colloidal size or larger in a liquid medium. In various embodiments the particle size can range from about 50 nanometers to about 1000 microns. In typical embodiments the suspended particles contain one or more hydrophobic materials.

The phrase stable dispersion means a dispersion that is physically stable by visual examination for at least about 5 days.

The term fluid means a low viscosity liquid. Low viscosity means a viscosity of from about 20 to about 1600 cps as measured by a BROOKFIELD RV model viscometer using a 3 spindle at 50 rpm at 25 C.

The use of the word a or an when used in conjunction with the term comprising in the claims and or the specification may mean one but it is also consistent with the meaning of one or more at least one and one or more than one. 

Throughout this application the terms about and approximately indicate that a value includes the inherent variation of error for the device the method being employed to determine the value or the variation that exists among the study subjects. In one non limiting embodiment the terms are defined to be within 10 preferably within 5 more preferably within 1 and most preferably within 0.5 .

The use of the term or in the claims is used to mean and or unless explicitly indicated to refer to alternatives only or the alternatives are mutually exclusive although the disclosure supports a definition that refers to only alternatives and and or. 

As used in this specification and claim s the words comprising and any form of comprising such as comprise and comprises having and any form of having such as have and has including and any form of including such as includes and include or containing and any form of containing such as contains and contain are inclusive or open ended and do not exclude additional unrecited elements or method steps.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples while indicating specific embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

One aspect of the present invention provides for stable dispersions of hydrophobic substances in low viscosity hydrophilic glyceryl polyacrylate or glyceryl polymethacrylate fluids. Further aspects provide for the use of the stable dispersions of the invention in topical vehicles and methods of delivering pharmaceutical and cosmetic active agents in such topical vehicles. These and other aspects of the present invention are described in further detail below.

For the purposes of the present invention the term surfactants means those compounds or mixture of compounds recognized by one of ordinary skill in the art as surfactants and emulsifiers useful in formulating topical preparations such as emulsions. Examples of such surfactants can be found in McCutcheon s Emulsifiers and Detergents 2001 under Surfactants and examples include but are not limited to the following the CTFA INCI name is denoted in parentheses for reference block polymers e.g. PLURONIC L44 Poloxamer 124 ethoxylated alcohols e.g. BRIJ 52 Ceteth 2 EUMULGIN B 2 Ceteareth 20 GENAPOL 26 L3 Laureth 3 ethoxylated fatty esters and oils e.g. CREMOPHOR RH 40 PEG 40 Hydrogenated Castor Oil EMULSOGEN EL PEG 36 Castor Oil RITAPEG 150 DS PEG 150 Distearate glycerol esters e.g. EMEREST 2452 Polyglyceryl 3 Diisostearate CREMOPHOR GS 11 Glyceryl Stearate glycol esters ALKAMULS 600 DO PEG 12 Dioleate LEXEMUL P Propylene Glycol Stearate SE phosphate esters e.g. HOSTAPHAT CC 100 Cetyl Phosphate polymeric surfactants e.g. GANTREZ AN 119 PVM MA Copolymer GANTREZ S 95 PVM MA Copolymer PEMULIN TR 1 Acrylates C10 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer PEMULIN TR 2 Acrylates C10 30 Alkyl Acrylate Crosspolymer quaternary surfactants e.g. DEHYQUART A Cetrimonium Chloride Silicone Based Surfactants e.g. ABIL B 88183 PEG PPG 20 6 Dimethicone Sorbitan Derivatives e.g. ARLACEL 60 Sorbitan Stearate TWEEN 60 Polysorbate 60 sucrose and glucose esters and derivatives e.g. GLUCAMATE SSE 20 PEG 20 Methyl Glucose Sesquistearate and sulfates of alcohols e.g. STEPANOL WA 100 Sodium Lauryl Sulfate . More generally surfactants can be classified by their ionic type such as anionic cationic nonionic or amphoteric. They can also be classified by their chemical structures such as block polymers ethoxylated alcohols ethoxylated fatty esters and oils glycerol esters glycol esters phosphate esters polymeric surfactants quaternary surfactants silicone based surfactants sorbitan derivatives sucrose and glucose esters and derivatives and sulfates of alcohols. In that a formulation is surfactant free such surfactants are not included as ingredients.

The stable dispersion of the present invention comprises a hydrophobic dispersed phase and a low viscosity hydrophilic glyceryl polyacrylate or glyceryl polymethacrylate continuous phase.

A low viscosity glyceryl polyacrylate or glyceryl polymethacrylate fluid provides the hydrophilic continuous phase of the stable dispersions of the present invention. In some embodiments the hydrophilic fluid further comprises water a polyol or mixtures thereof. In various embodiments the polyol is glycerin propylene glycol butylene glycol or pentylene glycol or mixtures thereof. As noted above low viscosity means a viscosity of from about 20 to about 1600 cps as measured by a BROOKFIELD RV model viscometer using a 3 spindle at 50 rpm at 25 C. In various embodiments the viscosity of the hydrophilic fluid is from about 400 cps to about 1600 cps or is from about 500 cps to about 1200 cps or is about 400 cps or is about 500 cps or is about 600 cps or about 700 cps or about 800 cps or about 900 cps or about 1000 cps or about 1100 cps or about 1200 cps or about 1300 cps or about 1400 cps or about 1500 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 400 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 500 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 600 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 700 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 800 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 900 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 1000 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 1100 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 1200 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 1300 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 1400 cps or is from about 20 cps to about 1500 cps.

A suitable commercially available glyceryl polyacrylate fluid is HISPAGEL Oil LV manufactured by Cognis Iberia S.L. Spain and distributed by Centerchem Inc. Norwalk Conn. which is a mixture of glyceryl polyacrylate glycerin and water and is supplied with a viscosity in the range of 500 1200 cps. HISPAGEL Oil LV does not contain surfactants. It should be noted that other commercially available materials such as LUBRAJEL Oil manufactured by ISP Corp GRANHYDROGEL 0 manufactured by Grant Industries and CREAGEL Oil manufactured by Cosmetics Innovations and Technologies Sarl which contain either glyceryl polyacrylate or glyceryl polymethacrylate all include the commonly known surfactant PVM MA Copolymer. Thus formulations made with these materials would not be surfactant free.

Suitable glyceryl polyacrylate and glyceryl polymethacrylate preparations can be prepared by use of methods known in the art to esterify polyols to polyacids. Such methods include conventional chemical synthesis e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 2 680 735 U.S. Pat. No. 2 877 215 U.S. Pat. No. 2 967 173 U.S. Pat. No. 2 979 514 Bovin 1998 all incorporated herein by reference and use of enzymes e.g. Sahoo Gross 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 6 924 129 all incorporated herein by reference . Preparation of a suitable glyceryl polyacrylate fluid by use of NOVOZYME 435 Lipase B from is exemplified in Example 6 below. Preparation of a suitable glyceryl polymethacrylate fluid is exemplified in Example 8 below.

Suitable components of the hydrophobic dispersed phase include but are not limited to plant animal paraffinic and synthetic derived fats butters greases waxes solvents and oils mineral oils vegetable oils water insoluble organic esters water insoluble triglycerides non volatile silicones and fluorinated compounds and mixtures thereof. Plant derived materials include but are not limited to arachis peanut oil balsam Peru oil carnauba wax candelilla wax castor oil hydrogenated castor oil cocoa butter coconut oil corn oil cotton seed oil jojoba oil seed oil olive oil orange oil orange wax palm kernel oil rapeseed oil safflower oil sesame seed oil shea butter soybean oil sunflower seed oil tea tree oil vegetable oil and hydrogenated vegetable oil. Non limiting examples of animal derived materials include beeswax cod liver oil emu oil lard mink oil shark liver oil squalane squalene and tallow. Non limiting examples of paraffinic materials include isoparaffin microcrystalline wax heavy mineral oil light mineral oil ozokerite petrolatum and paraffin. A non limiting example of a non volatile silicone is dimethicone. Suitable hydrophobic materials also include C12 15 alkyl benzoate isopropyl myristate isopropyl palmitate trilaurin trihydroxystearin and polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE .

In other embodiments the hydrophobic dispersed phase can be a liquid and or can have a melting point below 25 C. In certain aspects the hydrophobic dispersed phase does not include a wax.

The topical formulations of the present invention comprise the low viscosity surfactant free dispersion of the present invention and other suitable ingredients such as cosmetic ingredients and pharmaceutical active agents including those known to persons of ordinary skill in the art and or described throughout the specification. Topical formulations may be made by first preparing the low viscosity dispersion and subsequently adding the other ingredients of the topical formulations. Alternatively one or more or all the other ingredients of a topical formulation may be added at the time the surfactant free dispersion of the present invention is made by admixing the appropriate phases.

Typically the topical formulations of the present invention can be applied to the skin without undue toxicity incompatibility instability allergic response and the like. The term cosmetic ingredients includes rheology modifiers and cosmetic active agents i.e. agents directed to enhancing modifying or maintaining a biological or physiological functionality other than those such agents required for prescribed or over the counter drugs these being pharmaceutical active agents.

In regard to cosmetic ingredients generally the CTFA International Cosmetic Ingredient Dictionary and Handbook 2004 describes a wide variety of non limiting cosmetic ingredients commonly used in the skin care industry generally suitable for use in the compositions of the present invention. Examples of these ingredient classes include fragrances artificial and natural dyes and color ingredients e.g. Blue 1 Blue 1 Lake Red 40 and titanium dioxide D C blue no. 4 D C green no. 5 D C orange no. 4 D C red no. 17 D C red no. 33 D C violet no. 2 D C yellow no. 10 and D C yellow no. 11 adsorbents lubricants solvents moisturizers including e.g. emollients humectants film formers occlusive agents and agents that affect the natural moisturization mechanisms of the skin water repellants UV absorbers physical and chemical absorbers such as paraminobenzoic acid PABA and corresponding PABA derivatives titanium dioxide zinc oxide etc. essential oils vitamins e.g. A B C D E and K trace metals e.g. zinc calcium and selenium anti irritants e.g. steroids and non steroidal anti inflammatories and botanical extracts e.g. aloe vera chamomile cucumber extract ginseng and rosemary anti microbial agents antioxidants e.g. BHT and tocopherol chelating agents e.g. disodium EDTA and tetrasodium EDTA preservatives e.g. methylparaben and propylparaben pH adjusters e.g. sodium hydroxide and citric acid absorbents e.g. aluminum starch octenylsuccinate kaolin corn starch oat starch cyclodextrin talc and zeolite skin bleaching and lightening agents e.g. hydroquinone and niacinamide lactate humectants e.g. glycerin propylene glycol butylene glycol pentylene glycol sorbitol urea and manitol exfoliants e.g. alpha hydroxyacids and beta hydroxyacids such as lactic acid glycolic acid and salicylic acid and salts thereof waterproofing agents e.g. magnesium aluminum hydroxide stearate skin conditioning agents e.g. aloe extracts allantoin bisabolol ceramides dimethicone hyaluronic acid and dipotassium glycyrrhizate . Non limiting examples of some of these ingredients are provided in the following subsections.

Non limiting examples of preservatives that can be used in the context of the present invention include parabens e.g. methylparabens and propylparabens benzyl alcohol chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal or combinations thereof.

Non limiting examples of moisturizing agents that can be used with the compositions of the present invention can be found in the International Cosmetic Ingredient Dictionary 10Ed. 2004 which is incorporated by reference. Examples include amino acids chondroitin sulfate diglycerin erythritol fructose glucose glycerin glycerol polymers glycol 1 2 6 hexanetriol honey hyaluronic acid hydrogenated honey hydrogenated starch hydrolysate inositol lactitol maltitol maltose mannitol natural moisturizing factor polyglyceryl sorbitol salts of pyrollidone carboxylic acid potassium PCA propylene glycol sodium glucuronate sodium PCA sorbitol sucrose trehalose urea and xylitol.

Examples of emollients include but are not limited to vegetable oils mineral oils silicone oils synthetic and natural waxes medium chain triglycerides petrolatum lanolin aluminum magnesium hydroxide stearate which can also function as a water repellent and fatty acid esters. Non limiting examples of vegetable oils include safflower oil corn oil sunflower seed oil and olive oil.

Examples of antioxidants include but are not limited to acetyl cysteine ascorbic acid ascorbic acid polypeptide ascorbyl dipalmitate ascorbyl methylsilanol pectinate ascorbyl palmitate ascorbyl stearate BHA BHT t butyl hydroquinone cysteine cysteine HCl diamylhydroquinone di t butylhydroquinone dicetyl thiodipropionate dioleyl tocopheryl methylsilanol disodium ascorbyl sulfate distearyl thiodipropionate ditridecyl thiodipropionate dodecyl gallate erythorbic acid esters of ascorbic acid ethyl ferulate ferulic acid gallic acid esters hydroquinone isooctyl thioglycolate kojic acid magnesium ascorbate magnesium ascorbyl phosphate methylsilanol ascorbate natural botanical anti oxidants such as green tea or grape seed extracts nordihydroguaiaretic acid octyl gallate phenylthioglycolic acid potassium ascorbyl tocopheryl phosphate potassium sulfite propyl gallate quinones rosmarinic acid sodium ascorbate sodium bisulfite sodium erythorbate sodium metabisulfite sodium sulfite superoxide dismutase sodium thioglycolate sorbityl furfural thiodiglycol thiodiglycolamide thiodiglycolic acid thioglycolic acid thiolactic acid thiosalicylic acid tocophereth 5 tocophereth 10 tocophereth 12 tocophereth 18 tocophereth 50 tocopherol tocophersolan tocopheryl acetate tocopheryl linoleate tocopheryl nicotinate tocopheryl succinate and tris nonylphenyl phosphite.

Pharmaceutical active agents may include but are not limited to anti acne agents including those for the treatment of rosacea analgesics anesthetics anorectals antihistamines anti inflammatory agents including non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs antibiotics antifungals antivirals antimicrobials anti cancer actives scabicides pediculicides antineoplastics antiperspirants antipruritics antipsoriatic agents antiseborrheic agents biologically active proteins and peptides burn treatment agents cauterizing agents depigmenting agents depilatories diaper rash treatment agents enzymes hair growth stimulants hair growth retardants including DFMO and its salts and analogs hemostatics kerotolytics canker sore treatment agents cold sore treatment agents dental and periodontal treatment agents photosensitizing actives skin protectant barrier agents steroids including hormones and corticosteroids sunburn treatment agents sunscreens transdermal actives nasal actives vaginal actives wart treatment agents wound debriding agents wound treatment agents wound healing agents and retinoids including retinol retinoic acid and retinoic acid derivatives.

Topical formulations of the invention may include rheology modifiers also known as thickeners . Such agents used in topical formulations are known to those of skill in the art and serve to impart certain desirable physical attributes such as product consistency texture and viscosity to a formulation. Typically rheology modifiers may be selected from sodium polyacrylates carbomers natural gums natural gum derivatives clays modified clays cellulose cellulose derivatives magnesium aluminum silicates gellan gums xanthan gums starches and modified starches. By selecting certain rheology modifiers or combinations of such the formulator can achieve the desired physical characteristics of a topical formulation. Examples of rheology modifiers can be found in McCutcheon s Functional Materials 2001 under Thickeners and include the following the CTFA INCI name is denoted in parentheses for reference 

For the purpose of this invention the selection of rheology modifiers and any additional topical vehicle ingredients should not include those materials that are also surfactants as in the surfactant examples listed in McCutcheon s Emulsifiers and Detergents 2001 under Surfactants. 

In the foregoing products it is important that the concentrations and combinations of the compounds and ingredients be selected in such a way that the combinations are chemically compatible and do not cause instability of the finished product.

A person of ordinary skill will recognize that the compositions of the present invention can include any number of combinations of ingredients components of the dispersions e.g. the hydrophobic and hydrophilic phases cosmetic ingredients pharmaceutical active ingredients etc. of the present invention. It is also contemplated that the concentrations of these ingredients within the compositions can vary. In non limiting embodiments for example the compositions may include in their final form for example at least about 0.0001 to about 0.001 0.001 to about 0.01 0.01 to about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 3.0 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.9 4.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 5.0 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 5.7 5.8 5.9 6.0 6.1 6.2 6.3 6.4 6.5 6.6 6.7 6.8 6.9 7.0 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 7.7 7.8 7.9 8.0 8.1 8.2 8.3 8.4 8.5 8.6 8.7 8.8 8.9 9.0 9.1 9.2 9.3 9.4 9.5 9.6 9.7 9.8 9.9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 or 99 or any range derivable therein of at least one of the ingredients mentioned throughout the specification and claims. In non limiting aspects the percentage can be calculated by weight or volume of the total composition. A person of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the concentrations can vary depending on the addition substitution and or subtraction of ingredients in a given composition.

A person of ordinary skill in the art would also recognize that the selection of the concentrations and combinations of ingredients can be made in such a way that the combinations are chemically compatible and do not cause instability of the finished product.

Known and unknown equivalents to the ingredients discussed throughout this specification can be used with the dispersions compositions and methods of the present invention. The equivalents can be used as substitutes for the ingredients and or can be added to the methods dispersions compositions of the present invention. A person of ordinary skill in the art would be able to recognize and identify acceptable known and unknown equivalents to the ingredients without undue experimentation.

The dispersions and compositions of the present invention can be incorporated into several different vehicles. Non limiting examples of suitable vehicles include emulsions e.g. water in oil water in oil in water oil in water oil in water in oil oil in water in silicone emulsions creams lotions solutions both aqueous and hydro alcoholic anhydrous bases such as lipsticks and powders gels ointments serums liquids fluids non aerosol sprays aerosol sprays non aerosol foams aerosol foams or by other method or any combination of the forgoing as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art Remington s 1990 . Variations and other appropriate vehicles will be apparent to the skilled artisan and are appropriate for use in the present invention. In certain aspects it is important that the concentrations and combinations of ingredients be selected in such a way that the combinations are chemically compatible and do not form complexes which precipitate from the finished product.

The dispersions and compositions of the present invention can also be used in many cosmetic and pharmaceutical products. Non limiting examples of cosmetic products include sunscreen products sunless skin tanning products hair products finger nail products moisturizing creams skin benefit creams and lotions softeners day lotions foundations night creams lipsticks cleansers toners masks and other known cosmetic products and applications. Non limiting examples of pharmaceutical products include anti acne products analgesic products anesthetic products anorectal products antihistamine products anti inflammatory products antibiotic products antifungal products antiviral products antimicrobial products anti cancer products scabicidal products pediculicidal products antineoplastic products antiperspirants antipruritic products antipsoriatic products antiseborrheic products burn treatment products cauterizing products depigmenting products depilatory products diaper rash treatment products hair growth products hair growth retardant products hemostatic products keratolytic products canker sore treatment products cold sore treatment products dental and periodontal treatment products skin protectant barrier products steroidal products including hormonal and corticosteroidal products sunburn treatment products sunscreen products transdermal products nasal products vaginal products wart treatment products wound debriding products wound treatment products wound healing products.

Kits are also contemplated as being used in certain aspects of the present invention. For instance the dispersions or compositions of the present invention can be included in a kit. Containers can be included in the kit. Containers can include a bottle a metal tube a laminate tube a plastic tube a dispenser a pressurized container a barrier container a package a compartment or other types of containers such as injection or blow molded plastic containers into which the dispersions or compositions or desired bottles dispensers or packages are retained. The kit and or container can include indicia on its surface. The indicia for example can be a word a phrase an abbreviation a picture or a symbol.

The containers can dispense a pre determined amount of the dispersion or composition. In other embodiments the container can be squeezed e.g. metal laminate or plastic tube to dispense a desired amount of the dispersion or composition. The dispersion or composition can be dispensed as a spray an aerosol a liquid a fluid or a semi solid. The containers can have spray pump or squeeze mechanisms. A kit can also include instructions for employing the kit components as well the use of any other dispersions or compositions included in the container. Instructions can include an explanation of how to apply use and maintain the products dispersions or compositions.

The following examples are included to demonstrate certain non limiting aspects of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the inventor to function well in the practice of the invention. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Non limiting embodiments of dispersions of the present invention are described in the following Tables 1 6.

A non limiting example of a surfactant free cream with mineral oil was prepared as described in the following two steps 

Step 2 The mineral oil dispersion was incorporated into an aqueous based topical vehicle as described in Table 8 

An additional non limiting example of a surfactant free cream with mineral oil was prepared as described in the following two steps 

Step 2 The mineral oil dispersion was incorporated into an aqueous based topical vehicle as described in Table 10 

A non limiting example of a surfactant free lotion with mineral oil was prepared as described in the following two steps 

Step 2 The mineral oil dispersion was incorporated into an aqueous based topical vehicle as described in Table 12 

An additional non limiting example of a surfactant free lotion with mineral oil was prepared as described in the following two steps 

Step 2 The mineral oil dispersion was incorporated into an aqueous based topical vehicle as described in Table 14 

A non limiting example of synthesizing glyceryl polyacrylate fluid is describe. The estrerification of the carboxylic groups of polyacrylic acid with glycerin generally followed the methodology of Sahoo Gross 2004 incorporated by reference. Polyacrylic acid MW 750 000 Aldrich Chemicals was suspended in glycerin along with the enzyme NOVOZYME 435 Sigma Chemicals as indicated in Table 15 below 

The reaction was mixed for 6 consecutive days using a COWLES disperser at approximately 75 C. the mixture was stored each night at room temperature without mixing . At the end of the reaction mixing period the enzyme beads were removed by centrifugation the beads accumulate at the surface upon centrifugation . The fluid was completed by mixing 50 w w of the reaction mixture with 50 w w of 50 50 solution of water and glycerin using a COWLES disperser until a uniform fluid was formed. The viscosity of the fluid was 826 cps as measured by a BROOKFIELD RV model viscometer using a 3 spindle at 50 rpm at 25 C.

A non limiting example of a mineral oil dispersion having glyceryl polyacrylate fluid as the hydrophilic phase and mineral oil USP as the hydrophobic phase is described in Table 16 below. The glyceryl polyacrylate fluid was prepared as described in Example 6 and a dispersion was prepared as follows 

A non limiting example of synthesizing glyceryl polymethacrylate fluid is described. Suspend polymethacrylic acid in glycerin along with the enzyme NOVOZYME 435 Sigma Chemicals . Mix the reaction using a COWLES disperser at approximately 70 C. 75 C. until the reaction is complete. At the end of the reaction mixing period remove the enzyme beads by centrifugation the beads accumulate at the surface upon centrifugation . Complete the preparation of the fluid by mixing a portion of the reaction mixture with a portion of a solution of water and glycerin using a COWLES disperser until a uniform fluid is formed. Confirm the viscosity of the fluid is between 20 and 1600 cps as measured by a BROOKFIELD RV model viscometer using a 3 spindle at 50 rpm at 25 C.

A non limiting example of a mineral oil dispersion having glyceryl polymethacrylate fluid as the hydrophilic phase and mineral oil USP as the hydrophobic phase is described in Table 17 below. The glyceryl polymethacrylate fluid is prepared as described in Example 8 and a dispersion is prepared as follows 

The following references to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or other details supplementary to those set forth herein are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

