---

title: Navigation of hierarchical data sets
abstract: Briefly, in accordance with one or more embodiments, a hierarchical data set may be displayed in a database view in a content window of a program or graphical user interface. A filter panel may display one or more categories of information about the hierarchical data set including one or more filterable items that may be selected by a user. In response to a user selection, filtered contents of the hierarchical data set may be displayed in the database view according to the selection to allow a user to navigate the hierarchical dataset via the database view. In one or more embodiments, the hierarchical data set may comprise a file system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996542&OS=08996542&RS=08996542
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08996542
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061213
---
There are typically two approaches to navigating large stores of data hierarchical navigation or query based navigation. In the former the data items are organized in an arbitrarily deep tree or other graph structure with a given item having a parent and one or more children. This approach allows users to choose which categories to use for example the directories in which the files are stored and how to relate them to each other. Such an arrangement makes it easy to assign and change the category to which an item pertains for example by moving it. However it is difficult for an item to belong to multiple categories although some solutions to this problem have been proposed such as the use of links aliases and shortcuts. Another drawback normally associated with hierarchical navigation method is the difficulty to take advantage of the intrinsic metadata that may be associated with an item. Furthermore extrinsic type metadata other than the filename are difficult to use for navigation. In the typical database type approach a record may correspond to an item in the data set and various metadata properties are indexed. A user can then issue a query of the database to select an appropriate subset of records. However with such an approach the user no longer has the benefits of the structural relationship among items that is made possible by a hierarchical organization of a hierarchical data set.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and or clarity of illustration elements illustrated in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further if considered appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding and or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuits have not been described in detail.

Some portions of the detailed description that follows are presented in terms of processes programs and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits and or binary digital signals within a computer memory for example. These process descriptions and or representations may include techniques used in the data processing arts to convey the arrangement of a computer system and or other information handling system to operate according to such programs processes and or symbolic representations of operations.

A process may be generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts and or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated. It may be convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers and or the like. However these and or similar terms may be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions throughout the specification discussion utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computing platform such as computer and or computing system and or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the registers and or memories of the computer and or computing system and or similar electronic and or computing device into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers and or other such information storage transmission and or display devices of the computing system and or other information handling system.

Embodiments claimed may include one or more apparatuses for performing the operations herein. Such an apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated and or reconfigured by a program stored in the device. Such a program may be stored on a storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and or programmable read only memories EEPROMs flash memory magnetic and or optical cards and or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and or capable of being coupled to a system bus for a computing device computing platform and or other information handling system.

The processes and or displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing device and or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or a more specialized apparatus may be constructed to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings described herein.

In the following description and or claims the terms coupled and or connected along with their derivatives may be used. In particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical and or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical and or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements may not be in direct contact with each other but yet may still cooperate and or interact with each other. Furthermore the term and or may mean and it may mean or it may mean exclusive or it may mean one it may mean some but not all it may mean neither and or it may mean both although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments an object may refer to an item that may be selected and or manipulated for example shapes pictures images text and or text boxes that may appear on a display as rendered by a computing platform coupled to the display. In one or more embodiments the term render may refer to displaying an object on a display coupled to a computing platform and or to manipulating the object on the display. In one or more embodiments graphic may refer to a pictorial and or image representation of an object and in one or more alternative embodiments may refer to an object itself. In one or more embodiments a graphic element may be single and or fundamental graphic object and or a portion thereof. In one or more embodiments a letterform may be a shape and or design of a letter of an alphabet. In one or more embodiments a font may refer to a design for a set of characters and or letters for printing and or displaying. In one or more embodiments text may refer to letters and or characters that may be manipulated and or combined as words lines and or pages. However these are merely example definitions of the above terms phrases and or concepts wherein other definitions may apply as well and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects. In one or more embodiments to parse may refer to dividing computer code into elements that can be analyzed and or identified. In one or more embodiments file may refer to a collection of data code instructions and or other information that may be readable accessible and or able to be acted on by a computing platform and or the like. In one or more embodiments a format may refer to a predefined organizational structure for data code instructions and or other information that may be readable accessible and or able to be acted on by a computing platform and or the like.

In one or more embodiments a graphical user interface GUI may refer to a program interface that utilizes displayed graphical information to allow a user to control and or operate a computing platform and or the like. A pointer may refer to a cursor and or other symbol that appears on a display screen that may be moved and or controlled with a pointing device to select objects and or input commands via a graphical user interface of a computing platform and or the like. A pointing device may refer to a device used to control a cursor to select objects and or input commands via a graphical user interface of a computing platform and or the like. Pointing devices may include for example a mouse a trackball a track pad a track stick a keyboard a stylus a digitizing tablet and or similar types of devices. A cursor may refer to a symbol and or a pointer where an input selection and or actuation may be made with respect to a region of in a graphical user interface. In one embodiment content reflow may refer to where the contents of a document may be rearranged to alter the layout order and or readability of the content of the document. In one or more embodiments transient may refer to being in a state for a brief and or temporary period of time and or passing with time and or a temporary state of being. In one or more embodiments an icon may refer to a smaller sized picture that may represent an object a file and or a program and in some embodiments an icon may be a thumbnail wherein a thumbnail may refer to a smaller sized image and or picture of an object a file and or a program and or a portion thereof. However these are merely example definitions of terms relating to graphical user interfaces and or computing platforms and or the like and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments a database may refer an organization of information created stored accessed edited and or otherwise utilized by a computing platform. In one or more embodiments a tag may refer to a command contained in a file object and or document that may specify how the file object and or document and or a portion thereof may be formatted. In one or more embodiments metadata may refer to information pertaining to data contained in a file object and or document for example formatting information date of creation date of editing date saved how data was obtained and or from where data was obtained. Such metadata for example may be utilized in for database management purposes and or for data warehousing of multiple databases although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments an application programming interface API may refer to a set of routines protocols and or tools utilized to cause a program to operate in conjunction with an operating system. In one or more embodiments an operating system may refer to a program to execute on a computing platform to handle input and or output commands file management printing displaying storing and or communicating of information for the computing platform. However these are merely examples of database and or operating system functions and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

In one or more embodiments a hierarchical data set may refer to a set of data items such as files and or directories organized hierarchically. For example a file system may be an example of a hierarchical data set. In one or more embodiments metadata may refer to information about data items contained in a hierarchical data set or the like. For example metadata may comprise a filename a date of creation an author and or a set of keywords. Some metadata may reflect information specific to the type of item for example width height and or orientation for a graphical document and or tempo or key for an audio recording. In one or more embodiments intrinsic metadata may refer to information about an item that may be associated to an item by its very nature. For example intrinsic metadata of an image may include width and or height of the image. In one or more embodiments extrinsic metadata may refer to information about an item associated by a user such as a list of keywords a rating or comments. However these are merely examples of hierarchical data sets metadata intrinsic metadata and or extrinsic metadata and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Referring now to a block diagram of navigation of a hierarchical data set with a navigation application or the like in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. As shown in a navigation application may be capable of allowing a user to navigate hierarchical data set using a database type view of the hierarchical data set. In one or more embodiments hierarchical data set may comprise a file system such as a file system of an operating system although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments navigation application may perform a discovery operation on hierarchical data set to discover one or more features of and or information pertaining to hierarchical data set that may be utilized for navigation of data in hierarchical data set. In one or more embodiments such features and or information may comprise metadata or the like. Such metadata may be obtained from hierarchical data set at operation and navigation application may build and or synchronize database via operation based on an analysis of one or more files of hierarchical data set . In general database may be accessed which may include building database if database does not yet exist and or may include synchronizing database if database already exists and or may include accessing database without performing or requiring synchronization of database although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Database may then be utilized by user interface to display database view of hierarchical data set via display operation . As a result user interface may allow a user to view information in hierarchical data set in a database view. In one or more embodiments user interface may be a user interface of an operating system in which a user may view files and or folders of information stored on a computing platform on which the operating system is running. In such embodiments the files and or folders may be organized as hierarchical data set which in this case may comprise the file system of the operating system. Thus navigation application may allow a user to view and or navigate the files and or folders of the file system as a database view via database view rather than viewing and or navigating of the files and or folders via a hierarchical viewing and or navigating system. In one or more embodiments user interface may comprise a target application executing on the operating system that uses a user interface to view and or navigate hierarchical data set from within the program. Such a program may comprise for example Adobe Photoshop or the like type of application available from Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. USA although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments navigation application may be stand alone application applet and or servlet or the like or alternatively may be part of another program at least partially or a module service and or object thereof or the like. For example navigation application may be part of an operating system or may be part of a user interface or target application . However these are merely examples of where and or how navigation application may be tangible embodied and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments a user may navigate hierarchical data set via database view of hierarchical data set . In one or more embodiments database view of hierarchical data may comprise a filter panel with which a user may navigate information contained in hierarchical data set . A user input may be provide to user interface at select operation in which a user may select to filter the information displayed in database view of hierarchical data set . Such a user input may allow the user to find information in hierarchical data set that meet one or more criteria of a query. In response to user input user interface may query navigation application to filter information in database that meet the one or more criteria of query . As a result user interface may then provide filtered information via filter operation to user interface such that database view of hierarchical data displays filtered information meeting the one or more criteria of query . Using one or more query operations and resulting filter operations the user may view and or navigate information in hierarchical data set so that only information files folders and so on that meet the one or more criteria may be displayed in database view of hierarchical data set . The filter panel with which the user may provide such queries to filter the information is shown in and further discussed with respect to .

Referring now to a diagram of an application having a user interface capable of allowing viewing and or navigation of a hierarchical data set or the like in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. In the particular embodiment as shown in application may comprise graphical user interface capable of allowing a user to view navigate and or manipulate information in hierarchical data set . In one or more embodiments graphical user interface may correspond to user interface of and application may correspond to the target application which in the embodiment shown may comprise Adobe Photoshop or a similar program although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments graphical user interface of application may include filter panel that may allow a user to navigate information of hierarchical data set that may be displayed in a content window of application . Such a filter panel may operate as a navigation tool that is capable of allowing a user to apply a filter operation to hierarchical data set while browsing hierarchical data set represented as database view of hierarchical data set . The content of filter panel may be determined dynamically based at least in part on the contents of the hierarchical data set being navigated via application . Filter panel may contain multiple categories based on an analysis of the files contained in the current hierarchical data set with which database was generated. As shown in hierarchical data set may comprise a folder of image files. In such an example categories may comprise various attributes of the image files based at least in part on metadata contained in the image files. For example categories may comprise labels ratings file type keywords date created date modified orientation aspect ratio copyright notice and or any other type of information and or metadata that may be associated with an image file. In the event where the files are audio files instead of image files categories may comprise rating keywords file format date created tempo and or any other type of information and or metadata that may be associated with an audio file. Categories of filter panel may be dynamically generated and based at least in part on metadata obtained at process on the particular type of files that may be present in hierarchical data set . If there are no files having a particular category that particular category may not be displayed in filter panel . For example if there are no audio recordings contained within hierarchical data set the tempo category may not be shown. For one or more of categories one or several filter items may be determined based at least in part on the value of one or more specific metadata properties. In some cases some or all of the retrieved values may be indicated for example in the case of keywords. In other cases the values may be grouped for example all files modified on the same date. For one or more of the filter items the specific items matching a particular filter item may be recorded and the number of corresponding items may be displayed. The user may then select for example using a mouse or mouse type input one or more filter items . For example if the user selects the filter item JPEG file in the File Type category only items of this file type may be displayed in content window . Further filtering using categories and filter items may allow the user to further navigate among the items contained in hierarchical data set and the corresponding items meeting the requirements of such queries may be displayed in content window accordingly. In or more embodiments hierarchical data set may comprise one or more subdirectories or trees in which items may be stored and organized. For example in a file system embodiment one or more folders may contain one or more subfolders. In accordance with such an embodiment program may be capable of displaying all such items of hierarchical data set within a single content window without requiring the display of the subfolders for navigation. In other words the hierarchical structure of hierarchical data set may be flattened out such that at least initially for example all or nearly all of the files in hierarchical data set may be simultaneously displayed in content window for example all or nearly all of the contents of the folders and subfolders in a certain directory. However this is merely one example of how items in hierarchical data set may be displayed in content window and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method for navigation of a hierarchical data set in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. One particular order of the blocks of method is shown in however in other embodiments the blocks may be arranged in one or more other orders and or may include more or fewer blocks than shown in . Furthermore method may be tangibly embodied in a computer program and or application or the like executed by a computing platform or other information handling system such as shown in and described with respect to and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

At block navigation application may read metadata of hierarchical data set from the items of hierarchical data set . At block navigation application may build database on an initial creation of database and or may synchronize database with hierarchical data set for example if there have been any changes or updates to hierarchical data set. At block a decision may be made whether any changes of hierarchical data set have been made and if so such a synchronization of database with hierarchical data set may occur. Otherwise in one or more embodiments at block hierarchical data set may may be displayed in a database type view for example by displaying the contents of database . Such a database type view of hierarchical data set may occur via passing of information in database to user interface or a target application such as application or the like by navigation application .

At block a user input to query and or to otherwise navigate hierarchical data set may be received for example by user interface and or the target application such as application or the like. At block navigation application may then filter the data in database view of hierarchical data set based at least in part on the query received as user input and cause user interface and or the target application to display a filtered database view of hierarchical data set at block based at least in part on the filter operation performed by navigation application . Method may continue a block from which method may continue at one or more other blocks of method . For example further additional filtering may be provided by navigation application in response to additional queries received as user input from a user which may result in a further narrowing of the information displayed in filtered database view of hierarchical data set although the scope of the claimed subject matters is not limited in these respects.

Referring now to a block diagram of an information handling system capable of navigation of a hierarchical data set in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. It should be noted that information handling system of is merely one type of computing platform and other computing platforms having more and or fewer components than shown in may be implemented and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments information handling system may be utilized to implement method of in whole and or in part using more and or fewer blocks than shown in and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Information handling system as shown in may tangibly embody a computing platform on which navigation application and or user interface or target application of or application and or graphical user interface of may be executed to implement method of . Such programs applications modules and or machine readable instructions or the like may be tangibly stored on a computer and or machine readable medium such as a compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD flash memory read only memory type memory hard disk drive HDD and so on. Information handling system as shown in may represent one embodiment of such a computing platform wherein information handling system may include fewer and or more blocks to implement various types of computing platforms as desired and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

As shown in information handling system may be controlled by processor . Processor may comprise a central processing unit such as a microprocessor or microcontroller for executing programs performing data manipulations and controlling the tasks of information handling system . Communication with processor may be implemented via bus for transferring information among the components of information handling system . Bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of information handling system . Bus further may provide a set of signals utilized for communication with processor including for example a data bus and address bus and or a control bus. Bus may comprise any bus architecture according to promulgated standards for example industry standard architecture ISA peripheral component interconnect PCI type local bus Universal Serial Bus USB standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and so on although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Other components of information handling system may include for example main memory and or auxiliary memory . Information handling system may further comprise auxiliary processing processor which may be another processor a digital signal processor and so on. Main memory may provide storage of instructions and data for programs to be executed by processor . Main memory may be for example semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM and or the like. Other semi conductor based memory types may include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM polymer type memory and so on. Auxiliary memory may be utilized to store instructions and or data that to be loaded into main memory before execution. Auxiliary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory and or any block oriented memory similar to EEPROM. Auxiliary memory may also include any type of non semiconductor based memories including but not limited to magnetic tape drum floppy disk hard disk optical laser disk compact disc read only memory CD ROM write once compact disc CD R rewritable compact disc CD RW digital versatile disc read only memory DVD ROM write once DVD DVD R rewritable digital versatile disc DVD RAM and so on. Other varieties of memory devices are contemplated as well. Information handling system optionally include auxiliary processor which may be an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a digital signal processor and or any special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms a back end processor and or any subordinate type processor subordinate to processor an additional microprocessor and or controller for dual and or multiple processor systems and or a coprocessor and or additional processor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors and or or may be arranged in the same package as processor for example in a multicore and or multithreaded processor however the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Information handling system further may include display system for connecting to display and further may include input output I O controller to connect to one or more I O devices including for example I O device I O device up to an Nth I O device I O device . Display system may comprise a video display adapter having components for driving display including for example video memory a buffer and or a graphics engine. Such video memory may be for example video random access memory VRAM synchronous graphics random access memory SGRAM windows random access memory WRAM and or the like. Display may comprise a cathode ray tube CRT type display such as a monitor and or television and or may comprise an alternative type of display technology such as a projection type CRT type display a liquid crystal display LCD projector type display an LCD type display a light emitting diode LED type display a gas and or plasma type display an electroluminescent type display a vacuum fluorescent type display a cathodoluminescent and or field emission type display a plasma addressed liquid crystal PALC type display a high gain emissive display HGED type display and so forth. Input output controller may comprise one or more controllers and or adapters to prove interface functions between one or more of I O device I O device and or I O device . For example input output controller may comprise a serial port parallel port universal serial bus USB port an IEEE 1394 serial bus port infrared port network adapter printer adapter radio frequency RF communications adapter universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART port and or the like to interface between corresponding I O devices such as a keyboard mouse trackball touchpad joystick track stick infrared transducers printer modem RF modem bar code reader charge coupled device CCD reader scanner compact disc CD compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD video capture device TV tuner card touch screen stylus electro acoustic transducer microphone speaker audio amplifier and or the like. Input output controller and or I O device I O device and or I O device may provide and or receive analog and or digital signals to communicate between information handling system and external devices networks and or information sources. Input output controller and or I O device I O device and or I O device may implement industry promulgated architecture standards including for example Ethernet IEEE 802 type standards such as IEEE 802.3 for broadband and or baseband networks IEEE 802.3z for Gigabit Ethernet IEEE 802.4 for token passing bus networks IEEE 802.5 for token ring networks IEEE 802.6 for metropolitan area networks and or the like Fibre Channel digital subscriber line DSL asymmetric digital subscriber line ASDL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on. Information handling system of is merely one example of an information handling system and or computing platform and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Although the claimed subject matter has been described with a certain degree of particularity it should be recognized that elements thereof may be altered by persons skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and or scope of claimed subject matter. It is believed that the subject matter pertaining to navigation of hierarchical data set and or many of its attendant utilities will be understood by the forgoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and or arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and or spirit of the claimed subject matter or without sacrificing all of its material advantages the form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof and or further without providing substantial change thereto. It is the intention of the claims to encompass and or include such changes.

