---

title: Multi-mode fuze
abstract: A multi-mode fuze includes first and second microprocessors, the first microprocessor being connected to a resistor/capacitor oscillator and the second microprocessor being connected to a quartz crystal oscillator, the first and second microprocessors being connected to each other, the second microprocessor being operable to time calibrate the first microprocessor; a safe and arm device connected to the first microprocessor; power storage capacitors connected to the first microprocessor; a nose mounted impact switch connected to the first microprocessor; at least one impact delay circuit connected to the first microprocessor; and at least one acceleration switch connected to the first microprocessor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07600475&OS=07600475&RS=07600475
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07600475
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060531
---
This application is a continuation in part of prior application Ser. No. 11 398 731 filed on Mar. 31 2006 which claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 594 356 filed on Mar. 31 2005.

The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to munitions and in particular to a munition fuze having multiple functions.

Projectile fuzes of today are required to meet stringent safety design requirements. These requirements include keeping sensitive primary explosives separate from the warhead until two different launch environments are sensed. These environments must each operate separate locks in the safety and arming S A mechanism. Fuzes must also maintain the safety of the gun crew by delaying arming until the projectile is a safe distance from the gun.

There are a variety of different fuzes in production. Most fuzes are single purpose and include time fuzes proximity fuzes impact fuzes and impact delay fuzes. Several newer fuzes are so called multi option fuzes which accomplish a number of these tasks. These fuzes are generally electromechanical and integrate digital electronic circuitry with mechanical S A s. The digital circuitry is used for time and proximity functions while impact is generally done with simple analog circuitry. Delay after impact if done at all is a single fixed delay. Fuzes used in relatively low launch acceleration environments such as mortars and artillery utilize quartz crystal oscillator clocked electronics. Quartz oscillators however are too delicate to reliably survive the high launch acceleration of tank gun and small caliber ammunition. For these higher launch acceleration environments resistor capacitor RC clocked electronics are used.

The shortcoming of RC clocked circuitry is that RC frequencies vary greatly. They vary unit to unit they vary with time and they vary with temperature. To make an RC clocked circuit work accurately enough to be used in a time mode the RC must be calibrated. This calibration is done at the time of setting via a two way data link with a quartz clocked setter. While this is a valid technique it can be too time consuming for certain situations.

For example the current tank ammunition suite includes different rounds for different target types. Tanks travel with one round in chamber to rapidly attack an enemy vehicle. In such close combat encounters the first to shoot is usually the victor. Currently tanks must travel with a round chambered which addresses the most likely or most threatening target usually an armored target. However if the target is not an armored target then for maximum effectiveness the tank round must be changed to correspond to the new target.

It is another object of the invention to provide a multi mode fuze having both quartz crystal and RC oscillators.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a multi mode fuze wherein the quartz crystal oscillator calibrates the RC oscillator prior to launch.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a multi mode fuze that includes an impact function a delayed impact function and an airburst function.

One aspect of the invention is a fuze comprising first and second microprocessors the first microprocessor being connected to a resistor capacitor oscillator and the second microprocessor being connected to a quartz crystal oscillator the first and second microprocessors being connected to each other the second microprocessor being operable to time calibrate the first microprocessor.

The fuze may further comprise a safe and arm device connected to the first microprocessor power storage capacitors connected to the first microprocessor a multiplexer connected to the first microprocessor a nose mounted impact switch connected to the multiplexer at least one impact delay circuit connected to the first microprocessor and the multiplexer and at least one acceleration switch connected to the first microprocessor.

Preferably the first microprocessor is settable in a plurality of modes comprising an impact mode an airburst mode and at least one impact delay mode.

Another aspect of the invention is a projectile having a nose end a rear end and a fuze as described above disposed in the rear end.

A further aspect of the invention is a munition having a gun tube a setter box and a projectile as described above disposed in the gun tube wherein the setter box is operable to electrically connect to the fuze.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a method comprising providing a munition as described above and prior to launch calibrating the resistance capacitor oscillator using the quartz crystal oscillator.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The invention includes a multi mode fuze that is settable in the bore of a gun. The fuze is applicable to multiple calibers of projectiles and is completely scalable. The fuze enables a single projectile to have several selectable modes of detonation. The multi mode fuze and multi purpose round enable a gunner to rapidly attack a variety of targets increasing the likelihood of a victorious result. Upon identifying the target the vehicle fire control aims the weapon sets the fuze and fires all in rapid sequence. The gunner does not need to worry about what round he has loaded or what target he is attacking. He just sets the mode and fires.

The inventive fuze is electromechanical and incorporates both quartz crystal and RC oscillators in a single electronics package. The two oscillators are used to clock two separate integrated circuits IC s . The crystal clocked IC is used to calibrate the RC clocked IC. The crystal clocked IC is used for communication with the setter box and sets the function mode and time onto the RC clocked oscillator. The crystal clocked IC having no further role in fuze function is turned off prior to gun launch. Because the crystal clocked IC is off during gun launch and flight whether or not the crystal survives gun launch is irrelevant. Also because the calibration is done internally to the electronics package no setting time is wasted calibrating the RC timer. The entire charge and setting of the fuze may be done in only 50 milliseconds.

the ruggedness of an RC timer. The impact delay time and airburst time are set while the projectile and fuze are in the bore of the gun tube. The fuze is set while in the tube by the vehicle fire control. The gunner sets the function mode and time based on the expected target. The gunner can program an air burst to attack troops in the open or aerial targets. The gunner can also set a variety of impact delays to attack hard targets based on target and desired target effect. For example if the projectile is fired at a masonry building the fuze could be set for a short delay to create a large hole in the wall for breaching or could be set for a longer delay to incapacitate the troops inside.

This technique provides for gun crew safety while maximizing the projectile s functional range. The explosive train incorporates an M100 electric detonator that is hardwired into the electronics. An M61 stab detonator in the rotor is used to transfer the explosive propagation from the M100 to the output lead charge. This provides an explosive train with no moving contacts. Moving detonator contacts can open on target deceleration and are best avoided on a fuze intended to function during target impact.

Power to the microprocessors is supplied by capacitors . The projectile containing the fuze is loaded in a gun tube for firing. The gun s fire control includes a setter box that electrically connects to the fuze through the projectile base in a known manner. The setter box charges the power storage capacitors and transfers the fuze mode and timing information to the second microprocessor . The second microprocessor transfers the fuze mode and timing information to the first microprocessor .

The first microprocessor is connected to a safe and arm device . The safe and arm device includes two locks. The first lock is unlocked by the setback acceleration at launch and the second lock is unlocked by actuation of a piston actuator . The piston actuator functions on command of the first microprocessor after a suitable time delay. The time delay is measured from launch with time zero determined by the acceleration switches . At least one and preferably two acceleration switches are provided. The two functions of the acceleration switches are 1 determine time zero for the time delays of the piston actuation and airburst detonation and 2 function as impact switches for decelerations that are not large enough to close the nose switch.

The nose mounted impact switch at least one impact delay circuit and at least one acceleration switch are all connected to the multiplexer . The impact delay circuits delay detonation after an impact is sensed by either the nose switch or the acceleration switches . Preferably one impact delay is short and the other impact delay is long. There may be more than two impact delay circuits if desired. Typically the impact delay circuits are resistor capacitor circuits.

The first microprocessor is settable in a plurality of modes including but not limited to an impact mode an airburst mode and at least one impact delay mode. For each mode the multiplexer sends a fire signal to a detonator in the safe and arm device . If the airburst mode is chosen an airburst time is also chosen. When the chosen airburst time has elapsed the multiplexer sends the fire signal to detonator . In the impact mode which is a quick detonation mode one of two events may occur. When deceleration due to impact is large enough to close the nose switch then the multiplexer sends a fire signal to the detonator . When deceleration due to impact is not large enough to close the nose switch but does reach a preset value the acceleration switches sense the deceleration and the multiplexer sends a fire signal to the detonator . Small impact decelerations may be due to the projectile hitting a surface at an oblique angle. In the impact delay mode the operation is similar to the impact mode except the fire signal is delayed by one or more of the impact delay circuits .

The firing information comprises a mode selection i.e airburst impact or impact delay and an appropriate time period. For example in the airburst mode the selectable time period is the time from launch to detonation. In the impact mode no time period is needed because the fuze detonates on impact. In the impact delay mode the selectable time period is the time period from impact to detonation. The time period from launch to firing of the piston actuator is generally fixed and not a part of the fire control solution.

The safe and arm device includes an electrical detonator such as the M100 that receives the electrical fire signal from the first microprocessor . The explosive output of the electrical detonator ignites an output charge such as the M61 stab detonator which then ignites the warhead in the projectile . is a schematic cutaway of the safe and arm device SA in the safe position and is a cutaway side view of the SA also in the safe position. The SA includes a housing with electrical contacts for interfacing with the fuze electronics.

A rotor support supports a rotor via rotor shaft . Rotor may rotate with respect to rotor support and is biased for rotation by a spring not shown . The electrical detonator is disposed in the housing in a fixed position. The output charge is disposed in the rotor and moves with the rotor . In the unarmed position of the electrical detonator and output charge are angularly displaced from one another by for example 90 degrees. As shown in a known three leaf mechanism holds rotor pin in place in crescent shaped opening . At launch setback acceleration causes three leaf mechanism to function and release rotor pin thereby allowing the rotor to rotate a first amount for example twenty degrees. The three leaf mechanism comprises the first SA lock. With the first lock removed the SA is in the position shown in .

An advantage of the SA is that the detonation of the output charge is not dependent on electrical contact with the electric detonator . is a schematic cutaway of the SA in the armed position. Output charge disposed in rotor is now adjacent electric detonator . In prior devices electrical contacts connected the detonator to the output charge . The contacts on the output charge side moved with the rotor . During projectile deceleration the electrical contacts were often not making a consistent connection thereby increasing the probability of detonator failing to ignite the output charge . In the SA a channel in the rotor provides a route for the explosive output of detonator to ignite the output charge . The SA does not rely on moving electrical contacts to ignite the output charge .

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

