---

title: Operations on document components filtered via text attributes
abstract: Methods, apparatuses, systems, and media to perform operations on filtered components of documents are disclosed. Embodiments comprise a method of performing an operation on selected components of an electronic document using at least one criterion to filter selected parts from other parts of the electronic document. In some embodiments, the method includes analyzing the electronic document to generate the filtering criteria. One embodiment includes presenting a list of filtering criteria to a user, whereupon the user may choose one or more criteria. Other variations of embodiments generally include apparatuses, systems and media that allow a user to choose specific text fonts, text styles, text entry dates, and text entry authors as filtering criteria, for such operations as spell checking, grammar checking, printing, and copying the document components, or text.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07996768&OS=07996768&RS=07996768
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07996768
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060518
---
The present invention generally relates to the fields of electronic documents Graphical User Interfaces GUIs Applications Programming Interfaces APIs subroutines algorithms document editing applications and rules engines. More particularly the present invention relates to methods apparatuses and computer program products for performing operations on selective components of electronic documents based on one or more component attributes.

As personal computers PCs handheld PCs and other electronic devices running applications have become more sophisticated over the years the utilities and features available in these applications have also become more sophisticated. These applications utilities and features allow a user to interact with the electronic devices by inputting commands inputting data and receiving results from the applications and devices usually through user interfaces. Among the various interfaces available Graphical User Interfaces GUIs and Application Programming Interfaces APIs have become very popular for interacting with these electronic devices as well as viewing and modifying documents contained in the electronic devices.

An example utility common among many applications today which may be implemented in a GUI or through an API is a spell checking routine. While spell checking routines historically only appeared in programs such as word processors such routines are now found in e mail applications spreadsheet applications database applications Hyper Text Markup Language HTML editors and internet browsers. Spell checking routines as well as other routines and application features have matured considerably in the past decade. For example current spell checking utilities usually suggest multiple spellings for unrecognized words and usually provide support for multiple languages.

Even though these utilities and application routines have matured and are certainly useful they still lack many benefits when evaluated in terms of user efficiency. Current incarnations of these utilities often require significant wasted effort on the part of a user. Most of the utilities or functions in applications often require the user to work with an entire document. However often times the user may only want to work with a small portion of the document. The amount of time spent working with the remaining portion of the document instead of only the small portion on which the user desires to work is wasted time. An example will help explain this efficiency loss.

A person may receive a very long e mail message containing both information and questions to which the recipient may need to respond. Instead of typing a standard conversational reply the recipient may choose to respond to the questions of the e mail message by typing answers and comments directly below the questions. To call attention to the answers and comments entered into the e mail message reply the recipient may format the text of the answers and the comments. For example the recipient may choose another color for the text or make the text a larger font. Before sending the e mail to the sender the recipient may wish to check the spelling of the answers and comments. The recipient may find one spelling error in the answers and comments but find thirty six errors in the original e mail message. While the time needed to correct the single error may take five or six seconds the time needed to choose to ignore the thirty six errors may take one or two minutes.

Presently there are no effective and efficient solutions to eliminate this wasted effort. Some users may select individual portions of text by using a mouse and spell check the individual portions. However this method is tedious and cumbersome especially for lengthy documents. There is therefore a need in the art for more efficient and user friendly methods apparatuses and systems for selective component verification of documents.

The problems identified above are in large part addressed by methods apparatuses systems and media to perform operations on filtered components of documents. One embodiment comprises a method of performing an operation on selected parts of an electronic document. At least one criterion is used to filter selected parts from other parts of the electronic document whereupon one or more operations are performed on the selected parts. One variation of the method includes analyzing or scanning the electronic document to generate the filtering criteria. Another variation includes presenting a list of filtering criteria to a user whereupon the user may choose one or more criteria to filter the selected parts in the electronic document. Other variations of the method generally include choosing specific text fonts text styles text entry dates and text entry authors as the filtering criteria for such operations as spell checking grammar checking printing and copying the document components or text.

Other embodiments comprise an apparatus to select elements in a document for an operation comprising a rule selector a comparator and an operation module. Variations of the apparatus may permit the user to pick one or more rules to be used by the comparator. The rule selector may comprise a textual or graphical interface.

A further embodiment comprises a machine accessible medium containing instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform a word processing operation in response to presenting a list of document parameters to a user choosing at least one of the parameters by the user and performing the word processing operation on components of the document selected in response to the chosen parameters.

The following is a detailed description of example embodiments of the invention depicted in the accompanying drawings. The example embodiments are in such detail as to clearly communicate the invention. However the amount of detail offered is not intended to limit the anticipated variations of embodiments but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. The detailed descriptions below are designed to make such embodiments obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art.

Generally speaking methods apparatuses and systems for performing operations on selective components such as characters of documents are disclosed. Embodiments comprise GUI screens and application interfaces which may be configured to display and program a variety of different component selection parameters that may be used to filter unwanted components such as previously entered sections of text and perform operations on the remaining content. In some embodiments a user may pick component selection parameters from a drop down menu. In other embodiments the user may pick the parameters from pop up windows. In even further embodiments the user may pick the parameters after pressing a key combination. In some embodiments a user may perform one or more operations on selected components or portions of a document based on text formatting. In other embodiments the user may perform operations on certain portions of the document such as text portions based on which user or users entered the portions.

Different embodiments may perform different operations on selected components. For example some embodiments may allow a person to check the spelling of certain portions of text in an e mail. Other embodiments may allow a person to print selected or filtered sections from a word processing document. Aside from the types of operations that may be performed embodiments may be implemented in countless consumer electronic devices such as desktop and laptop computers mainframe computing systems and numerous portable computing devices such as personal digital assistants PDAs and mobile telephones.

While portions of the following detailed discussion describe many embodiments for selecting text within electronic documents and checking the text spelling upon review of the teachings herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that different components of documents and files may be selected and altered using numerous variations of the methods discussed. For example one may select certain numerical formulas in a spreadsheet and perform one or more different operations such as change the format of the numbers. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that such variations may be substituted for these described methods and employed in accordance with similar constraints to perform substantially equivalent functions.

Turning to the drawings illustrates a system which may comprise several different embodiments for verifying performing operations on and modifying selective components of documents. For example system may allow a user to check the grammar of selected components such as portions of text in a word processing document based upon parameters that the user chooses. System may exist in a variety of different forms such as a desktop or a laptop computer. In other embodiments system may comprise a wireless personal digital assistant PDA or other similar palm held personal computing device.

System may have a processor capable of executing program instructions for different types of applications such as application application and application that may be in memory . For example application may be a word processing application capable of editing numerous documents simultaneously. As depicted in application may have two documents open such as document and document . Each document may have multiple components. As depicted in document may have a first component a second component and a third component . A component may be any section of a document on which an application may perform operations. Components may include one or more of a section of text e.g. word phrase sentence paragraph document section etc. a region of a document e.g. header footer signature block table of contents etc. text with one or more character attributes e.g. italicized bolded a particular font or text size highlighted text etc. non text objects e.g. imported objects spreadsheet cells image files etc. or other portions of a document. Each component may be a paragraph a sentence or a page of text in document as examples. Each component may also include control characters used to format the text such as characters representing new line bold text color center alignment new paragraph etc.

System may display documents and on a display . Display may allow the user to read documents and as well as edit them. The user may edit documents and using input device . For example input device may comprise a keyboard. In other embodiments input device may comprise a mouse. In alternative embodiments input device may comprise a keyboard and mouse combination such as laptop keyboard with an integrated joystick mouse. In further embodiments input device may comprise a tablet and stylus such as a pressure sensitive surface in a PDA that recognizes hand written characters. In even further embodiments input device may comprise an audible input device such as a microphone used for speech recognition.

System may store documents and in a storage device . For example storage device may comprise a parallel or serial ATA hard drive. Storage device may also comprise an optical storage device such as a rewritable compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD drive. In other embodiments storage device may comprise a flash memory device such as a universal serial bus USB thumb drive. In addition to storing documents and storage device may also store applications and . System may also use storage device in conjunction with memory temporarily buffering portions of application application application document and document in storage device that cannot entirely fit in memory . For example while spell checking a portion of document system may need to store a portion of application or document in storage device because of insufficient memory .

While using system the user may start application which may be a word processing application and open document . Components and may have existed in document before the user opened it. The user may also add component . Before closing or saving document the user may wish to check the grammar of component . To do so the user may invoke a grammar checking routine using input device . In executing the routine the user may first choose one or more parameters or rules as inputs for the grammar checking routine that cause it only to check certain sections of document . Continuing with our example since the user only wants to check the spelling of component the user may choose one or more parameters relating to the date that component is added to the document. Since components and were added at an earlier date the grammar checking routine may ignore the grammar of them and only check the grammar of component which will have an entry date matching date the parameters selected by the user.

Similar to the manner in which the user added component to document the user may also have added components to document . In some embodiments the grammar checking routine may be configured to check the grammar of selective components in document based upon the parameters. In other words some embodiments may employ an algorithm or rules engine capable of checking multiple documents within an application in response to a single set of selected parameters. Additionally some embodiments may employ routines or algorithms that may verify the components of documents in multiple applications. For example processor may execute a separate routine in memory of system that verifies and modifies selective components in documents of applications and in addition to documents and of application based on a single selection of component selection parameters.

As discussed in the preceding example application of system may be a word processing application used to verify and perform operations on selected components of a word processing document document . In an alternative embodiment application may instead be a spreadsheet application with components and being text or formulas in cells and groups of cells. In another embodiment application may be a database program with components and being database records. In an even further embodiment application may comprise an HTML editor editing textual and or graphical components of a web page or HTML documents.

Additionally while the preceding example discussed a system employing local memory and local storage device alternative embodiments may comprise a system executing or accessing programs and documents in remote locations. For example application may actually comprise two programs one on a local client system and another on a remote server system. The local client program may be a web browser running a Java application for a web page. The web page may have been downloaded from a web server on the remote server system. The user may use application to insert components and into document which may be stored remotely on the remote server system. As a person skilled in the art will quickly appreciate system may include numerous communication and networking modules with almost unlimited combinations of local and remote memory and storage devices.

In allowing the user to view modify and save documents system may employ a graphical window system comprising menu elements and submenu elements within numerous windows shown on display . To further illustrate how the user may add components to documents such as adding component to document we turn now to . illustrates a number of graphical user interface elements on a GUI screen . GUI screen may be displayed on a variety of electronic devices. For example GUI screen may be shown on a display screen like display of system in which may be an LCD screen of a PDA or laptop computer or a CRT screen of a desktop computer. GUI screen may have one or more document elements or sections such as paragraph paragraph paragraph and question .

Paragraphs and question may comprise characters of an e mail document sent from a sender to a recipient. For the sake of illustration suppose that the sender sent the e mail shown on GUI screen to the recipient to convey information to the recipient as well as request information from the recipient. For example paragraphs and may comprise statements summarizing meeting minutes for a meeting that both the sender and recipient attended. In the context of those paragraphs the sender may desire a response from the recipient evident from question .

In responding to the e mail the recipient could create an entirely new e mail document. Alternatively the recipient may choose a Reply feature of the e mail program which may copy and resend the components including the text of the original e mail document. Responding in this manner may allow the recipient to enter comments responses and answers immediately near the corresponding paragraphs of the original e mail document in order to provide context.

An example e mail reply document is shown in . Similar to the original e mail document shown on GUI screen GUI screen shows a window containing the e mail reply document containing both the original text entered by the sender and the reply text inserted by the recipient. More specifically GUI screen shows the addition of comments and answer corresponding to paragraphs and question shown in . Two items of importance are worth emphasizing. First one should note how each of the comments are placed immediately next to each corresponding paragraphs. Second one should also note that each of the items in the original e mail document paragraphs and question and the new comments in the reply e mail document comments and answer are all separate components. As mentioned above a component may be any section of a document on which an application may perform operations and on which a user may desire to selectively perform one or more operations.

To differentiate the reply text component from the original text component the recipient may format the reply text differently than the original text by formatting the text using different text attributes. As shown in GUI screen of the original text formatting for paragraphs and question may have a bold Times New Roman font. In the e mail reply document of GUI screen the formatting of the reply text characters or character attributes for comments and answer may have an italicized and un bolded Courier font.

Before sending the e mail reply document to the sender the recipient may desire to check the spelling of the reply text characters. Instead of wasting time and checking or verifying the content or components of the entire e mail reply document the recipient may use an embodiment to check only text characters associated with the reply text. In other words the recipient may utilize an embodiment to check the spelling of comments and answer while ignoring any spelling errors in paragraphs and question .

To filter or separate the original text from the reply text the recipient may choose a set of text selection parameters that are sent to a program algorithm or routine wherein the algorithm skips or ignores the original text and verifies only the reply text. For example the recipient may choose a text parameter of Italic and send the parameter to the filtering algorithm such that the filtering algorithm only selects italic text. The filtering algorithm may work in conjunction with another algorithm that checks the spelling of the italic text. For example in the recipient may request the spell checking routine to check only the reply text which has italic formatting by instructing the spell checking routine to only check text that has italic formatting. Consequently the spell checking routine may start progressing through text in the e mail reply document in . The routine may ignore the first section of text in paragraph since it has no italic text. Upon reaching comment however the routine may recognize that comment has italic formatting and start checking the text of comment for spelling errors. Comment may contain no spelling errors. As a result the spell checking routine may not alter the text but merely verify that the words are spelt correctly.

Upon verifying the spelling of the words in comment the routine may then start analyzing the text of paragraph . Since the text of paragraph is not formatted with italic text the routine may skip it and not check its spelling. After skipping paragraph the routine may then start analyzing comments . Since comments have text formatted in italics the routine may again start checking the text of comment for spelling errors. Unlike the text in comment which had no spelling errors text in comment may contain a spelling error. The routine may detect the spelling error display the error to the user and prompt the user with a list of suggested words. The user may correct or ignore the error after which the routine may continue checking the rest of the text in comment . This sequence of checking italic text for spelling errors and ignoring all other text may continue until the routine has reached the end of the document. For example the routine may check the text of comment and answer while ignoring text of paragraph and question .

To illustrate a selective spell checking user interface screen for an embodiment we turn now to . shows a window having tabbed pages and which may comprise a user interface used to communicate character attributes to a user. Window may allow the user to choose a set of parameters criteria or character and text attributes which may be fed to a rules engine in order to verify certain sections of content in an electronic document. Upon selecting the By Text Format tabbed page the user may select a variety of text attributes that may be received and used by the rules engine to filter out text not meeting the text attributes and verify only text matching the attributes. For example the user may select different choices in the drop down boxes corresponding to radio buttons and which correspond to parameters for text font text size and text color respectively. Possible choices for the drop down boxes corresponding to radio buttons and may be Courier Times New Roman 12 pt. 14 pt. Blue and Black to name only a few. Such parameter choices for the drop down boxes may be obtained or generated after an algorithm analyzes components in a document on which the user is working.

The user may choose additional text and or character attributes on the By Text Format tabbed page such as text case radio button text position radio button text alignment radio button and language radio button . Possible alternative choices for the drop down box corresponding to text case radio button may be All Caps Initial Caps Normal Title case Uppercase and Lowercase . Possible alternative choices for the drop down box corresponding to text position radio button may be Normal and Superscript . Similarly choices for the drop down box corresponding to text alignment radio button may be Left Center Right Top Bottom and Middle referring to possible text justifications. Possible alternative choices for the drop down box corresponding to the language radio button may be Danish English French German Italian Russian and Spanish to name just a few.

The By Text Format tabbed page may also have a section where the user can select parameters for the style of text formatting. More specifically tabbed page may have a Bold checkbox an Italic checkbox an Underline checkbox and a Small Caps checkbox . While the user may select only one of the style checkboxes in section such as the Bold checkbox shown in the user may also select two three all or none of the checkboxes. With the Bold checkbox chosen the rules engine may only indicate a match when portions of text in the document have bold formatting. Similarly if the user had selected both the Bold checkbox and the Italic checkbox the rules engine may then only indicate a match when portions of text in the document have a bold italic formatted text.

The By Text Format tabbed page may also have a section to choose parameters related to text indentation a section to choose parameters related to text spacing and a section to choose parameters related to line spacing. In the indentation section the user may use a scroll feature to choose text indentation parameters for left text indentation and right text indentation . For example the user may only want to invoke the rules engine for text that is indented inches from the left hand margin of the document. Similarly the user may use a scroll feature to choose text spacing parameters for point spacing before element and point spacing after element . Likewise the user may choose parameters relating to line spacing of text with a drop down or scrolling box . For example the user may desire to check the spelling of all text that is double spaced.

Moving now to we see how a user may choose rules engine component characteristics to filter components related to different users such as which users entered which text on which dates. Window in illustrates what a user may see after clicking the By User tabbed page of . As depicted shows that tabbed page may have two radio buttons and . The user may use a mouse to choose radio button whereupon the user may then choose one or more users or document authors from a list of users that have edited the document. For example assume that the user is editing a word processing document shared by hundreds of people in one or more offices. Assume further that the word processing application used to edit the document saves information pertaining to changes made by individual users. In other words the application may associate separate users with each of their changes enabling a person to see which users make which changes. As mentioned the user may select the name of the one or more users that have edited the document. For example individual users may select their names as well as the names of other users in their workgroup who have edited the document. In doing so the users could trigger spelling and grammar checking only for text or other content entered by them and their workgroup.

In addition to tracking and associating specific changes with specific users the word processing application may also track the dates and times that the specific users made the changes. For embodiments of programs that track such information the user may choose radio button and select the name of a prior editor of the document. In doing so the user may be able to verify the content of all changes made to the document by a particular user.

The text parameters shown on tabbed pages and in B and C are example criteria and component characteristics that the user may choose after invoking a parameter selection routine but before invoking a spellchecking routine. In various embodiments tabbed pages and may be invoked in a variety of different ways. In some embodiments such tabbed pages may be invoked from a drop down menu. In other embodiments the pages may be invoked by a control key combination. For example the user may press Control Shift S to display the tabbed pages.

In some embodiments after the user chooses a combination of text filtering parameters the user may save the combination for subsequent use. For example the text filtering parameter choices may be saved in an E mail Response Preferences page for an e mail application. Alternatively tabbed pages and may be the initial screens presented to the user after the user invokes the spellchecking routine. In the latter case the associated application may not save any of the text parameters for later use whereupon the user may need to choose the new text filtering parameters each time the spellchecking routine is invoked.

While tabbed pages and shown in B and C are depicted as text filtering parameters for performing a spellchecking operation on selective text alternative embodiments may perform other operations on selective text. In other words the user may choose text filtering parameters in order to print selective content. For example the user may want to retain a printout of an e mail response text. Other embodiments may perform other operations on the selective content or components according to the text filtering parameters such as delete cut copy encrypt format e mail or translate. Conversely while tabbed pages and shown in B and C illustrate text filtering parameters different embodiments may comprise different parameters for document content filtering other than text. For example some embodiments may have filtering parameters for spreadsheet cells database records or web page elements.

Turning now to there is shown an embodiment of an apparatus that may be used to select components in documents in preparation for operations on the selected components. As depicted in apparatus may comprise a rule selector a comparator and an operation module . The rule selector the comparator and the operation module may all work in conjunction with each other to selectively filter out certain components of a document and perform one or more operations on the filtered components.

Rule selector may comprise a GUI allowing a user to select one more rules wherein the rules may be sent to rules engine or filtering algorithm and used to filter out components in the document . For example rule selector may comprise a collection of checkboxes drop down boxes and radio buttons communicating to the user various component characteristics such as text formatting parameters similar to the collection shown on tabbed page in . Alternatively in other embodiments rule selector may comprise a drop down list or pull down menu which may be invoked by a keyboard key sequence a mouse click or stylus contact on a PDA screen. In even further embodiments rule selector may comprise a parameterized list stored in a file on some storage medium. The file may be periodically accessed by an application when the application performs one or more operations on selective components of the document . The file may be static and unalterable by the user or the user may be able to edit the file using a file editing program.

Comparator may comprise a program algorithm subroutine or rules engine that receives the selected filtering rules from rule selector and sequentially compares one or more components of the document with the rules. For one example comparator may pull in components such as paragraphs of text for a word processing document such as the document and search for characters and words in the paragraphs of text that have Red or Underlined formatting. As a second example comparator may pull in text blocks from an HTML document and search for components such as characters and words that have particular formatting or components that are located in specific sections of the HTML document. As a third example comparator may pull in text blocks from a database document and search for components such as fields and records which were added to the database document on a particular date. In some embodiments comparator may sequentially compare components of the document against the selected rules. In other embodiments comparator may compare components of the document against the rules in a different manner such as randomly until the entire document has been compared. After the comparison comparator may pass the filtered components or those components matching the criteria to operation module .

Operation module may comprise an application algorithm or subroutine that alters or performs some operation on the filtered components transferred or passed from comparator . For example operation module may check the spelling of all text from the document that has been underlined. In some embodiments operation module may perform some initial operation such as checking the spelling of text and then perform a second operation such as presenting misspelled text to the user for correction. In other words operation module may perform multiple operations. Also the types of operations that operation module performs may vary widely in different embodiments. In some embodiments operation module may for example print the filtered components. In some embodiments operation module may delete cut or copy the filtered components. In even further embodiments operation module may encrypt format translate or e mail the filtered components. The operation or operations performed by operation module may vary widely therefore based on the needs of the associated application.

An embodiment of flowchart continues by adding new components to the electronic document element . In some embodiments adding new components may comprise adding new HTML text to the HTML document. In other embodiments adding new components may comprise adding new database records to a database or correcting one more records that already exist in the database. In alternative embodiments adding new components may comprise inserting text and other characters into cells of a spreadsheet.

A system according to the embodiment of may proceed by analyzing the electronic document to generate filtering criteria element . The application used to edit the electronic document may have a subroutine that examines the components of the electronic document and develops a list of document attributes that components in electronic document may possess. For example a subroutine in the HTML text editor may examine the text of the HTML document being edited and develop a list of parameters or text format criteria used in the HTML document. If the HTML document contains red text white text and blue text the subroutine may generate a list containing red white and blue as choices for available text format parameters. The document and component attributes may comprise these example text format parameters.

Upon analyzing the electronic document in generating the filtering criteria element an embodiment according to may continue by presenting the filtering criteria to the user element . Once presented with this list of filtering criteria the user may choose at least one criterion from the filtering criteria element . For example the user may be presented a list of possible text colors to choose from a drop down box whereupon the user may choose red and white as filtering criteria.

After the user chooses one or more of the filtering criteria the document editing application may continue by filtering selected components of the electronic document from other components based upon the chosen criteria element . For example the HTML text editor may examine the HTML document and distinguish which text has either red or white formatting. After filtering the selected components from the other components in the electronic document based on the filtering criteria element an embodiment may continue by performing an operation on the selected components element . For example the user may desire to print all red and white text that has been entered into the HTML document and initiate a Selective Print command from a drop down menu of the HTML text editor application. The HTML text editor application may select all red and white formatted text in the HTML document and send it to a local printer attached to the personal computer. An embodiment according to may continue by allowing the user to continue editing the electronic document element or allowing the user to exit the document editing application.

Alternative embodiments similar to the embodiment depicted in may have fewer or more elements. For example an alternative embodiment may not comprise analyzing electronic document to generate filtering criteria element . Instead the document editing application may instead present the user with a standardized list of filtering criteria. An example standardized list may be the list of parameters shown in B and C. As for an example embodiment having more elements an application may allow a user to pre select a portion of the electronic document for analyzing filtering and modifying. Continuing with our example from above the HTML document may contain six or seven pages of HTML encoded text. The HTML text editor application may allow the user to first select two middle pages from the six or seven and then perform the analyzing element choosing filtering and operate on only those two pages in the middle of the HTML document.

Another embodiment of the invention is implemented as a program product for use with a system to perform an operation on an electronic document in accordance with e.g. flowchart as shown in . The program s of the program product defines functions of the embodiments including the methods described herein and can be contained on a variety of data and or signal bearing media. Illustrative data and or signal bearing media include but are not limited to i information permanently stored on non writable storage media e.g. read only memory devices within a computer such as CD ROM disks readable by a CD ROM drive ii alterable information stored on writable storage media e.g. floppy disks within a diskette drive or hard disk drive and iii information conveyed to a computer by a communications medium such as through a computer or telephone network including wireless communications. The latter embodiment specifically includes information downloaded from the internet and other networks. Such data and or signal bearing media when carrying computer readable instructions that direct the functions of the present invention represent embodiments of the present invention.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention may be part of an operating system or a specific application component program module object or sequence of instructions. The computer program of the present invention typically is comprised of a multitude of instructions that will be translated by a computer into a machine readable format and hence executable instructions. Also programs are comprised of variables and data structures that either reside locally to the program or are found in memory or on storage devices. In addition various programs described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application for which they are implemented in a specific embodiment of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature that follows is used merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the present invention contemplates methods systems and apparatuses for performing operations on selected or filtered components of an electronic document. It is understood that the form of the invention shown and described in the detailed description and the drawings are to be taken merely as examples. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted broadly to embrace all the variations of the example embodiments disclosed.

Although the present invention and some of its advantages have been described in detail for some embodiments it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Further embodiments may achieve multiple objectives but not every embodiment falling within the scope of the attached claims will achieve every objective. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

