---

title: Methods and systems for imaging device form field management
abstract: Aspects of the present invention relate to systems, methods and devices for modifying and managing form documents with an application that receives input from an imaging device user interface and from other sources. Some aspects relate to a input field definition file that is transmitted to the imaging device and which comprises display parameters and UI options for prompting a user for field input and as well as instructions for obtaining field data from other sources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941743&OS=07941743&RS=07941743
owner: Sharp Laboratories of America, Inc.
number: 07941743
owner_city: Camas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060818
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 256 493 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Document Modification filed on Oct. 21 2005 which is a continuation in part of 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 192 615 entitled Methods and Systems for Providing Remote File Structure Access on an Imaging Device filed on Jul. 29 2005 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 233 270 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Display Standardization filed on Sep. 22 2005 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 962 248 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Application Interaction filed on Oct. 8 2004 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 793 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Form Management filed on Oct. 8 2004 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 911 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Location Functions filed on Oct. 8 2004 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 594 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote document Management filed on Oct. 8 2004 and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 962 103 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Document Translation filed on Oct. 8 2004 

and which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 704 066 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Applications filed Jul. 28 2005.

Imaging devices such as printers copiers scanners and fax machines can have a wide array of functions and capabilities to fit specific uses or combinations of uses. Imaging devices often take the form of a multi function peripheral device MFP that combines the functions of two or more of the traditionally separated imaging devices. An MFP may combine any number of imaging devices but typically comprises the functions of a printer scanner copier and fax machine.

Some imaging devices may contain computing resources for data storage and processing such as processors hard disk drives memory and other devices. As imaging devices add more features and functions they become more costly and complex.

More complex imaging devices and MFPs may comprise network connectivity to provide communication with other computing devices such as personal computers other imaging devices network servers and other apparatus. This connectivity allows the imaging device to utilize off board resources that are available on a connected network.

Imaging devices typically have a user input panel with an array of buttons knobs and other user input devices. Some devices also have a display panel which can be for display only or can be a touch panel display that enables user input directly on the display.

Devices with touch panel displays or displays with buttons arranged in cooperation with the display can display menu data that may be selected by user input. This menu data is typically driven by an on board server module within the imaging device.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise systems methods and devices for interacting with a remote computing device from an imaging device. These embodiments comprise remote computing devices configured to communicate with imaging devices imaging devices configured to communicate with remote computing devices and systems comprising various combinations of remote computing devices in communication with imaging devices.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise systems and methods for modifying documents with an imaging device. Some of these methods comprise the entry of document field data through an imaging device user interface. Some of these methods comprise automated entry of document field data.

The foregoing and other objectives features and advantages of the invention will be more readily understood upon consideration of the following detailed description of the invention taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout. The figures listed above are expressly incorporated as part of this detailed description.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the methods and systems of the present invention is not intended to limit the scope of the invention but it is merely representative of the presently preferred embodiments of the invention.

Elements of embodiments of the present invention may be embodied in hardware firmware and or software. While exemplary embodiments revealed herein may only describe one of these forms it is to be understood that one skilled in the art would be able to effectuate these elements in any of these forms while resting within the scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise interfaces and architecture that integrate imaging devices with remote computing device applications and environments to provide solutions that may not be possible solely with an imaging device alone. Some embodiments comprise an infrastructure and set of interfaces that allow applications on a network to programmatically control imaging device functions and interact with a user through an imaging device input panel. Software functions that are not practical within the imaging device can be performed on the server but are accessible from the imaging device.

For the purposes of this specification and claims an imaging device IDev may be described as a device that performs an imaging function. Imaging functions comprise scanning printing copying image transmission sending and receiving image conversion and other functions. Exemplary imaging devices comprise printers copiers facsimile machines scanners computing devices that transmit convert or process images and other devices. An IDev may also perform multiple imaging functions. For example and not by way of limitation a multi function peripheral device MFP which typically has the capability to perform a plurality of functions comprising a printer scanner copier and or a facsimile machine or image transmitter receiver is a type of imaging device. Other MFP imaging devices may comprise other combinations of functions and still qualify as an IDev.

For the purposes of this specification and claims a remote computing device RCD is a device capable of processing data and communicating with other devices through a communications link. An RCD is a remote device because it requires a communications link such as a network connection a telephone line a serial cable or some other wired or wireless link to communicate with other devices such as an imaging device. Some exemplary RCDs are network servers networked computers and other processing and storage devices that have communications links.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . These embodiments comprise an imaging device IDev that may be a multi function peripheral device MFP or a single function device. The imaging device further comprises a user interface UI panel which may comprise input buttons and a display device or may comprise a touch panel system with or without buttons . User input and display may also be performed through a separate UI device which may be connected to the imaging device by a communication link such as a USB connection a network cable a wireless connection or some other communications link. UI device may comprise an input device such as a keyboard or buttons as well as a display device which may also be a touch screen panel. UI device may also comprise an interface for transfer of instructions that are input to the device from a remote input device. This form of UI device may comprise memory sticks USB memory cards and other storage devices that may be configured to store input for transfer to an imaging device.

These embodiments further comprise a remote computing device RCD that is linked to the imaging device via a communications link such as a network connection. This network connection may be a typical wired connection or a wireless link.

Embodiments of the present invention may provide menu data from the RCD to the imaging device UI panel or remote panel via the network connection . Once this menu data is fed to the imaging device an UI panel on the imaging device may be used to interact with applications that run on the remote computing device . User input received from UI panels may be returned directly to the remote computing device .

A Web Service is a software application identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier URI whose interfaces and binding are capable of being defined described and discovered by Extensible Markup Language XML artifacts and supports direct interactions with other software applications using XML based messages via Internet based protocols.

An application on the remote computing device may use one or more Web Services to control various features in the imaging device such as enabling disabling or setting device values or controlling device functions.

Embodiments of the present invention allow network applications running on remote computing devices to interact with the user of the imaging device through the imaging device I O panel. These embodiments allow imaging device user interface UI control i.e. touch panel button display by applications. Some embodiments may also integrate custom display screens or menus with the native imaging device UI. Embodiments may hand off control of imaging device functions between standard operation modes performed on the imaging device in response to user input to an imaging device UI and open systems modes that utilize network resources such as applications on RCDs through user input at the imaging device UI.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise network based applications that have full control over the imaging device UI to display text and graphics in any format. In these embodiments the application can programmatically display buttons textboxes graphics etc. in any layout desired.

In some embodiments the UI layout is easy to program using a standard language such as a markup language. These languages comprise Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Wireless Markup Language WML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML and other languages.

In some embodiments of the present invention a remote computing device application or server application is able to request a keyboard UI to be displayed on the imaging device display . In some embodiments this functionality is available on the imaging device and does not need to be recreated by remote computing device applications. In some embodiments the remote computing device may define the keyboard prompt and default values. These embodiments may comprise a remote computing device that is able to rename imaging device UI buttons such as the OK and Cancel buttons as well as define additional buttons.

In some embodiments menu templates may be served to the imaging device UI by the imaging device itself or from a remote computing device .

Some embodiments of the present invention may comprise a remote computing device application that is registered as the External Authorization server. The External Authorization application may control access to the imaging device and may have top level control of the UI. UI control may be given to this application in the same manner that control is given to an internal auditor.

In these embodiments when an imaging device system boots it checks to see if an External Authorization application is registered. If so the imaging device is placed in disabled mode and the application is contacted to take control of the UI. If the External Authorization server is not available an error message may be displayed and the device may remain disabled. The imaging device may periodically try to contact the External Authorization server until it is available. Table 1 below describes what entity has control of the UI in an exemplary embodiment when the device is in a disabled state.

In embodiments of the present invention access to the custom UI panels of imaging devices may vary from application to application. Some solutions such as Document Management integration may wish to leverage the native Image Send screens but display some custom UI s to gather additional information about a scan job. Other solutions like custom printing applications may be accessed from a separate mode than the native functions.

In order to accommodate the diversified needs of these solutions applications embodiments may support multiple integration points for UI control. These integration points are based on a user action trigger for which applications may register. In some embodiments applications may be registered with target devices so that the device knows that when trigger A occurs on the front panel to contact remote computing device B for instructions. In exemplary embodiments applications may be integrated with an imaging device at any of several trigger points.

Remote computing devices may be registered to a specific function and contacted when that function s hardware key is pressed e.g. Image Send on the imaging device UI. Any UI information provided by the remote computing device may be displayed instead of the standard function screens native to the imaging device. This trigger may be used for applications that wish to replace the existing functions with completely custom UI s such as an alternative scan solution or a specialized display such as a Section 508 compatible screen or other specialized need interface that may have large buttons or other accommodations.

In some embodiments each function on the imaging device may have a menu on the touch screen that remote computing devices such as servers can register. This enables solutions applications to provide custom content and still use some of the standard functionality provided by the imaging device. When a button assigned to a custom application is selected a menu will be displayed with the solutions registered to that function. Users may select the desired solution and the remote computing device will be contacted for instructions.

In some embodiments a stand alone RCD mode that provides remote computing device application access can be accessed from the job queue portion of the UI that is displayed on every screen. This trigger point may be used for applications that do not fit within one of the standard device functions such as custom printing solutions on an imaging device. When the RCD menu is selected a menu will be displayed with the solutions applications registered to the generic RCD mode. Users will select the desired solution and the remote computing device will be contacted for instructions.

In some embodiments of the present invention when an imaging device is enabled additional hardware keys may be used to manage the device. Hardware key assignments for an exemplary embodiment are shown in table 2.

In some embodiments in addition to the key for logout a timeout period may be implemented. Some embodiments also comprise an auto clear setting that can be configured for a given period of time such as 10 to 240 seconds or disabled . In these embodiments when there is no activity for the time configured in auto clear the device may automatically return to disabled mode and attempt to contact a remote computing device to retake control of the UI.

Depending on a particular solution a remote computing device application may have full or only partial control of the imaging device UI and a particular imaging job. In some embodiments partial control may include cases where a remote computing device is monitoring clicks but native modes are responsible for the UI interaction and controlling the job. Partial control may also include cases where the remote computing device application is integrated with a native mode UI trigger function custom menu . In these embodiments the imaging device may handle all error and jam notifications with only a notification sent to the relevant remote computing device application.

For some embodiments in cases where the remote computing device application has full control over the UI and the job error and jam notifications may be handled differently depending on the type of error. For recoverable errors a notification may be sent to the remote computing device application and the application may be responsible for displaying messages and resolving the error. For non recoverable errors the imaging device and RCD mode may interact to gracefully handle the error condition e.g. provide user with instructions for clearing jam .

In some embodiments at different points throughout an imaging job several applications may need control over an imaging device including but not limited to an External Authorization application a standard RCD application an imaging device native mode and other applications. The following section describes for an exemplary embodiment the various steps in an exemplary job the entities that may have control during each step and what type of control may be allowed.

Step 1 User provides credentials to access the device at the device UI. This step may be controlled by a remote computing device such as an External Authorization application or by Internal Accounting native mode in the imaging device itself. At the end of this step the device is enabled. The External Authorization application may also specify default parameters or disable specific job parameters e.g. default file format is PDF but user may change color mode is set to B W and user may not change .

Step 2 User sets parameters for the job using one of the native imaging device modes or a standard RCD application. At the end of this step the user makes an input to initiate the job. When the input is made an optional notification may be sent to the standard RCD application which can then change job parameters if desired. An e mail application is one example of an application that may request notification when the user input is made. A user may use native Image Send screens or other input to select scan options and choose e mail recipients. A user may then select a custom application button and choose the scan to e mail option from the menu. The e mail application may then display custom screens for the user to set permissions for the file. Once a user places the original document s on the scanner and initiates the process the e mail application may capture the destination parameters set by the user and change the target destination to the e mail application FTP server. The e mail application may then receive the file apply the appropriate permissions and send to the e mail recipients selected by the user. A remote computing device application may also want to retake control of the UI at this point if as in some embodiments the application generates thumbnails of the scanned images and displays them to the user for verification.

Step 3 Once the job is initiated the imaging device is responsible for scanning or RIPing the job and spooling it to the HDD. If the imaging device is configured to authorize jobs with an external authorization application it may send a click report to the application and wait for instructions. The external authorization application may enable the job for sending printing cancel the job or change job parameters and then enable . As an example a rules based printing application may wish to change job parameters after it receives a click report. Some rules based printing applications support rules based printing and scanning that can limit what each user is allowed to do based on the time of day the destination or many other parameters. For example only users in the marketing group may be able to scan high quality color images. If a user from another group selects color and 600 dpi a rules based application may change the parameters to color and 200 dpi. At the end of this step the job should either be authorized or canceled.

Step 4 In some embodiments this may be an optional step where the standard RCD application in step 2 may have specified the destination as a HDD for temporary storage. This step may also be used in some embodiments by a Java application running on the imaging device. For example a government office may have a custom encryption application running on the device that takes the scanned document encrypts it and then requests the imaging device to send it to the target destination selected by the user in step 2. In some embodiments it may be beneficial to send a notification to the external authorization application after this step because the imaging device does not know how long the file will be on the HDD or what the application is going to do with it and after the send print step.

Step 5 In the final step the file is actually output. In typical embodiments the file is either sent over the network or printed locally. At the end of this step a notification that the job was successfully completed should be sent to the external authorization application and optionally to the standard RCD application.

The API s may be used to allow a remote computing device application to control access to an imaging device for vend applications and to manage the device from a remote location.

In some embodiments of the present invention a Device Control and Vend API allows applications to enable and disable access to the device and track click counts. The Device Control and Vend API may provide an RCD with the following controls 

Enable disable device of function this may allow an RCD to enable or disable access to the device as a whole or by function to enforce individual user privileges. In some exemplary embodiments the functions listed in Table 3 may be selectively enabled or disabled by an application.

Report clicks used at the end of a successful job the clicks used may be reported back to an RCD including 

Debit mode in these embodiments when an application enables the device it may specify if the current job requires authorization. If so the job will be spooled to memory and click information e.g. as defined in Table 4 will be sent to an RCD. An RCD will then notify the device if the job should be deleted or output sent. At this point the application also has the option of changing job parameters. If the application does not require authorization the job will continue as normal and a click report will be sent at the end of the job.

Print job accounting in these embodiments an RCD may wish to monitor print jobs along with walk up functions. For print job accounting an IDev may monitor all incoming print jobs and send accounting data in the PJL header to an RCD for verification before printing the job. The RCD will evaluate the accounting data or lack thereof and inform the IDev to continue with or cancel the job.

Report on unidentified jobs in these embodiments an RCD may also wish to monitor print jobs that it cannot associate to a specific user such as device reports and incoming fax jobs. The RCD can register to receive click counts for all unidentified jobs so that it may bill them to a general account.

In some embodiments of the present invention a Device Management API allows a network application to remotely setup and manage the imaging device. In exemplary embodiments the Device Management API may provide an RCD with the following controls 

The above groupings are provided only as an exemplary embodiment detailing which settings should be included. In some embodiments actual API s should be grouped by functional areas since there may be overlap between Key Operator settings and web page settings.

In some embodiments an Internal Accounting API may allow a remote computing device application to configure internal accounting and report click counts. In some exemplary embodiments an Internal Accounting API may include 

Some embodiments of the present invention may comprise a Font and Form Management API which allows an RCD application to remotely download and manage fonts and forms in mass storage. In some exemplary embodiments a Font and Form Management API may provide a remote computing device with the following controls 

In some embodiments of the present invention a Firmware Management API may allow a remote computing device or network application to remotely download and manage the imaging device firmware. In some exemplary embodiments a Firmware Management API may provide a remote computing device e.g. a server with the following controls 

In some embodiments of the present invention device function API s allow a remote computing device application to use existing imaging device functionality to provide new custom solutions.

In some embodiments an Image Send API may provide the remote computing device application with the following controls 

In some embodiments a remote computing device can change the default values on the imaging device or the values for the current job. For the current job the remote computing device may also specify if scan parameters may be modified by the user or not. If one remote computing device application e.g. Access Control specifies that a parameter cannot be changed and then a second application e.g. Document Management tries to set the parameter a notification may be sent to the second application and the setting will not be changed.

In some embodiments print jobs may be submitted by remote computing device applications using standard printing channels. In some exemplary embodiments a Print API may provide a remote computing device with the following additional control 

In some embodiments of the present invention a Copy API may provide a remote computing device with the following exemplary controls 

In some embodiments a remote computing device can change the default values on the imaging device or the values for the current job. For the current job the remote computing device may also specify if copy parameters may be modified by the user or not.

In some embodiments of the present invention a Document Filing API may provide a remote computing device with the following exemplary controls 

Allowing external applications to control an imaging device opens up the imaging device to new security vulnerabilities. In embodiments of the present invention that provide some security measures the following exemplary items are security concerns that may be addressed by the remote computing device interface.

Access to remote computing device interfaces may be limited to valid applications. Embodiments provide extensive access and control of the imaging device which poses a significant security risk. The interface of these embodiments may be protected from access by attackers while maintaining ease of setup and use for valid solutions.

Confidential data user credentials and job data may be protected during network transfer. User credentials and job data may be secured during network transfer to ensure that it cannot be stolen an intruder cannot monitor device activity and a man in the middle attack cannot change messages. Imaging devices may support Secure Sockets Layer SSL and other connections to ensure data is safe while being communicated between the imaging device and remote computing device applications.

Administrators may have the ability to lock down imaging device access. For users with strict security policies administrators may have the ability to disable access by remote computing devices or limit access to specific applications. Administrators may have an option to register the limited applications that they wish to access the imaging device interfaces.

Remote computing device applications may ensure the imaging device is not being spoofed. The remote computing device may be able to authenticate an imaging device that it is contract with it to ensure an intruder cannot imitate the imaging device to collect network configuration and password information monitor file folder structures of a document management system or spoof security settings and DSK status of the imaging device.

A remote computing device may ensure that the server is not being spoofed. The imaging device must be able to authenticate all remote computing devices that it is in contact with to ensure that an intruder is not spoofing the remote computing device s IP address. By pretending to be the remote computing device an intruder could steal user credentials redirect scanned documents change device settings or firmware or bring down the access control system either to provide access to unauthorized users or initiate a denial of service attack for valid users .

Access control vend applications may not be compromised when a remote computing device is unavailable. When the remote computing device is unavailable it may not be acceptable to provide open access to the device. If the remote computing device is unavailable at startup or becomes unavailable at anytime e.g. someone disconnects network cable the imaging device may immediately be disabled and an error message displayed.

An administrator may be able to adjust a security level based on company and application requirements. Security requirements can have a large impact on the time it takes to develop a remote computing device application and the resources required to implement the solution. Users using some embodiments may range from a small business with one imaging device no IT staff and a simple scan or print application to a large government office using access control and audit trails to track all device activity. The security measures used to protect imaging device interfaces may be adjustable by the administrator to match the target environment.

The imaging device and remote computing device applications may be able to hand off user credentials. Users may be prompted to login at multiple points throughout a job. For example an access control application or accounting application may control total device access the imaging device may have user authentication enabled for Image Send and a document management application may require user login before showing a folder list. In many environments all of these applications will use a common user database. In some embodiments it is therefore desirable for the applications to pass user credentials to each other so that each one does not have to repeat the authentication process.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . These embodiments comprise an imaging device only which is configured to interact with a remote computing device such as a server through a communications link. The imaging device comprises a user interface which comprises a user input device such as a keypad one or more buttons knobs or switches or a touch screen panel and a display which may comprise user input device in the form of a touch screen panel.

Imaging device will typically be capable of performing one or more imaging functions including but not limited to scanning printing copying facsimile transmission sending and receiving and others.

These embodiments further comprise a communications link which may be a wired connection as shown in comprising a network cable a Universal Serial Bus USB cable a serial cable a parallel cable a powerline communication connection such as a HomePlug connection or other wired connections. Alternatively the communications link may comprise a wireless connection such as an IEEE 802.11 b compliant connection a Bluetooth connection an Infrared Data Association IrDA connection or some other wireless connection.

The operation of some imaging device embodiments may be explained with reference to . In these embodiments menu data is received from a remote computing device not shown in which is connected to the imaging device via the communication link through a wired or wireless connection. This menu data is then displayed on the imaging device user interface display . This display of remote menu data is intended to prompt a user to make an input on the user interface input device .

Imaging devices of these embodiments are further configured to accept input from a user in response to a display of remote menu data and communicate that user input to a remote computing device. In some embodiments this user input data will be processed by a remote computing device. This may comprise running an application on the remote computing device. This processing may also comprise accessing and communicating data that is stored on the remote computing device.

The imaging devices of these embodiments are further configured to receive data resulting from processing the user input data. This may comprise data generated by an application running on the remote computing device in response to the user input. The imaging device may also receive data that was stored on a remote computing device such as a file server in response to processing the user input.

Once the imaging device has received the processed data the imaging device may perform a native function in response to the data or using the data. For example and not be way of limitation the imaging device may print a document that was stored on the remote computing device and modified on the remote computing device according to the user input. As another non limiting example the imaging device may active or enable functions i.e. scanning copying printing fax transmission on the imaging device in response to the receipt of processed data.

Some more specific imaging device embodiments may be explained with reference to . In these embodiments the imaging device is configured to receive menu data formatted in a markup language from a remote computing device. The communication link by which the menu data is communicated may be established and maintained using a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . The markup language may comprise terms from Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Wireless Markup Language WML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML and or other languages.

Once the menu data is received it may be displayed on the imaging device user interface display . As in previously described embodiments the menu data is typically intended to prompt user input on imaging device user interface . Display of the remotely stored menu data may be accomplished with a browser application that is native to the imaging device .

In these embodiments the imaging device is further configured to route user input received though its user interface to a remote computing device. The remote computing device that receives the user input may then run an application or otherwise process the user input and return the results of the processing to the imaging device . Accordingly the imaging device is further configured to receive processed data from a remote computing device. In some embodiments the imaging device may perform one or more functions in response to the receipt of processed data.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be explained with reference to . These embodiment comprise a remote computing device RCD which has a communications link . Communications link may be a wired connection as shown in comprising a network cable a Universal Serial Bus USB cable a serial cable a parallel cable a powerline communication connection such as a HomePlug connection or other wired connections. Alternatively the communications link may comprise a wireless connection such as an IEEE 802.11 b compliant connection a Bluetooth connection an Infrared connection such as those defined in the Infrared Data Association IrDA standard or some other wireless connection. In some embodiments RCD may further comprise a data storage device which is typically a hard drive but may also be an optical drive device such as an array of compact disk drives flash memory or some other storage device.

Embodiments of RCD may be further described with reference to . In these embodiments RCD comprises a processor for processing data and running programs such as operating systems and applications. RCD may further comprise memory which may be in the form of Random Access Memory RAM and Read Only Memory ROM . Generally any applications processed by processor will be loaded into memory . RCD may further comprise a network interface which allows RCD to communicate with other devices such as an imaging device . In some embodiments RCD may also comprise a user interface but this is not required in many embodiments. Storage may be used to store applications and data that may be accessed by an imaging device of embodiments of the present invention. Processor memory storage network interface and optionally user interface are typically linked by a system bus to enable data transfer between each component. Communications link may couple the RCD to other devices via network interface .

In some embodiments described with reference to an RCD may comprise menu data stored on storage device or in memory . This menu data may be configured for display on an imaging device user interface . Menu data may be stored in many formats and configurations. In some embodiments menu data may take the form of terms expressed with a markup language. The markup language may comprise terms from Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Wireless Markup Language WML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML and or other languages. In these embodiments menu data may be sent through a communications link to an imaging device . Accordingly menu data configured for display on an imaging device is stored on RCD .

An RCD of some embodiments will be further configured to receive user input obtained through the user interface of an imaging device and transferred to the RCD over communications links . Once this input data is received at an RCD the input data may be processed . This processing may comprise conversion of the data to a new format execution of commands contained within the data or some other process. Once the input data has been processed the processed output may be sent back to the imaging device where the processed output may be used in an imaging device process or function.

In some embodiments as described with reference to an RCD may send menu data configured for an imaging device display using a markup language. The markup language menu data is then received at the imaging device and displayed to a user. Typically this will prompt the user to enter an input on the imaging device user interface . This user input will then be sent by the imaging device to the RCD . The RCD will then receive the input data prompted by the display of the menu data on the imaging device . Once received the input data may be processed on the RCD . Processing may comprise the selection recordation and or modification of a form document or other data stored on RCD the authorization of a user identified by the user input the translation of a document input by the user generation of a map or other directions related to user input or some other process or function.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . These embodiments comprise at least one RCD and a plurality of imaging devices . In these embodiments at least one of the imaging devices comprises a user interface with a display and user input panel that is integral with the display i.e. touch screen or a separate input unit. RCD is connected to imaging devices by a communications link and network to enable data transmission between RCD and imaging devices 

In these embodiments menu data is stored on RCD and sent to at least one of the imaging devices where the menu data is displayed on a user interface. Any of Imaging devices that receive the menu data are configured to accept and transmit user input to an RCD . Once the user input data is received at the RCD the data may be processed as discussed in previously described embodiments. The result of processing may then be sent back to any combination of the imaging devices 

In these embodiments a single RCD may be used to provide processing power resources and functionality to a plurality of imaging devices without reproducing these resources in each imaging device. In some embodiments data generated by input on one imaging device may be directed to another imaging device for processed data output or final processing.

Some embodiments of the present invention may comprise multi language menu support. Some of these embodiments illustrated in allow for an initial selection or identification of a user preferred language. This selection may comprise user input to select a preferred language. This step may also comprise an automatic identification of a user preferred language which may be achieved by a user identification profile linked to a language a language identification based on the text of a scanned document a code printed on a scanned document or some other identification scheme.

Once the language has been selected or otherwise identified the selection identification data is sent to an RCD where the selection is used to identify language specific menu data that is sent to the imaging device for display . A user may then respond to the selected language menu data with input which may be used to invoke native imaging device functions or may be sent to the RCD for any necessary processing. An RCD may then process the input data and send any process input to a destination such as the imaging device an e mail address a memory location or some other destination.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . In these embodiments an imaging device IDev comprises a user interface which is capable of receiving user input and displaying data to a user. The user interface will typically comprise a display often in the form of a touch panel. The display may be used to display data to a user. This data may comprise menu data to prompt for a user selection or data entry such as a user ID and password form selection or some other input. The imaging device has a communication link which may comprise a typical computer network connection a serial cable or some other wired or wireless communication link as described in other embodiments. The communication link connects the imaging device to a remote computing device RCD such as a server. The RCD may be used to store documents such as forms and other data and make that data accessible from the imaging device . The RCD may also execute applications that interact with or receive input from the imaging device and its user interface .

The terms modify and modification as used in this specification in relation to documents comprise the actions of document generation document merging functions document field assignments search and replace functions and any other actions that cause a humanly perceptible or machine perceptible change to a document.

The term document content or content as used in this specification comprises text graphics images symbols and other data that is intended to be communicated by the document.

The term user input or input as used in this specification comprises input of content and instructions for an imaging device a remote computing device or some other device. Input may be accomplished by keypad entry touch screen entry upload from another device or by other methods.

In some embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in user data is input on the user interface of an imaging device . This user data is then sent over a communication link to an RCD . When the data is received at the RCD the RCD may apply the data to a document. This process may comprise modification of the document such as filling in the fields of a form selecting optional portions of a document addressing a document formatting a document and other modification procedures. The application of data to a document may also comprise generation of a new document with the user data. This may be performed by an application running on the RCD . Once the document has been modified or generated the document may be sent directly from the RCD to a destination such as an e mail address a fax number a network location or some other destination. The modified or newly generated document may also be sent to the imaging device for output in some format such as printed media fax transmission e mail or some other format.

Some embodiments of the present invention are tailored for user characteristic data. These embodiments are illustrated in . In these embodiments a user identifies specific user characteristic data by input on an imaging device user interface . This user characteristic data may comprise a user identification a user location a user occupation a user marital status a user gender a user account identifier or some other user characteristics. This user characteristic data is then sent over a communication link to an RCD . When the data is received at the RCD the RCD may modify a document using the data. This process may comprise modification of an existing document such as filling in the fields of a form selecting optional portions of a document addressing a document formatting a document and other modification procedures. The modification of a document with user characteristic data may also comprise generation of a new document with the user characteristic data. As in other embodiments this may be performed by an application running on the RCD . Once the document has been modified or generated the document may be sent directly from the RCD to a destination such as an e mail address a fax number a network location or some other destination. The modified or newly generated document may also be sent to the imaging device for output in some format such as printed media fax transmission e mail or some other format.

Further embodiments of the present invention illustrated in also comprise a document selection process. In these embodiments a user may input user characteristic data or some other data at an imaging device user interface as in other embodiments. This user input data may be optionally sent to an RCD before further input. In these embodiments a user may further select a document from the imaging device user interface . This document selection and any prior input may then be sent to an RCD for processing. These user input steps may be performed in several input steps through menu selections on the imaging device user interface . Each step may comprise receiving input sending the input to the RCD and refreshing the user interface display for subsequent input steps. Menu data may be supplied from the imaging device or from the RCD . When all required data has been input and sent to the RCD the RCD may modify the selected document using the user input. After document modification or generation the document may be sent to a destination from the RCD or to the imaging device for further output .

Some embodiments of the present invention comprise database access. These embodiments illustrated in allow user input data receipt at an imaging device user interface . Document selection input is also allowed at the user interface . This user input is transmitted to an RCD as in previously described embodiments. However this user input is used to identify stored database data that can be accessed for use in document modification. Once the user input data and the supplemental database data is accessed by the RCD the data can be used to modify or generate a document. The document may then be sent to a destination or to the imaging device .

Further embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . These embodiments comprise a user query process. In these embodiments a user selects a document at an imaging device user interface . This selection is then sent to an RCD . The RCD may then determine what information is required to complete the document and query the user for that specific information through the imaging device user interface . Input is then received on the user interface and sent to the RCD . The selected document is then modified or generated as previously described. Once modified or generated the document may be sent to a destination or to the imaging device for output or further processing.

In still more embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in a document may be displayed on an imaging device user interface . This display may be initiated by user selection some automated process or by some other selective method. In conjunction with the document display a user may be prompted to input data for document modification such as filling out a form. User input is then accepted at the user interface . This input data is then sent to an RCD and the document that was displayed may be modified according to the user input received from the user interface . As in other embodiments the modified document may be sent directly to a destination or to the imaging device for output or further processing .

Some embodiments of the present invention illustrated in utilize a markup language such as an Extensible Markup Language XML and a message protocol such as Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . In some exemplary embodiments a user input is accepted at an imaging device user interface . The input data is formatted at the imaging device into a SOAP message using XML. The XML SOAP message is then sent to an RCD over a communication link . The RCD may process the XML SOAP message entirely or partially and send parts of the message to other units on a network for processing. Processing of the message may require retrieval of data stored on the RCD another network storage device or from some other location. Once all required data has been retrieved the data may be formatted into a document such as a print job or e mail and sent to a destination or imaging device .

Some embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in comprise menu data that is stored on an RCD but displayed on an imaging device user interface . In some of these embodiments menu data is sent from an RCD to an imaging device . This menu data is then displayed on the imaging device user interface . User input in response to the menu display is accepted at the imaging device user interface and sent to the RCD for processing. This input data is then used at the RCD to select or modify a document that is accessible to the RCD . Once the document has been modified selected or generated the finalized document is sent to a destination or to an imaging device for further processing or output.

An RCD comprising remote menu data for display on an imaging device may follow a method illustrated in . In these embodiments the RCD may send menu data to an imaging device for display. The display process will typically prompt for user input and relay that input back to the RCD which will receive the input data. This data will then be used to complete generate format or otherwise modify a document which will then be sent to a destination or to an imaging device for further processing or output.

An imaging device that receives remote menu data may follow a method illustrated in . In these embodiments the imaging device may receive menu data from an RCD . This menu data will be displayed on the imaging device user interface . This is typically done in a manner that prompts a user for input on the user interface . Input is then accepted on the user interface and sent to an RCD for processing. The RCD then modifies a document in response to the user input and sends the modified document to the imaging device . The imaging device receives the modified document and send it to a destination or converts it to hard copy output.

Further embodiments of the present invention comprising remote menu data may be explained with reference to . These embodiments comprise database or network resource access in conjunction with remote menu data. In some of these embodiments menu data stored on an RCD is sent to an imaging device for display. The menu data is displayed on the imaging device where input is prompted. User input is accepted at the imaging device user interface and sent to the RCD for processing. Processing on the RCD may call for supplemental data identified during processing. When this is the case the RCD may access a database or other network resource to obtain the supplemental data. Once all necessary data has been obtained the RCD may modify a document with the data and send that modified document to the imaging device for further processing or output.

An RCD that utilizes remote menu display and data access may follow the steps illustrated in . In these embodiments menu data may be sent to an imaging device for display on a user interface . Data received from the imaging device is received at the RCD . Any supplemental data called for in processing the user input data may be accessed from a database or other network or local resource. The input data and supplemental data may then be used to modify a document which will then be sent to the imaging device for further processing or output.

An imaging device that utilizes remote menu data and remote data access may follow the steps illustrated in . In these embodiments imaging device menu data is received from an RCD and displayed on the imaging device user interface . User input is accepted in response to the display of menu data and sent to the RCD for processing. After remote data access and document modification performed by the RCD a modified document is received at the imaging device from the RCD and the modified document is output by the imaging device .

Some embodiments of the present invention may operate without the aid of a remote computing device that processes data and or instructions. Some embodiments illustrated in comprise an imaging device IDev that does not require a communication link to other devices. The imaging device of these embodiments comprises a user interface with an input device and a display. In these embodiments document content may be received on the IDev user interface. Other information such as menu selections formatting data and other user input may also be received at the user interface. This document content may be used to add to or otherwise modify a document that has been stored on the IDev. Some IDevs of these embodiments comprise data storage capabilities for the storage of forms documents and other data. In some embodiments a document may be created from the document content input by the user and no storage capability is required. Once a document has been modified by the user input content the modified document may be sent to a destination within the imaging device such as another module of the device for further processing or transmission or the document may be sent to a destination outside the imaging device through a communication link.

Further embodiments of the present invention illustrated in are similar to those explained with reference to . These embodiments receive input of document content at an imaging device user interface. This content is used to add to or modify including creation of a document s content. Once the document has been modified the document may be output using one of the imaging device imaging functions such as but not limited to printing on media transmitting as e mail transmitting as a facsimile and other output formats.

Still other embodiments of the present invention provide for document modification including creation on the imaging device. These embodiments may modify a document on the imaging device however documents are stored remotely. In these embodiments a user may select a document using the IDev user interface. The user may also input document content using the IDev user interface. When a document is selected the document is pulled from remote storage such as a network server a remote computing device or some other storage device or location. When the document is retrieved by the IDev the IDev may modify the document using the input document content. Once the document is modified using the new content the modified document may be output at the imaging device or sent to another destination.

Embodiments of the present invention that provide for document modification on the imaging device may use one or more Java based applications that run on the imaging device.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be explained with reference to . In these embodiments a form fill application may run on a server or some other type of computing device that is local to or remote to an imaging device IDev but which is connected to the IDev through a communication link . The form fill application may also be connected to a file system and a database . The IDev may receive user input through an IDev UI and transmit that input to the form fill application . The communication link may facilitate transmission of commands and data between the form fill application and the IDev . This may be performed via a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP or by other data transmission protocols. A form fill application may retrieve file and file folder data from an Operating System OS or Document Management System DMS file system. A form fill application may also retrieve data from a database . A database may comprise information related to a user account such as a database of vacation time for employees.

In some embodiments of the present invention a user may log onto an IDev by identifying a user name password and or other indicia. This user data may be passed to the form fill application and used to relate to other information such as information stored in a database . An application such as a form fill application may push display content to an IDev user interface UI that may invoke other elements of the application. An application may also be invoked by content that is resident on the IDev and linked to the application. In either case an application may be invoked by user input at the IDev UI. The application may then respond by sending further content to the IDev UI to enable further functionality. If a user has not yet signed in a logon page may be sent to the UI in response to an application selection. In some embodiment a series of application selections may be displayed on the IDev UI. If a form fill application is selected the application may send content to the IDev UI that allows a user to select from a set of forms that are available through the form fill application.

Some forms may be stored on a file system . A user may need to navigate through the file system. In this case the file system organization and structure may be sent to the IDev UI and displayed to a user for selection and navigation. For some embodiments details of this process may be explained in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 192 615 incorporated herein by reference.

Once a form has been selected and a user has been identified and in some embodiments authenticated the system may access a database and obtain data related to the user that also corresponds to the selected form. This data may be used to populate fields in the form. In an exemplary embodiment a vacation or time off request form may be accessed. The system may access a database to determine the number of days the user has already used up and the total number of vacation days the user is allotted. The system may then calculate the number of days available to the user and populate the form with this information as well.

Once the form has been populated with field data it may be sent to a direct print utility DPU or some other type of print process for preparation and forwarding to a printer such as IDev .

In some embodiments illustrated in a form may be created by known methods. The form may comprise one or more fields that may be filled with data from another source. When a form is selected at the IDev UI the form fill application may recall data related to fields in the form. This recall may be performed with an HTTP request . The application may then make a copy of the form and append the related field data to the form. In some embodiments an Adobe Postscript file may be used and the field data may be appended to the Postscript form file.

Once the Postscript form file with the appended field data has been created the form fill application may call a direct print utility DPU to print the form as illustrated in . The application may call the DPU and pass the Postscript file to the utility. The utility may then send the file to the IDev for printing.

In some embodiments a form may be automatically filled with field data associated with the currently logged in user. In other embodiments the other users may be selected. Field data may be appended to the Postscript file using XML tags. In these embodiments the field data will appear in the appropriate place in the printed form.

In other embodiments a form may be selected by a user and the system may respond by prompting the user to input data corresponding to the fields in the form. User input may be appended to the form in a manner similar to that explained above and the form may be printed using a DPU or by other methods. When user input is received the input may be validated.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . In these embodiments an IDev UI may display form selection content allowing a user to select one or more forms. This content may reside on the IDev or may be sent to the IDev from a remote source. When a form is selected at the IDev UI the selection is transmitted to a form fill application comprising one or more forms A C with field variables. Each form may be associated with an input field definition file IFDF A C that defines the form fields within the form. An IFDF A C may also comprise display parameters and UI options for prompting a user for field input. An IFDF A C may also comprise instructions for obtaining field data from other sources such as a database memory or another source. The IFDF A C may be a markup language file such as an XML file.

IFDF data may be sent to the IDev UI for incorporation into a user input prompt display for prompting a user to input field data. IFDF data may be sent to the IDev using a template system as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 233 270 which is incorporated herein by reference.

A user may respond to the input prompt by selecting from an enumerated list typing on a soft keyboard or hard keyboard or by other known methods. Once input has been entered the entries may be sent to post processing modules A C that correspond to the specific forms selected. A post processing module A C may process the user input data and generate appropriate tags and tag values. In some embodiments this data may be formatted into markup language tags. These formatted tags may then be appended to a form file that corresponds to the form selected by the user to create a filled in form A C with fields that are populated with user input.

Once a filled in form A C has been created the form A C may be sent to a DPU for printing or printed in some other manner. The result of the printing process will be a hard copy filled in form comprising fields that are populated with the user input received at the IDev UI or data received by other means.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . In these embodiments a server based form fill application which may be remote to the IDev is invoked by user input at the IDev UI or by some other method. This input may be formatted as an HTTP request from a page on the IDev UI display. When the form fill application is invoked the application may request a set of form files from an OS file system or some other document management or file system. In some embodiments these form files may be in an Adobe Postscript format.

The form fill application may read form file information and format a response in a markup language format e.g. XHTML which may comprise a list of available form files. This response may then be sent to the IDev UI as an HTTP response or via another mechanism. This response when received at the IDev UI may then be displayed as a user prompt which prompts a user to select a form from among the displayed list. When a user makes a form selection that selection may be formatted as an HTTP request designating the selected form. The form fill application may then retrieve a corresponding field definition file . The application may then dynamically create a markup language page e.g. XHTML comprising form field information. This form field page may then be sent to the IDev UI as an HTTP Response . When received at the IDev UI the form field page may be displayed as a user field data entry prompt .

A user may respond to the field data entry prompt by entering field data which may be received at the IDev UI and formatted into an HTTP Request comprising field data entries. The form fill application may then make a copy of the selected form and append the field data thereby creating a completed form comprising the field data .

The application may then call a direct print utility DPU application to print the completed form. In some embodiments the form will be a Postscript file with appended XHTML field data however other file formats and markup languages may be used in various embodiments. The DPU may send the print job to a printing device for printing. In some embodiments the printing device may be part of the IDev. In other embodiment the printing device may be a separate device from the IDev on which the input was received. After printing a hard copy form comprising printed field data received from the user will be the result.

The terms and expressions which have been employed in the foregoing specification are used therein as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding equivalence of the features shown and described or portions thereof it being recognized that the scope of the invention is defined and limited only by the claims which follow.

