---

title: Method for automated management of a telecommunication service
abstract: Method for automatically managing a telecommunication service for telecommunication service user includes detecting a telecommunication device associated with the telecommunication service user on a network, determining an activation state of the telecommunication service based on data regarding the detected telecommunication device, determining an account/device state based on data regarding the detected telecommunication device and executing a management process between the telecommunication device and the telecommunication service to alter either the device state or the user account status based on the data regarding the detected device. The executing step includes automatically invoking an action that minimizes the necessary user interaction to initialize, update or access the service. Such service can be VoIP, instant messaging, and combination of these services or others.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08073123&OS=08073123&RS=08073123
owner: Vonage Network LLC
number: 08073123
owner_city: Holmdel
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061227
---
The invention is related to the field of telecommunication devices and services and more specifically the invention is directed to a method for automatically managing a telecommunication service based upon the state of a telecommunication device connected thereto.

Voice over IP VoIP is a recent technological development in the field of telecommunications that is utilized to transmit voice conversations over a data network using the Internet Protocol IP . Entities either businesses or individuals can use VoIP by purchasing and installing the necessary equipment a Customer Premise Equipment CPE device to access a VoIP service provider and activating this telecommunication service. When such entities begin the activation process they complete a manually intensive sign up step to provide subscriber and payment information to the VoIP service provider. This information also includes the service plan s the entity desires to purchase and the option to select a phone number from an existing inventory or port their existing phone number to the VoIP service. Since the CPE devices are centrally managed it is necessary to know with which specific CPE device the subscriber is activating service. Typically this is accomplished by the subscriber conducting another manually intensive task of entering a CPE device identifier during a web based transaction in a self serve manner or by communicating the CPE device identifier to a service agent over the phone. To maintain uniqueness this identifier is typically a long string of digits such as a serial number or a 12 character MAC address comprising alphanumeric characters 0 9 and A F or any other unique identifier of the CPE device. The entering of these characters can be error prone due to typographical transcription transposition errors and the like. Such errors cause delays in completing the activation process frustration for a new subscriber and increased activity for VoIP service provider agents who could otherwise be assisting other subscribers.

Additionally after the VoIP service has been activated there are equipment and account status checks that need to be performed to provide the subscriber with the best possible service. These status checks need to be performed for example either on a periodic basis or at every instance of subscriber usage. If it were incumbent upon the subscriber to have to provide either additional information or perform equipment i.e. software upgrades during each instance of a status check such actions would detract from the overall subscriber experience. For example not all subscribers may be well versed in computer Internet or VoIP technology to be able to perform the upgrades and are solely interested in using the telephone as it was intended without further technology creep to enjoy the new service.

Therefore there is a need in the art for a method for automatically managing a telecommunications service so as to reduce the need for customer interaction and service provider resources during use of such a service.

The present invention generally relates to a method for automatically managing a telecommunication service for telecommunication service user. The method includes the steps of detecting a telecommunication device associated with the telecommunication service user on a network determining an activation state of the telecommunication service based on data regarding the detected telecommunication device determining an account device state based on data regarding the detected telecommunication device and executing a management process between the telecommunication device and the telecommunication service to alter the telecommunication device state and or the telecommunication service user account status based on the data regarding the detected telecommunication device. The executing step includes automatically invoking an action such as launching a web browser on a telecommunication service user s computer to which the telecommunication device is connected initiating a communication to an Interactive Voice Response IVR system initiating a communication to a live agent of the telecommunication service provider initiating a instant message IM interactive chat session with a live agent or a pre packaged response system associated with the telecommunication service provider running a local program to interact with the telecommunication service provider and or invoking one or more additional programs to initiate password credential change update functions.

The step of determining an activation state includes scanning a memory of the telecommunication device. If valid configuration information is present in the memory of the telecommunication device the activation state of the telecommunication service is activated . If no valid configuration information is present in the memory the activation state of the telecommunication service is further evaluated to determine if the activation was previously performed or never previously activated. Alternately this step includes reviewing one or more telecommunication device identifiers and comparing same to telecommunication service records. The data collected includes parameters such as a unique CPE device identification number a subscriber account number a subscriber user name and an updated or newly discovered physical location of the CPE device for confirmation. Additionally it is contemplated that the telecommunication service is a VoIP service an IM service an electronic mail service or a combination of VoIP electronic mail and IM services. Further the method may be embedded within a larger process that provides one or more additional telecommunication services or may be a stand alone process.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

To achieve the desired objectives the subject invention provides for a method of automatically managing a telecommunication service based upon the analysis and determination of various states of the telecommunication service and a telecommunication device associated therewith. Generally when a telecommunication service subscriber attempts to establish a connection to the telecommunications service provider a series of system checks are automatically performed and a service management process is automatically started. This service management process performs the necessary operations to reduce administrative steps that the subscriber must perform to initially establish an account with the telecommunication service and subsequently access same. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the telecommunication service is VoIP that is provided over an IP based network such as but not limited to the Internet and the CPE device is an IP phone but other similar IPv4 and IPv6 based subscriber end devices are contemplated and considered within the scope of the invention .

The service management process associated with the subject invention is generally seen in which depicts a series of method steps . The method starts at step and proceeds to step where a telecommunication device detection operation is executed. In this step a CPE device that has been installed or otherwise connected to a subscriber s computer or other similar interface to an IP based network e.g. the Internet is recognized. This detection operation is accomplished automatically by for example the subscriber s computer as it performs operations including but not limited to routine monitoring of the operating environment checking for software updates and the like. Alternately device detection operation is accomplished when the CPE device is connected to the subscriber s computer. One skilled in the art is aware of the exemplary programs applications code and the like to perform this detection operation as well as alternate means for executing the detection operation. In one embodiment of the invention the CPE device is inserted into a USB port of the subscriber s computer which then recognizes the CPE device as a new piece of hardware connected thereto.

At step a determination of the state of the telecommunication service is performed in order to assess what additional steps are necessary to connect the subscriber to the telecommunication service. This determination is accomplished by scanning and analyzing hardware and software on the subscriber s computer and or the CPE device i.e. network connectivity telecommunication service provider and subscriber profiles default settings memory contents and the like . This determination indicates what state the telecommunication service associated with the CPE device is in. Details of a first embodiment of this determining the step based upon analysis of a non volatile memory of the CPE device is explained in greater detail below. Alternately this determining step is performed by analyzing the CPE device via a CPE device identifier with the telecommunication service provisioning infrastructure to determine the state of the service. Such a second embodiment of this determining step includes reviewing one or more of the CPE device serial number MAC address public key or other generic unique device identifier.

At step a determination of the state of the CPE device and the subscriber s account associated therewith is performed in order to manage the subscriber s account with the telecommunication service. This determination is accomplished by a plurality of possible means for analyzing and or exchanging information. In one embodiment of the invention activity of a CPE device configuration file explained in greater detail below is monitored. In a second embodiment of the invention transactions occurring across the network upon which the VoIP service is accessing are monitored so that the telecommunication device is effectively asking what state the service is in. Non limiting examples of such transactions include remote procedure calls web based application programming interfaces API s Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP over XML information and forwarding a subset of subscriber data from the CPE to the telecommunication service.

If the CPE device and or subscriber account are found to be in a normal activated subscribed state the subscriber is able to access the telecommunication service. If the CPE device and or subscriber account are found to be in an abnormal state defined as any state that does not allow normal and typical access to the telecommunication service then step determines which specific state exists to automatically customize an appropriate response or necessary interaction with the subscriber. The following terms define exemplary conditions or states of either the CPE device or subscriber account that results in the abnormal state in one embodiment of the invention 

Unsubscribed the CPE device is not associated with an account and unable to be used with the telecommunication service

Location Change assisted the telecommunication service analysis indicates that the CPE device s physical location has changed

Location Change autonomous the CPE device has determined that its physical location has changed and the subscriber may need to specify an updated location

Service in grace status current subscriber account status indicates that payment is past due within a grace period where the telecommunication service s continue to work but where intervention by the subscriber is required to take the account out of arrears i.e. making a payment updating payment information for automated billing which may have become invalid and the like 

Service in suspend status similar to grace status but the grace period has expired and account is in an inactive state where the telecommunication service s are suspended or greatly restricted until payment is made current.

Other conditions which may require subscriber interaction are known to those skilled in the art and include but are not limited to for example a business system which requires updating confirming of billing information notification of suspected fraud usage and the like. Such an abnormal state will require further action by the subscriber as explained in detail below. Such action will be of a nature as to provide a straightforward solution to the specific abnormal state rather than the subscriber having to notice the abnormal state have to undertake a lengthy troubleshooting process to determine the reason for the abnormal state or otherwise wait for technical assistance provided by an agent of the telecommunication service provider.

At step an automated management process is executed to change the state of either the telecommunication service or the subscriber s account based upon the information collected and determined states from steps and . In one embodiment of the invention examples of the information collected is selected from the group consisting of the unique CPE device identification number i.e. serial number or MAC address subscriber account number subscriber user name and updated newly discovered physical location of the CPE device for confirmation. The automated management process invokes one of a plurality of actions and provides specific and direct instructions or queries if necessary to resolve problems resulting in the abnormal state conditions described. Such actions include but are not limited to launching a web browser on the subscriber s computer to which the CPE device is connected initiating a communication to an Interactive Voice Response IVR service initiating a communication to a live agent of the telecommunication service provider initiating an instant message interactive chat session with a live agent or pre packaged response system associated with the telecommunication service provider running a local program to interact with back end systems at the telecommunication service provider and invoking one or more additional programs to initiate password credential change update functions. For example in one embodiment of the invention a determination is made that the CPE device has never been activated because there is no record of activation from a configuration server i.e. no configuration file found . Accordingly the method launches a default web browser on the subscriber s computer by opening a URL to a custom retailer s subscriber page. The URL opened will pass along the CPE device identification number rather than the subscriber manually supplying the information. Such action will ultimately result in the state of the service and the associated device changing from inactivated to activated so as to allow the subscriber access to the service with little or no subscriber interaction required.

After step the method optionally proceeds to step . Step is optional because it introduces a subscriber driven task that may not always be necessary to practice the automatic management process of the subject invention. That is there are instances of the automatic management process where no response or interaction from the subscriber is required. For example one such transparent instance is the automatic updating of telecommunications service software at the CPE or subscriber s computer. Such activity requires no interaction with the subscriber and occurs for example when the subscriber first accesses the VoIP service to make a new telephone call to another party.

At step if necessary the method receives instructions from the subscriber to complete the state change. Continuing with the example above the subscriber completes the remaining portion of the subscription process activation or other administrative inquiry as necessary with the CPE device in question being implicitly identified. The page being opened can be customized by Device type since this information is now known from the device identifier data collected earlier in the process . Depending on the design process this landing page might be customized by the retailer. Alternately the page may be part of a default configuration returned based upon records of what list of devices identified by the unique Device Identifier were shipped to which distribution channels. The URL opened will pass along the Device Identifier to be used as an alternative to the customer manually supplying the information. Other information can also be supplied such as name address unique CPE device identification number i.e. serial number MAC address device specific public key or certificate DNS name subscriber account number subscriber user name service associated account identifiers and the like if available to pre populate the page to further facilitate the subscriber during the automated management process. The method ends at step .

If there is no valid complete and useable configuration information present according to the first query step then there is a null configuration condition. As such the method proceeds to step where a second query is executed to determine if the memory in which the configuration information should exist was reformatted erased or corrupted. If the memory was reformatted it is assumed that the CPE device and associated service account may have been previously activated and replacement configuration information needs to be installed in the CPE device. Accordingly the method proceeds to step where a replacement configuration information is installed in the CPE device. The method then proceeds to step where an optional configuration information updating reconfiguring occurs. This step is optional because depending on replacement configuration information or other system parameters it may not be necessary to update reconfigure the replacement configuration information. Should it be necessary the updating reconfiguring occurs automatically with no subscriber input or action. After the optional configuration updating the method ends at step .

If the memory was not reformatted it is assumed that the CPE device and associated telecommunication service were never previously activated. When such an unactivated condition is determined the method proceeds to step where a new configuration information is installed in the CPE device. Adding the configuration information allows the new CPE device the necessary access to the telecommunication service provider to further determine CPE device and subscriber account status as described above with respect to step of method . After new configuration information is installed on the new CPE device the method ends at step .

The software routine is executed after the CPE device is connected to the subscriber s computer e.g. controller . The software routine when executed by the CPU transforms the general purpose computer into a specific purpose computer controller that controls the automated management process. As such the process rapidly and easily identifies the telecommunication service and CPE device status and executes a management function as required. Although the process of the present invention is discussed as being implemented as a software routine some of the method steps that are disclosed therein may be performed in hardware as well as by the software controller. As such the invention may be implemented in software as executed upon a computer system in hardware as an application specific integrated circuit or other type of hardware implementation or a combination of software and hardware.

Additionally the software routine can be used to automatically manage one or more additional services that the telecommunications service provider offers. For example the software routine and method in general is used primarily to automatically manage telecommunication services such as a VoIP service. However the software routine and and method in general can also be used to automatically manage an instant messaging IM service an email service or a combination of these services or other services known to those skilled in the art of telecommunications. Further the software routine can act as a stand alone program or can be embedded with one or more other routines or programs that provide one or more additional telecommunication services. The software routine of the present invention is capable of being executed on computer operating systems including but not limited to Microsoft Windows 98 Microsoft Windows XP Apple OS X and Linux. Similarly the software routine of the present invention is capable of being performed using CPU architectures including but not limited to Apple Power PC AMD Intel x86 Sun SPARC and Intel ARM.

One example of a CPE device that can exploit the advantages of the subject invention is the V Phone that is manufactured and sold by Vonage of Holmdel N.J. In one example the method of automatic management process is provided in the V Phone as the aforementioned software routine written on a flash memory device containing all of the instructions and steps necessary to accomplish for example an account activation process identification of the V Phone and or determine the status of the V Phone or account status associated therewith and any other management tasks contemplated by the invention. Specifically the V Phone is provided as a USB compliant device that when inserted into the USB port of a computer connected to the Internet automatically launches the program contained therein. The method then executes a series of steps to identify the V Phone and its state connect to the Vonage network provides the necessary updates to the device service etc without relying on subscriber input for intensive tasks such as device identification mac addressing and the like.

While foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof.

