---

title: Transistors having buried p-type layers coupled to the gate
abstract: A unit cell of a metal-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MESFET) is provided. The MESFET has a source, a drain and a gate. The gate is between the source and the drain and on an n-type conductivity channel layer. A p-type conductivity region is provided beneath the gate between the source and the drain. The p-type conductivity region is spaced apart from the n-type conductivity channel layer and electrically coupled to the gate. Related methods are also provided herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07646043&OS=07646043&RS=07646043
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07646043
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060928
---
The present invention was made at least in part with support from the Department of the Navy contract number N00014 02 C 0250. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to microelectronic devices and more particularly to transistors for example metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs .

Electrical circuits requiring high power handling capability 20 watts while operating at high frequencies such as radio frequencies 500 MHz S band 3 GHz and X band 10 GHz have become commonplace. Because of the increase in high power high frequency circuits there has been a corresponding increase in demand for transistors that are capable of reliably operating at radio frequencies and above while still being capable of handling higher power loads. Metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs have been developed for high frequency applications. The MESFET construction may be preferable for high frequency applications because only majority carriers carry current. The MESFET design may be preferred over other designs because the reduced gate capacitance may permit faster switching times of the gate input. Therefore although generally all field effect transistors utilize only majority carriers to carry current the Schottky gate structure of the MESFET may make the MESFET more desirable for high frequency applications.

Silicon carbide SiC has been known for many years to have excellent physical and electronic properties which should theoretically allow production of electronic devices that can operate at higher temperatures higher power and higher frequency than devices produced from silicon Si or GaAs. The high electric breakdown field of about 4 10V cm high saturated electron drift velocity of about 2.0 10cm sec and high thermal conductivity of about 4.9 W cm K indicate that SiC would be suitable for high frequency high power applications.

SiC MESFETs fabricated on high resistivity substrates have found widespread use for high power RF amplifiers. Devices having highly doped p type layers under the source region of the FET have been provided and have been successful in providing high breakdown voltages for power amplifiers while reducing drifts in device characteristics arising from trapping in semi insulating substrates. These devices are discussed for example in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 956 239 to Sriram.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a unit cell of a metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET . The MESFET has a source a drain and a gate. The gate is between the source and the drain and on an n type conductivity channel layer. A p type conductivity region is provided beneath the gate between the source and the drain. The p type conductivity region is spaced apart from the n type conductivity channel layer and electrically coupled to the gate.

In some embodiments of the present invention the p type conductivity region electrically coupled to the gate may provide a second gate and the thickness of the n type conductivity channel layer may be from about 0.1 to about 0.5 m. The MESFET may function as switch and the larger thickness of the n type conductivity channel layer may reduce an on resistance of the switch.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the n type conductivity channel layer and the substrate may define a mesa having sidewalls that define a periphery of the MESFET. Portions of the p type conductivity region and the gate may extend past the mesa. The p type conductivity region and the gate may be electrically coupled at the portions of the p type conductivity region and the gate that extend past the mesa. A metal contact may be provided on the portions of the p type conductivity region and the gate that extend past the mesa such that the metal contact electrically couples the p type conductivity region and the gate. The metal contact may include for example titanium and or gold.

In some embodiments of the present invention the source may have a first sidewall and a second sidewall. The first sidewall of the source may be remote from the gate and the second sidewall of the source may be adjacent the gate. Similarly the drain may have a first sidewall and a second sidewall. The first sidewall of the drain may be adjacent the gate and the second sidewall of the drain may be remote from the gate. The p type conductivity region may extend from the second sidewall of the source to the first sidewall of the drain without extending past the second sidewall of the source and the first sidewall of the drain.

In some embodiments of the present invention the source may have a first sidewall and a second sidewall. The first sidewall of the source may be remote from the gate and the second sidewall of the source may be adjacent the gate. Similarly the drain may have a first sidewall and a second sidewall. The first sidewall of the drain may be adjacent the gate and the second sidewall of the drain may be remote from the gate. The p type conductivity region may extend from the second sidewall of the source to the first sidewall of the drain.

In further embodiments of the present invention a silicon carbide SiC substrate may be provided. The p type conductivity region may be disposed on the SiC substrate. The n type conductivity channel layer may be n type conductivity SiC and the p type conductivity region may be p type conductivity SiC.

In still further embodiments of the present invention a silicon carbide SiC substrate may be provided and at least a portion of the p type conductivity region may be disposed in the SiC substrate. The p type conductivity region may extend about 0.5 m into the SiC substrate. The p type conductivity region may have a carrier concentration of from about 1.0 10cmto about 1.0 10cm.

In some embodiments of the present invention a buffer layer may be provided on the SiC substrate and the p type conductivity region may be formed in the buffer layer. The buffer layer may have a thickness of about 2.0 m. The p type conductivity region may extend about 0.5 m into the buffer layer.

In further embodiments of the present invention an n type conductivity gallium arsenide GaAs substrate may be provided. The p type conductivity region may be provided on the GaAs substrate. The n type conductivity channel layer may include n type conductivity GaAs and the p type conductivity region may include p type conductivity GaAs. In certain embodiments of the present invention the gate may extend into the n type conductivity channel layer.

Still further embodiments of the present invention provide a unit cell of a MESFET. A MESFET is provided having a source a drain and a gate. The gate is between the source and the drain. A p type conductivity region is provided beneath the gate between the source and the drain. The p type conductivity region is electrically coupled to the gate.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a MESFET configured to function as a switch. The MESFET includes a source a drain and a gate. The gate is between the source and the drain on an n type conductivity channel layer having a thickness of from about 0.1 to about 0.5 m. A p type conductivity region is provided beneath the gate between the source and the drain. The p type conductivity region provides a second gate.

While the present invention is described above primarily with reference to MESFETs other types of transistors as well as methods of fabricating transistors and in particular MESFETs are also provided.

The invention is described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on another element or layer it can be directly on the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first and second are used herein to describe various regions layers and or sections these regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second region layer or section and similarly a second region layer or section may be termed a first region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompasses both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a binary change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Optional elements of the cross sections are illustrated by dotted lines in the figures.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present specification and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As used herein the term ohmic contact refers to contacts where an impedance associated therewith is substantially given by the relationship of Impedance V I where V is a voltage across the contact and I is the current at substantially all expected operating frequencies i.e. the impedance associated with the ohmic contact is substantially the same at all operating frequencies and currents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail below with reference to that illustrate various embodiments of the present invention and various processes of fabricating embodiments of the present invention. In particular transistors having buried p type layers beneath the source region of transistors for power amplifiers have obtained high breakdown voltages and exhibited reduced drifts in device characteristics due to trapping in semi insulting substrates. Transistors having buried p type layers beneath the source region are discussed in detail in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 956 239 to Sriram entitled Transistors Having Buried P Type Layers Beneath the Source Region the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety.

As discussed herein use of buried p type layers may also be useful in transistors for radio frequency RF switch applications however the buried p type layer cannot be connected to the source as discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 956 239 since the forward bias conduction between the p layer and the drain may cause a loss of input output isolation when the RF switch is in the OFF state. Thus according to some embodiments of the present invention transistors for example metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs are provided having p type conductivity regions beneath the gate of the MESFET between the source and the drain. The p type conductivity region is electrically coupled to the gate as will be discussed further herein. The presence of this p type conductivity region for example p type conductivity silicon carbide SiC may allow the p type conductivity region to provide a second gate the presence of which may allow the use of a thicker channel layer. The thicker channel layer may reduce the on resistance of the RF switch. Furthermore the reduced on resistance may be obtained according to some embodiments of the present invention without significantly increasing the input output capacitance. Therefore according to some embodiments of the present invention the on resistance off capacitance product may be reduced which is beneficial for RF switches.

Referring to transistors for example metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs according to some embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. As seen in a substrate is provided. The substrate may be a single crystal bulk silicon carbide SiC substrate of either p type or n type conductivity or semi insulating. The substrate of either p type or n type may be very lightly doped. The substrate may be formed of silicon carbide selected from the group of 6H 4H 15R or 3C silicon carbide. Although the present invention is described herein with reference to a SiC substrate the present invention should not be limited to SiC. For example in some embodiments the substrate may also include for example gallium arsenide GaAs .

An optional buffer layer of for example p type silicon carbide may be provided on the substrate . The buffer layer may include p type conductivity silicon carbide of 6H 4H 15R or 3C polytype. The buffer layer may for example have a carrier concentration of from about 0.5 10cmto about 3.0 10cm. Suitable dopants include aluminum boron and or gallium. The buffer layer may have a thickness of about 2.0 m. Although the buffer layer is described above as p type silicon carbide the invention should not be limited to this configuration. Alternatively the buffer layer may be undoped silicon carbide i.e. not intentionally doped or very low doped n type conductivity silicon carbide. If a very low doped n type silicon carbide is utilized for the buffer layer the carrier concentration of the buffer layer is preferably less than about 5.0 10cm.

As further illustrated in a p region is provided beneath a gate of the device. As used herein p or n refer to regions that are defined by higher carrier concentrations than are present in adjacent or other regions of the same or another layer or substrate. In some embodiments of the present invention the p region may extend from a sidewall of a source region or source contact to a sidewall of a drain region and or drain contact without extending to beneath the source or drain regions or contacts .

The p region is a region of p type conductivity for example p type conductivity silicon carbide. For the p region carrier concentrations of from about 1.0 10cmto about 1.0 10cmmay be suitable but carrier concentrations as high as possible are preferred. The carrier concentration may not be constant throughout the p region and may be as high as possible at the surface of the p region to facilitate the formation of ohmic contacts thereon. In some embodiments of the present invention the p region may be provided in the buffer layer as illustrated in . However in some embodiments of the present invention the p region may be provided in the substrate . The p region may for example extend about 0.5 m into the buffer layer or the substrate .

The p region is electrically coupled to the gate as will be discussed further below. The presence of the p region electrically coupled to and beneath the gate may allow the p type conductivity region to provide a second gate the presence of which may allow the use of a thicker channel layer discussed below . The thicker channel layer may reduce the on resistance of the RF switch. Furthermore the reduced on resistance may be obtained according to some embodiments of the present invention without significantly increasing the input output capacitance of the device. Therefore according to some embodiments of the present invention the on resistance off capacitance product may be reduced which is beneficial for RF switches.

The buffer layer may be disposed between the substrate and a second buffer layer . The second buffer layer may be for example p type silicon carbide having a carrier concentration of from about 1.0 10cmto about 5.0 10cm but typically about 2.0 10cm. The p type silicon carbide buffer layer may also have a thickness of from about 0.5 m to about 1.0 m. Although the second buffer layer is described above as being of p type conductivity silicon carbide it will be understood that the present invention is not limited to this configuration. Alternatively for example the second buffer layer may be of n type conductivity for example very lightly doped n type conductivity SiC or undoped SiC as discussed above with respect to buffer layer . In some embodiments of the present invention the second buffer layer may be provided directly on the substrate .

An n type conductivity channel layer is provided on the second buffer layer as illustrated in . The n type conductivity channel layer may be formed of n type conductivity silicon carbide of 6H 4H 15R or 3C polytype. The n type conductivity channel layer may include one or more layers of for example n type conductivity silicon carbide having different carrier concentrations. The n type conductivity channel layer may have a thickness of from about 0.1 to about 0.5 m. As discussed above the n type conductivity channel layer may be made thicker due to the presence of the p region which can be used as a second gate. The thicker channel layer may reduce the on resistance of the RF switch according to some embodiments of the present invention.

As illustrated in the substrate the buffer layer the p region the second buffer layer and the n type conductivity channel layer may be etched to form an isolation mesa. The mesa has sidewalls defined by the substrate the buffer layer the p region the second buffer layer and the n type conductivity channel layer that define the periphery of the transistor.

As discussed above according to some embodiments of the present invention the p region is electrically coupled to the gate . Thus according to some embodiments of the present invention portions of the p region and the gate contact may extend beyond the mesa and a metal contact may be provided on the exposed portions of the p region and the gate that extend beyond the mesa so as to electrically couple the p region to the gate as illustrated in as will be discussed below with respect to .

As further illustrated in n regions and are provided in the source and drain regions of the device respectively. Regions and are typically of n type conductivity silicon carbide and have carrier concentrations that are greater than the carrier concentration of the n type conductivity channel layer . For the n regions and carrier concentrations of about 1 10cmmay be suitable but carrier concentrations as high as possible are preferred.

Ohmic contacts and are provided on the implanted regions and respectively and are spaced apart so as to provide the source contact and the drain contact . The ohmic contacts and are preferably formed of nickel or other suitable metals. Although not illustrated in the cross section of the metal contact discussed above may be provided on the exposed portions of the gate and the p region that extend beyond the mesa.

As illustrated in the gate contact may be provided in the recess between the source region and the drain region . It will be understood that although the gate contact is illustrated in as being provided in a single recess embodiments of the present invention are not limited to this configuration. For example the gate contact may be disposed on the n type conductivity channel layer and may not be provided in a recess or may be provided in a double recess structure without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The gate contact may be formed of chromium platinum platinum silicide nickel and or TiWN however other metals such as gold known to one skilled in the art to achieve the Schottky effect may be used. The Schottky gate contact typically has a three layer structure. Such a structure may have advantages because of the high adhesion of chromium Cr . For example the gate contact can optionally include a first gate layer of chromium Cr contacting the n type conductivity channel layer . The gate contact may further include an overlayer not shown of platinum Pt and gold or other highly conductive metal. Alternatively the gate contact may include a first layer of nickel in the recess on the n type conductivity channel layer . The gate contact may further include an overlayer not shown on the first layer of nickel that includes a layer of gold.

As further illustrated in metal overlayers and may be provided on the source contact and the drain contact respectively. The overlayers and may be for example gold silver aluminum platinum and or copper. Other suitable highly conductive metals may also be used for the overlayer.

Referring now to the cross sections of processing steps in the fabrication of FETs according to some embodiments of the present invention will be discussed. As illustrated in an optional buffer layer may be grown or deposited on a substrate . The substrate may be a semi insulating SiC substrate a p type substrate or an n type substrate. The substrate may be very lightly doped. The buffer layer may be of p type conductivity silicon carbide having a carrier concentration of about 3.0 10cmor less but typically 1.0 10cmor less. Alternatively the buffer layer may be n type silicon carbide or undoped silicon carbide.

As further illustrated in a mask may be formed for implanting the p region The p region is typically formed by ion implantation of for example aluminum boron and or gallium followed by a high temperature anneal. Suitable anneal temperatures may be from about 1300 to about 1600 C. typically about 1500 C. The ion implantation may be performed on the regions that are not covered by the mask to form p region as illustrated in . Thus the ions are implanted in portions of the buffer layer if present or the substrate to provide a highly doped region of p type conductivity for example p type conductivity silicon carbide. Once implanted the dopants are annealed to activate the implant. The highly doped region of p type conductivity may extend about 0.5 m into the buffer layer or the substrate .

As illustrated in a second buffer layer and an n type conductivity channel layer are grown or deposited on the buffer layer . It will be understood that if the buffer layer is not included the second buffer layer and the n type conductivity channel layer may be grown or deposited on the substrate . The second buffer layer is formed on the buffer layer and the n type conductivity channel layer is formed on the second buffer layer as illustrated in . The channel layer may have a thickness of from about 0.1 to about 0.5 m.

As illustrated in a mask may be formed for implanting n regions and . Regions and are typically formed by ion implantation of for example nitrogen N or phosphorus P followed by a high temperature anneal. Suitable anneal temperatures may be from about 1100 to about 1600 C. The ion implantation may be performed on the regions which are not covered by the mask to form n regions and as illustrated in . Thus the ions are implanted in portions of the n type conductivity channel layer to provide highly doped regions of n type conductivity for example n type conductivity SiC having higher carrier concentrations than the n type conductivity channel layer . Once implanted the dopants are annealed to activate the implant.

As seen in the substrate the buffer layer the p region the second buffer layer and the n type conductivity channel layer may be etched to form an isolation mesa. The mesa has sidewalls defined by the substrate the buffer layer the p region the second buffer layer and the n type conductivity channel layer that define the periphery of the transistor. The mesa may be formed to extend into the substrate of the device as shown in . The mesa may be formed by reactive ion etching the above described device however other methods known to one skilled in the art may be used to form the mesa.

As discussed above according to some embodiments of the present invention the p region is electrically coupled to the gate . Thus according to some embodiments of the present invention portions of the p region and the gate contact may extend beyond the mesa and a metal contact may be provided on the exposed portions of the p region to and the gate that extend beyond the mesa so as to electrically couple the p region to the gate as illustrated in . illustrates a top view of devices according to some embodiments of the present invention. The metal contact may include for example nickel or other suitable metals. It will be understood that the p region and the gate may be connected using other methods known to those having skill in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Referring now to the gate contact and the overlayers and may be formed. For example a window may be opened in the insulator and a layer of chromium may be deposited in the recess . Typically the chromium layer is formed by evaporative deposition. The gate structure may then be completed by deposition of platinum and gold. As will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art the overlayers and may be formed either before or after formation of the gate structure. Accordingly the overlayers and may be formed prior to the formation of a gate contact or after the formation of a gate contact.

Furthermore although not illustrated in Figures the metal contact that electrically couples the p region and the gate may be formed at the same time as the other contacts discussed above.

As is briefly described above transistors according to embodiments of the present invention include a p type conductivity region beneath the gate between the source and the drain. The presence of this p type conductivity region may provide for example a second gate p type conductivity region which may allow the thickness of the channel layer to be increased. The thicker channel layer may reduce the on resistance of the RF switch. Furthermore the reduced on resistance may be obtained according to some embodiments of the present invention without significantly increasing the input output capacitance. Therefore according to some embodiments of the present invention the on resistance off capacitance product may be reduced which is beneficial for RF switches.

Although the present invention is described above with reference to SiC MESFETs the present invention is not limited to SiC MESFETs. For example MESFETs according to embodiments of the present invention may be for example gallium arsenide GaAs MESFETs. In particular if the present invention were described with respect to GaAs MESFETs the p type conductivity regions might be p type conductivity GaAs regions the n type conductivity channel layers might be n type conductivity GaAs layers and the like.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

