---

title: MEMS inertial shock bandpass filter
abstract: An inertial shock bandpass filter for detecting a shock event between first and second acceleration levels. The inertial shock bandpass filter includes a primary inertial element and at least one secondary inertial element supported by respective spring arrangements. The inertial elements include complementary engageable gripping surfaces, which engage in response to an acceleration above the second acceleration level to prevent movement of the primary inertial element and prevent latch engagement. The primary inertial element will, in response to an acceleration between the first and second acceleration levels, engage the latch. An acceleration level below the first acceleration level is insufficient to cause either an engagement of the gripping surfaces or a latching of the primary inertial element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07559238&OS=07559238&RS=07559238
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07559238
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060526
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefor.

A need exists for a device that is capable of sensing inertial shock within a certain range or bandpass of acceleration levels. Such a device is useful for example in the arming sequence of a munition round to allow the arming sequence to commence when the round is fired but to prevent the sequence if the round is merely dropped. In an exemplary application one or more such devices may be placed on a shipping container to see if the container has been subject to shock as well as to what level of shock.

One way of providing the desired function is by the use of an accelerometer. One problem with the accelerometer however is that it requires not only a power supply but a signal processor as well. Such arrangement needs a significant volume to package the necessary components which is impractical for various situations including use in a munition round.

It is an aspect of the present invention to provide an inexpensive miniature inertial shock bandpass filter which is fabricated utilizing MEMS micro electromechanical systems techniques.

In accordance with the present invention an inertial shock bandpass filter device for detecting a shock event between first and second acceleration levels includes a primary inertial element and at least one secondary inertial element. A first support structure for the primary inertial element is provided along with a first spring arrangement connecting the primary inertial element to the first support structure. A second support structure for the secondary inertial element is provided along with a second spring arrangement connecting the secondary inertial element to the second support structure. The device includes a latch with the primary inertial element including a latch arm for engagement with the latch when the primary inertial element moves far enough in response to an acceleration between the first and second acceleration levels. The primary inertial element and the secondary inertial element include complementary engageable gripping surfaces which engage in response to an acceleration above the second acceleration level such engagement preventing movement and latching of the primary inertial element. An acceleration level below the first acceleration level is insufficient to cause engagement of the gripping surfaces or the latch arm with the latch.

In the drawings which are not necessarily to scale like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.

In acceleration is plotted on the vertical scale and time is plotted on the horizontal scale. The inertial shock bandpass filter device of the present invention is operative in the range or bandpass shown shaded between acceleration levels gand g. More particularly if the device is subjected to an acceleration less than g as indicated by curve A the acceleration will not be high enough to activate the device. Conversely if the acceleration is too high that is greater than g as indicated by curve B it will be outside the bandpass and the device likewise will not be activated. If however the acceleration is within the bandpass between gand g as indicated by curve C activation will take place.

The inertial shock bandpass filter includes a primary inertial element including a certain mass and one or more secondary inertial elements . Two such secondary inertial elements are shown by way of example and each has a mass which is less than that of inertial element . Primary inertial element is connected by a spring arrangement to a support structure which includes first and second spaced apart supports and . The spring arrangement includes in an exemplary embodiment serpentine shaped that is substantially S shaped or folded leaf shaped springs and connecting the primary inertial element to support and serpentine springs same as springs and and connecting the inertial element to support . The serpentine springs and may be of different tensions with different thicknesses or spring constants which can vary as needed.

Secondary inertial elements sometimes referred to as inertial elements are also connected to a support structure including respective supports and as well as to a common support . The spring arrangement for secondary inertial elements include serpentine springs to for example substantially S shaped springs as illustrated. The mass spring system of each inertial element and associated springs to or to is designed to have a slower response to acceleration than the mass spring system of inertial element and associated springs to . Generally a mass of inertial element is less than a mass of inertial element .

Inertial elements and each include complementary gripping surfaces for preventing movement of inertial element when the surfaces are engaged. For this purpose inertial element is formed with a series of teeth that is gripping surfaces and inertial elements are formed with a series of teeth that is gripping surfaces. The series of teeth are either in contact or separate from each other by a predetermined distance as indicated below. The spacing between teeth sets or the reflection distance is calculated based on a friction threshold needed to impede the movement of the masses.

A latching arm including a first arrowhead portion is connected to inertial element where the latching arm is capable of engaging a latch . The latching arm is intermediate the first arrowhead portion and the inertial element . More particularly latch includes projecting arms and including second and third arrowhead portions and . If inertial element travels far enough it will be captured by the latch in view of the arrowhead configuration.

If the inertial shock bandpass filter is utilized to determine if it or a container to which it is attached has experienced a shock event within the bandpass illustrated in the determination may be made electrically. To accomplish this outcome electrical contact pad is connected to support and electrical contact pad is connected to latch . Since the silicon is electrically conducting a completed electrical circuit will be established between contact pads and by virtue of the capture of inertial element in latch . The inertial shock bandpass filter would normally be contained in a protective package not illustrated through which electrical connection may be made with appropriate terminals on the package and the contained contact pads and . An electrical read out device may be applied to the package terminals to sense the latched condition. In addition multiple such inertial shock bandpass filters each with a different bandpass may be applied to the container. In another exemplary embodiment an actuator arm not illustrated may be connected to inertial element to move physically a lock mechanism for example in an arming arrangement for a munition round.

To operate as an inertial shock bandpass filter inertial elements and as well as springs to and to must be free to move and therefore must be free of any underlying silicon dioxide insulating layer . An exemplary way to accomplish the removal of the underlying insulating layer is by applying an etchant such as hydrofluoric acid to dissolve the silicon dioxide.

The etchant will in a relatively short period of time dissolve the insulation beneath the springs which are of small width thus freeing them for movement. In order to shorten the time for dissolving the silicon dioxide under the inertial elements and the inertial elements are provided with a series of apertures which extend from a top surface down to the insulating layer thereby allowing the etchant direct access to the undersurface of the inertial elements . Although some of the etchant dissolves the insulation under the supports and the process of freeing the inertial elements and springs is completed before the supports are completely freed and thus remain immovable.

As illustrated in if the inertial shock bandpass filter is subjected to a mild shock in the direction of arrow as depicted by curve A of the inertial elements and move very slightly but not enough to effect an engagement of teeth with teeth nor a latching of inertial element with latch . If a high shock condition is experienced as depicted by curve B of inertial elements as shown in will move sufficiently fast such that teeth of inertial elements will engage teeth of inertial element and prevent its movement toward latch . For the in passband condition of curve C of that is between gand g inertial elements will not move far enough under the acceleration conditions for teeth and to engage however inertial element will move far enough to latch or contact but without teeth engagement thereby allowing a latching condition as shown in .

In an exemplary embodiment of an inertial shock bandpass filter of a primary inertial element is connected to first and second supports and by a spring arrangement comprised of springs to . Similar to the embodiment depicted in inertial element includes apertures a latching arm with arrowhead for latching with arrowheads and at the end of projections and of latch .

Secondary inertial elements which each have a lower mass than inertial element include apertures . The inertial elements are each connected to a support by connection of respective springs to extension arms . Teeth at the ends of extension arms are operable under high acceleration conditions to mesh with teeth on inertial element to prevent its movement toward latch . Teeth are substantially adjacent to each other so as to be situated along a substantially same axis. With the arrangement of in response to a vertical acceleration in the direction of arrow each inertial element will swing pendulum style about the respective spring in the direction of arrow and thus the teeth may mesh.

In a manner similar to that shown in also illustrate the position of inertial shock bandpass filter elements under acceleration conditions depicted by respective curves A B and C of in response to an acceleration in the direction of arrow .

It will be readily seen by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention fulfills the primary objects set forth herein. After reading the foregoing specification one of ordinary skill in the art will be able to effect various changes substitutions of equivalents and various other aspects of the present invention as broadly disclosed herein. It is therefore intended that the protection granted hereon be limited only by the definition contained in the appended claims and equivalents. Having thus shown and described what is at present considered to be exemplary embodiments of the present invention it should be noted that the same has been made by way of illustration and not limitation. Accordingly all modifications alterations and changes coming within the spirit and scope of the present invention are herein meant to be included.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

