---

title: Space-time codes for linearly labelled PAM, PSK, QAM and related constellations using gray mapping
abstract: General algebraic space-time code constructions are presented for Gray-mapped 2-PSK, 2-PAM, and 4-QAM constellations. The space-time codes achieve the rate-diversity tradeoff—i.e., they allow the transmission of information at the maximum rate possible for the given signaling constellation and the achieved transmit diversity level. New codes created by applying a nonsingular linear or affine transformation to the constellation labels retain the optimality of the original codes with respect to the rate-diversity tradeoff. Extensions to p-PSK, p-PAM, p-QAM, and related constellations, for p prime, are also given.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07675990&OS=07675990&RS=07675990
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 07675990
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061024
---
This application claims the benefit of prior filed U.S. provisional Application No. 60 729 522 filed on Oct. 24 2005 and incorporated fully herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under National Science Foundation Grant No. CCR 0325781. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to the field of space time codes for linearly labelled constellations and more particularly to a method system and computer program product for constructing space time codes for linearly labelled constellations using Gray mapping.

Recent advances in coding theory include space time codes which provide diversity in multiple input multiple output MIMO antenna systems over fading channels with channel coding across a small number of transmit antennas. For wireless communication systems a number of challenges arise from the harsh RF propagation environment characterized by channel fading and co channel interference CCI . Channel fading can be attributed to diffuse and specular multipath while CCI arises from reuse of radio resources. Interleaved coded modulation on the transmit side of the system and multiple antennas on the receive side are standard methods used in wireless communication systems to combat time varying fading and to mitigate interference. Both are examples of diversity techniques.

Simple transmit diversity schemes in which for example a delayed replica of the transmitted signal is retransmitted through a second spatially independent antenna and the two signals are coherently combined at the receiver by a channel equalizer have also been considered within the wireless communications industry as a method to combat multipath fading. From a coding perspective such transmit diversity schemes amount to repetition codes and encourage consideration of more sophisticated code designs. Information theoretic studies have demonstrated that the capacity of multi antenna systems significantly exceeds that of conventional single antenna systems for fading channels. The challenge of designing channel codes for high capacity multi antenna systems has led to the development of space time codes in which coding is performed across the spatial dimension e.g antenna channels as well as time.

Space time codes are designed for MIMO communication systems that employ multiple transmit antennas to achieve spatial diversity. The modulated code words are often presented as complex values M T matrices in which the m t th entry sm t represents the discrete baseband signal transmitted from the m th transmit antenna at time t. The initial work on space time codes by Guey et al. and Tarokh et al. showed that the transmit diversity achieved by a space time code is equal to the minimum rank among the set of matrices produced as differences between distinct modulated code words. There is a tradeoff between achievable transmission rate and achievable transmit diversity level for space time codes. Full rank space time codes can achieve transmission rates no greater than one symbol per transmission interval. For rank d space time codes the maximum transmission rate is M d 1 symbols per transmission interval. Equivalently the size of an M T rank d space time code cannot exceed qT M d 1 where q is the size of the signaling constellation. Codes meeting this upper limit are referred to as maximal.

Let C be a linear error correcting code of length MT with M T over the discrete alphabet . The code words of C are presented as M T matrices in which the m t th entry a represents the information symbol that is modulated and transmitted from the m th transmit antenna at transmission interval t. If all of the modulated code word matrices have rank at least d over then the space time code is called an M T rank d code. In the special case that all of the modulated code words are of full rank M the space time code is called an M T full rank code. There is a tradeoff between achievable transmission rate and achievable transmit diversity level as dictated by the Singleton Bound. For rank d space time codes the maximum transmission rate is M d 1 symbols per transmission interval.

In U.S. Pat. No. 6 678 263 Hammons and El Gamal developed the so called binary rank criteria that allowed for the first time the algebraic design of space time codes achieving maximal spatial diversity of all orders. From the binary rank criteria they developed the general stacking construction for full diversity space time codes examples of which include block codes derived from Galois fields and rings and rate 1 M convolutional codes of optimal d. The binary rank criteria showed that the algebraically designed full rank BPSK modulated space time codes could be lifted to full rank QPSK modulated space time codes. In particular Hammons and El Gamal showed that if the linear binary codes A and B produce full rank space time codes when BPSK modulated then the quaternary code C A 2B produces a full rank space time code under QPSK modulation. They referred to this construction as the dyadic construction.

Building on the Hammons El Gamal framework Lu and Kumar showed that the dyadic construction extends to 2 PSK modulation in the natural way i.e. if the linear binary codes A A . . . Aproduce full rank space time codes under BPSK modulation then the 2 ary code

In U.S. Pat. No. 6 678 263 Hammons and El Gamal showed also that the BPSK and QPSK space time code constructions admit certain binary transformations that preserve the rank properties of the modulated space time codes.

In this application it is shown that similar results apply to the Lu Kumar basic constructions for 2 PSK 2 PAM and 4 QAM space time codes. In particular this refinement provides new algebraic space time codes that are suitable for use when as in the usual practice Gray mapping is used to label the signaling constellations.

This invention shows how to construct space time codes for 2 PAM 2 PSK and 4 QAM modulation that are suitable for different labelings of the constellation points. One way this is done is by introducing transformation into basic space time code constructions by Lu Kumar. Details of the new construction are set forth below. The present invention as set forth herein establishes that any linear transformation will preserve the codes optimal rate vs diversity properties. Explicit transformations are given to produce new codes suitable for Gray labeled 2 PAM 2 PSK and 4 QAM.

Referring to by way of an example a conventional digital cellular Direct Sequence Code Division Multiple Access DSCDMA base station to mobile station or forward link is shown using a conventional convolutional encoder and Viterbi decoder. also illustrates the mobile station to base station or reverse link.

At the transmit end the system in comprises a data segmentation and framing module where user information bits are assembled into fixed length frames from transmit data blocks . The N bits per frame are input to the base station s convolutional encoder of rate r which produces N r code symbols at the input of the channel interleaver . The channel interleaver performs pseudo random shuffling of code symbols and outputs the re arranged symbols to the spread spectrum modulator . The spread spectrum modulator uses a user specific transmit PN code generator to produce a spread spectrum signal which is carried on a RF carrier to the transmitter where a high power amplifier coupled to the transmit antenna radiates the signal to the base station. The techniques of spread spectrum modulation and RF transmission are well known art to one familiar with spread spectrum communications systems.

The signal received at the mobile station antenna is amplified in the RF receiver and demodulated by the spread spectrum demodulator which uses the same PN code generator as used by the base station transmitter to de spread the signal. The demodulated symbols are de interleaved by the channel de interleaver and input to the Viterbi decoder . The decoded information bits are reconstructed using data block reconstruction into receive data blocks and forwarded to the data terminal equipment at the receive end.

With reference to a digital cellular base station to mobile station link is shown to illustrate the implementation of space time encoding and decoding in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. While CDMA system is used as an example one familiar with the art would consider the present invention applicable to other types of wireless systems which can employ other types of multiple access methods such as frequency division multiple access FDMA time division multiple access TDMA and hybrid methods.

Transmit data blocks from the data terminal equipment are segmented and framed into fixed frame length and applied to the mobile s channel space time encoder . The output from a channel encoder is fed to the space time formatter which determines the parsing allocation and presentation order of the coded symbols to the various transmit antennas . The spatial formatter output is applied to the spread spectrum modulator which uses a user specific PN code generator to create spread spectrum signals carried on a RF carrier via base RF transmitter to the mobile station transmitter. The transmitter with high power amplifier coupled to the Transmit antenna radiates the signals via separate transmit antennas to the mobile station.

The signal received at one or more mobile station antenna s is amplified in the mobile RF receiver and demodulated in a phase shift keying demodulator which uses the same PN code generator as used by the base station transmitter to de spread the signal. The demodulated symbols are processed at space time decoder by the space time de formatter and input to the channel decoder . The decoded information bits are reconstructed into receive data blocks and forwarded to the data terminal equipment at the receive end. Depending on the space time code used the de formatter and the decoder can be grouped in a single maximum likelihood receiver.

With continued reference to the source generates k information symbols from a discrete alphabet X on the path which are encoded by an error control code C by the space time encoder . The space time encoder produces code words of length N over the symbol alphabet Y. The encoded symbols are mapped by the modulators and so on onto constellation points from a discrete complex valued signaling constellation for transmission across the channel. The modulated radio frequency signals for all of the L transmit antennas and so on are transmitted at the same time to the receiver space time demodulator . The space time channel decoder decodes the signals to the received data path . As shown the receiver provides M receive antennas to collect the incoming transmissions. The received baseband signals are subsequently decoded by the space time decoder .

The present invention is concerned primarily with the design of space time codes rather than the signal processing required to decode them. In most cases the decoding employs known signal processing for maximum likelihood detection.

In the following discussion notation is established and certain key ideas of the Lu Kumar approach upon which the novel space time code constructions of the present invention are built are explained. Following the discussion of the Lu Kumar approach new constructions of space time codes for applying linear and affine transformations to the space time code constructions proposed by Lu and Kumar in accordance with the present invention are described. As described the proper choice of transformation yields new algebraic space time codes that are compatible with Gray labelling.

We consider algebraic space time code design based on the ring of algebraic integers with a complex root of unity. The connection between modulated space time codes with entries from and binary codes over 0 1 is through the isomorphism 1 . We will let denote the corresponding projection modulo 1 . The following results from Lu and Kumar underlie the space time code constructions.

The following notation will be used. The set of M T matrices over an alphabet will be denoted by . When A is a matrix with entries in we write for the matrix whose i j th entry is . For matrices A and B the matrix A B is their Hermitian i.e. componentwise product.

Let be a linear transformation. We can extend this map to a linear transformation acting on tuples of M T binary matrices as follows. Let A A . . . A where Ais an M T matrix whose m t th entry is a. Then is the matrix whose m t th entry is a a . . . a. The component mappings . . . of are defined by the relationship . . . . The following straightforward properties of are worth special note.

The 2 PSK constellation consists of the points 1 for a a . . . a where is a complex primitive 2 th root of unity.

For let the notation be shorthand for . From the dyadic construction we know that S A is an M T space time code achieving the rate diversity tradeoff. The following theorem provides a generalization of the PSK dyadic construction.

Proof That S achieves the proper transmission rate follows immediately from the fact that A is maximal. It therefore suffices to show that the difference between distinct code words in S has rank at least d.

Let Awith . By Lemma 3 since is nonsingular over we have . Let l be the first index i for which . Then by Proposition 1 

One may interpret the mapping in Theorems 5 through 7 as changing the way the constellation is labelled. In this section we show that the proper choice of enables the use of Gray labelling which is common practice for these constellations.

For 2 PSK and 2 PAM the constellation points have a natural ordering with parameterization by the integers L 0 1 2 . . . 2 1. For 2 PSK the L th constellation point is s for 2 PAM s 2L 2 1 . Therefore it is natural to assign K bit labels to these constellation points by labelling swith the binary expansion of L. Since 4 QAM consists of two 2 PAM constellations in quadrature its natural labelling is the cross product of the constituent PAM labellings.

For signaling purposes however the natural labelling is usually not optimal. Over typical channels the predominant symbol errors at sufficiently high signal to noise ratios are those in which the transmitted constellation point is mistaken for one of its adjacent neighbors. Under these conditions the demodulated bit error rate depends asymptotically on the distribution of Hamming distances between labels of adjacent constellation points. The usual practice is to label 2 PSK 2 PAM and 4 QAM constellations using a Gray mapping. A Gray mapping is a function that maps the natural constellation labels to a new set having the property that all adjacent labels differ in exactly one bit position. With Gray labelling the demodulated bit error rate will then be asymptotically equal to the symbol error rate.

Consider the transformation in which the natural label b. . . bbis mapped to the new label a. . . aa with

For the basic PAM space time code construction the labelling is implicitly determined by equation 3 . Note that

For the basic QAM space time code construction the labelling is implicitly determined by equation 5 from which we derive equations for the two PAM quadrature components. Note that

Lu and Kumar developed a general space time code construction unifying the algebraic constructions for 2 PAM 2 PSK and 4 QAM constellations. This unified framework was further generalized by Hammons to provide space time codes for other common AM PSK modulation formats which codes also achieve the rate diversity trade off. The theorems of section III likewise generalize to the unified frameworks. Application to the Lu Kumar unified construction is addressed in this paper whereas generalization to the AM PSK cases will be presented separately.

Substituting maximal rank d binary codes Afor parameters ain 11 yields a general construction of space time codes that achieve the rate diversity trade off.

We again introduce the linear transformation this time with KU. In addition to the scalar components of defined previously we also define its subvector components through the action . . . . . . . In this notation the scalar components of are then indexed by the pairs u k so that . . . .

Proof Let S and S be distinct code words in S. Let u k denote the lexographically first index pair u k for which . Then

Consider the affine mapping given by where is the linear part of and is a constant. For KU the subvector components of are given by .

The constructions also generalize in a straightforward manner to the case of p PAM p PSK p QAM and related constellations when p 2 is prime. The underlying algebra is essentially the same. If is a complex primitive p th root of unity then 1 and for 0 l

We have shown that certain linear and affine transformations can be applied to the algebraic space time code constructions by Lu and Kumar while preserving their optimal rate diversity trade off property. The use of these transformations amounts to changing the way in which the modulator labels the constellation points. For 2 PAM 2 PSK and 4 QAM the proper choice of transformation yields new algebraic space time codes that are compatible with Gray labelling.

The above described steps can be implemented using standard well known programming techniques. The novelty of the above described embodiment lies not in the specific programming techniques but in the use of the steps described to achieve the described results. Software programming code which embodies the present invention is typically stored in permanent storage. In a client server environment such software programming code may be stored with storage associated with a server. The software programming code may be embodied on any of a variety of known media for use with a data processing system such as a diskette or hard drive or CD ROM. The code may be distributed on such media or may be distributed to users from the memory or storage of one computer system over a network of some type to other computer systems for use by users of such other systems. The techniques and methods for embodying software program code on physical media and or distributing software code via networks are well known and will not be further discussed herein.

It will be understood that each element of the illustrations and combinations of elements in the illustrations can be implemented by general and or special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or steps or by combinations of general and or special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions that execute on the processor create means for implementing the functions specified in the illustrations. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the processor provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the illustrations. Accordingly specification and claims support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions.

While there has been described herein the principles of the invention it is to be understood by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation to the scope of the invention. Accordingly it is intended by the appended claims to cover all modifications of the invention which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

