---

title: Control systems and methods for virtual power plants
abstract: Systems and methods for the control of distributed systems are presented, particularly virtual power plants. Control software therefore communicates through an interface with decentralized devices. Modules are provided to formulate strategies based on predicted demand for the system, for controlling individual system devices, for system evaluation, for accounting purposes and to provide a user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07813814&OS=07813814&RS=07813814
owner: SAP AG
number: 07813814
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20060929
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of virtual power plants but may be broadly applied to distributed systems of devices or systems that generate a collective quantity through diverse generators to meet a certain demand. Embodiments of the invention relate specifically to methods and systems for controlling and managing virtual power plants.

Virtual power plants produce power with high efficiency and are thus likely to be an important energy source in the future. A virtual power plant generator network comprises a collection of small decentralized power generating units. These might be for example windmills photovoltaic generators heat exchangers fuel cells or fossil fuel generators. These generating units are principally located on private residential properties or public buildings but can also be present in industrial or agricultural installations e.g. by using the heat generated by production processes.

The decentralized power generating units may be linked together over a communications network and controlled using software.

A first embodiment relates to a distributed system control unit comprising at least one communications interface the at least one communications interface coupled at least indirectly to two modules wherein a first of the two modules comprises executable code for controlling at least two geographically distributed devices and wherein a second of the two modules comprises executable code for developing a strategy to control the at least two geographically distributed devices.

A second embodiment relates to a method for controlling a plurality of geographically distributed devices comprising the steps of receiving data comprising active status and output of at least one device through a communications interface calculating a system state calculating based on the system state and historical data a predicted demand and controlling through the communications interface the at least one device corresponding to the predicted demand.

A further embodiment relates to a machine readable medium having computer code embedded therein which when executed causes the machine to perform a method comprising the steps of receiving data from a plurality of power generating devices the data indicating an active state and if active an output of each device receiving historical data from a database calculating a predicted power demand and controlling each of the plurality of devices to change a system state if the predicted demand is different than a present system state.

While the following description will primarily relate to virtual power plants embodiments of the present invention are envisioned as being useful in a number of applications involving the control of devices spread over a wide geographical area but used for a common purpose.

A representative virtual power plant is shown in . The virtual power plant has a control unit utility grid sections and solar power generating units and fuel cell generators and and fossil fuel generators and . It should be understood that the choice of generating units is merely for the sake of example. The generators through are generally geographically distributed. Also shown are communications networks and .

Each geographically distinct generating unit through is connected to a utility grid connection point. This allows the generating units to produce power that can be supplied to the grid to which it is connected. Each power generator through also has an isolation circuit not shown that allows the generator to be decoupled and isolated from the grid should it be desirable to take the generator offline. It should be noted that utility grid sections and may be part of the same grid which can be a public or private network.

Each geographically distinct generating unit through is also equipped with a communications interface not shown that allows it to communicate with control system through one of networks or . Communication may be had over any readily available link including public IP networks but is preferably performed over a private encrypted network for system security. The generators through may be redundantly coupled to multiple networks to control system .

Control system uses communication networks and which may be the same network to control the operation of the virtual power plant . Each of the power generators through reports information regarding its current status for example the current power level it is producing for the network its current maintenance status available fuel supply if applicable local loads etc. The control system accepts and processes incoming information about generators through and makes predictions about future energy demand and makes corresponding changes to the generating status of power generators through based on the predicted demand.

One embodiment of a control system may be seen in reference to which is a block diagram of a control system for a virtual power plant such as the power plant shown in . Control system should be understood as software such as that employed by SAP AG running on a hardware platform suitable for the computational task. Control system has a communications interface communications connections and control software which further comprises modules and . Control software further comprises a data storage and retrieval mechanism .

The control software is able to control virtual power plants and to assist in the solution of tasks that occur in the management of such virtual power plants. In order to accomplish this the control program is constructed of highly integrated modular components through . These components comprise the functionality for planning a power generation strategy evaluating the current state of the power plant controlling individual power generation accounting for power generation and the attendant costs revenues and bookkeeping as well as the provision of an control system operator interface. The control software may include further modules as needed for the management of tasks as they arise during the course of virtual power plant operation.

In a preferred embodiment modules forming parts of the control software SAP are constructed in a highly integrated and modular fashion. An exemplary module is shown in . Here the term module should be understood to mean a collection of code to perform one or more particular functions. Module comprises a module process which will be understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art to be a set of procedures and data that carry out the purpose of the module.

Module also comprises interfaces and . It should be understood that module may have a variety of interfaces depending on the needs of the system. Interfaces and are preferably Application Programming Interfaces APIs that allow the passage of data in a standardized way where standardized means that the interface that the interface has components that do not change through different versions of the control software. The interfaces and are used by module and at least one other module not shown to exchange data through communication pathways and . A suitable interface is any interface that allows a second module to communicate with module without the second module having direct access to the data space of module in the module process .

Preferably the interfaces also provide an encapsulation that allows the corresponding modules to communicate over suitable standardized interfaces with programs and applications from third party providers. The Modules can also be integrated into programs and applications from third parties. The reverse is also true more technically oriented programs from third party providers can be integrated into the control software over suitable standardized interfaces. The control software is thus capable of providing the functionality of the central control program of a virtual power plant.

The modularity is illustrated in wherein a control system is described in reference to a specific embodiment. Control system has a communications interface and communications connections similar to the control system shown in . Control system also has control software which comprises a generator control module a planning module an accounting module an evaluation module and a control system user interface module . Each module through also has at least one corresponding interface and through which the modules communicate with one another. Generator control module is further in communication with individual decentralized generators through communications interface . Generator control module in this embodiment can thus provide state information relating to the decentralized power generators to other modules as needed and can control the decentralized modules by sending signals to the decentralized power generators that comprise control signals or command information.

Control system also comprises an information storage subsystem such as those known in the art which is responsible for keeping track of the system state historical data accounting data and various information used to perform calculations in each of the modules. Subsystem may comprise a number of databases and corresponding interfaces or managers that allow access to information from the various system modules.

A further embodiment of the control system is depicted in . shows a control system having a communications interface communications connections and a control software . Control system also comprises a module for integration of other system modules a module for planning of the expected energy demand a module for communication of the individual power generators with the central control and for control of the individual energy producers in real time interface modules and for interfacing with third party modules and systems a module for the calculation of the costs contributions of power for the individual power generators accounting a module for performing system evaluation and computation of the system state and a module for the visualization via a user interface of planning control and accounting data. Subsystem is responsible for data storage and management much as subsystem in .

Module acts as a data switch to communications interface and provides other modules with interfacing for intermodule communications. Of course it should be noted that the arrangement of may also be used or some combination of the two. That is some modules may be in direct communication with each other or communications interface through their own integrated interfaces while other modules may communicate through systems integration module . Module also performs housekeeping activities such as records storage and maintenance by means of subsystem .

Modules and provide standardized interface functionality for third party or additional modules that may be used depending on user preferences. For example it may be necessary or advisable to generate reports specific to a third party user format or it may be necessary or advisable to communicate with a third party database or foreign system. Interface modules and provide flexibility through standardized interfaces for performing integration to foreign systems.

Modules and in combination with module provide the computational engine of the control aspects of the system. It should be noted that these modules may be integrated into a single module but that advantages can be achieved when divided. This is particularly true in the case of virtual power plant systems where a wide variety of systems comprising decentralized power generators may need to be integrated and controlled in the system. It is therefore also to be seen that advantages can be obtained by further modularity. This can mean for example dividing control module into a number of submodules each specific to a particular generator type including manufacturer model number communications interface etc. . Modules and provide a number of services for managing virtual power plants including automatic reaction to disturbances and failure of decentralized power generators intelligent and independent compensation .

A data flow chart for an exemplary planning module is explained herein with reference to . Information status current power load etc. from the individual decentralized power generators connected to the network is delivered to the information interface of the exemplary planning module. This information may be delivered from any relevant pathway but is preferably delivered from a system evaluation module over a corresponding interface.

The planning module also has access to stored historical information which can be provided for example by database manager to information interface . It should be understood that any conventional storage scheme may be used. Information provided by database manager may relate to previous states of the system including load energy demand and individual generator status performance information. It may also including historical load demand information correlated to the time as well as other pertinent information such as current weather conditions . The information is pre processed at and passed to intelligent prediction algorithms which are responsible for future energy demand as well as updating prior predictions with more current data. In addition the information is passed to a strategy output which transmits information to database manager . Database manager transmits data to information interface .

The planning module thereupon generates strategies that guide the covering of short mid and long term energy demand. Strategies take into account a number of factors including the availability of individual decentralized power generators cost power functions known or estimated for individual power generators the availability of stored energy and its cost the projected load and demand volatility as well as economic factors such as incentives that may be affected through use of particular generators. The Planning module attempts to develop a strategy that will optimize cost performance while still maintaining high reliability. The results of the strategy are fed back for storage to database manager and output to generator control module over an appropriate interface.

An exemplary generator control module is now delineated in greater detail in reference to . The generator control module receives data from the planning module through a corresponding interface. This information is communicated to decision section which may also use information from a system evaluation module . Decision section implements the strategies of the planning section by controlling individual decentralized power generators through the control interface via a generator control . Information about control decisions made is output to other system elements responsible for keeping track of the system state.

The control module has several options for control. According to the circumstances generators can be taken on or offline or their output redirected to storage if available. If an active decentralized power generator suddenly goes offline the generator control module has several possibilities to compensate for the gap in production increasing the energy production of online decentralized power generators taking addition power generators online or switching energy storage units online. Moreover based on a comparison between planned data and actual data additional activities can be carried out if for example the power of a generator lies outside of its specific range which can indicate a problem. Here the generator control module can cause the execution of diagnostic and repair programs or send messages and reports to the repair team.

An exemplary control system user interface is described with reference to . The control system user interface module receives input from the user through a user input interface . Input interface may be in communication with a display constructor . Display constructor may be in communication with a user output . This information allows the module to understand how the user wishes to configure control system user interface output. Information about the current system state and predicted state data is also communicated to the module.

The display constructor has the capability to display data from the control system as well as data from integrated programs and applications from third parties in a form suitable for users over output . The display format is evaluated interactively dependent on the application context. For example the overview of periodic data concerning planned and actual power generation can be prepared and displayed as a table. The detailed data for a decentralized power generator such as for example the power level can be visualized as power curves. The overview of status active inactive out of order etc. of the decentralized power generators of a virtual power plant are displayed with suitable picture elements LEDs stoplights etc. All indicators generated by the display constructor are automatically updated when the underlying data changes through the input of state information . The user has the opportunity to change the graphical display according to suit his or her needs.

An exemplary accounting module is described herein with reference to . The accounting module receives information about past states through an information interface as well as stored information necessary to perform financial calculations such as tariff plans and information that may be supplied by third parties such as current rate structures. This information is used by a calculation section to generate reportable data in calculation section which is past to report generator . Report generator generates based on the data for the decentralized power plants corresponding reports. The reporting flow over electronic communication with the accounting entities of the power plant operators and operators of decentralized power generators is supported as is the printing of reports on paper. Through an exchange of data with authorities the focused and automatic implementation of tax based withholding or incentive programs can be carried out. Accounting data is also passed to record keeping for proper archival of the information. In an exemplary embodiment a database manager may be in communication with an external source and calculation section .

An evaluation module is explained with reference to . The evaluation module comprises analytical and calculation programs to aide the investigation and evaluation of current data from the virtual power plant network. It receives over an appropriate information interface both stored information from a database manager or other suitable storage system as well as information about current device state through a generator interface . Evaluation section computes a standardized set of system state data and may check this data against criterion indicative of system health provided by database manager . Evaluation section may be in communication with an output generator . Output Generator may be in communication with a generator control module . Together with the rest of the control system modules this allows simplified maintenance of the virtual power plant as well as proactivity on the basis of predicted data .

While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it will be understood by the person of ordinary skill in the art that such embodiments are exemplary of the invention and do not define it in a restrictive manner.

