---

title: Air conditioning system with electrostatically atomizing function
abstract: An air conditioning system with an electrostatically atomizing function includes an electrostatically atomizing unit and a ventilation duct which flows conditioned air. The electrostatically atomizing unit generates a mist of charged minute water particles. The electrostatically atomizing unit is provided with a discharge port which locates adjacent to an air outlet of the ventilation duct. The mist of the charged minute water particles flows into an airflow which is sent from the ventilation duct. The mist of the charged minute water particles effectively spreads to the space by the air flow without dissipating inside the ventilation duct.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07959717&OS=07959717&RS=07959717
owner: Panasonic Electric Works Co., Ltd.
number: 07959717
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20061211
---
The present invention relates to an air conditioning system with an electrostatically atomizing function generating a mist of charged minute water particles.

Japanese patent application no. 2005 131549A discloses an electrostatically atomizing unit which generates the mist of the charged minute water particles by electrostatically atomizing water. The electrostatically atomizing unit atomizes the water which is supplied to an emitter electrode by Rayleigh breakup so as to generate the mist of the charged minute water particles of nanometer size. The mist of the charged minute water particles includes radicals is able to float in air over an extended time period and is able to spread in the air in large quantity. The mist of the charged minute water particles adheres to malodorous component which adheres to surface of walls clothes and curtains of the space where the mist is discharged and subsequently deodorizes the malodorous component effectively.

Thus the mist of the charged minute water particles is expected to spread in the space extensively by the air which is sent by the air conditioning system. But in the case to incorporate the electrostatically atomizing unit into the air conditioning system a following problem occurs. Namely in the case of arranging the electrostatically atomizing unit at the inside of a ventilation duct the electrostatically atomizing unit is exposed to a high temperature air or a low humidify air which are conditioned by a heat exchanger of the air conditioning system. The conditioned air evaporates the water which is supplied to the emitter electrode. The conditioned air causes the emitter electrode not to electrostatically atomize the water. And in the case of incorporating the electrostatically atomizing unit into the air conditioning system user needs to supply the water for electrostatically atomizing. So the electrostatically atomizing unit includes a cooling means for cooling the emitter electrode. The cooling means cools the emitter electrode. The moisture in air condenses the water to the emitter electrode. In this way the emitter electrode electrostatically atomizes the condensed water and generates the mist of the charged minute water particles. The electrostatically atomizing unit does not need to supply the water and has great usability. But the above electrostatically atomizing unit is not able to condense the water from the conditioned air. As a result the above electrostatically atomizing unit is not able to generate the mist of the charged minute water particles.

In addition for example the air conditioning system for automobile use includes an air conditioning equipment such as a heat exchanger an air outlet to send the air to an interior space of an automobile and a long ventilation duct being provided between the air conditioning equipment and the air outlet. In the case of arranging the electrostatically atomizing device inside the ventilation duct the ventilation duct causes the dissipation of the mist of the charged minute water particles before reaching to the air outlet. In this way the ventilation duct causes the problem to extremely lessen an amount of the mist of the charged minute water particles for discharging to the interior space of the automobile.

In view of the above problem the present invention has been achieved to provide an air conditioning system with the electrostatically atomizing function for effectively spreading the mist which is generated by the electrostatically atomizing to the space.

The air conditioning system in accordance with the present invention comprises an electrostatically atomizing unit and a ventilation duct configured to flow a conditioned air and to have an air outlet for sending the conditioned air. The electrostatically atomizing unit comprises an emitter electrode a water supplying means for supplying water to the emitter electrode an opposed electrode disposed in an opposed relation to the emitter electrode and a high voltage source. The high voltage source is configured to apply a high voltage across the emitter electrode and the opposed electrode thereby electrostatically atomizing the water at a tip of the emitter electrode to generate a mist of charged minute water particles flowing from the emitter electrode towards and through the opposed electrode. The electrostatically atomizing unit comprises a discharge port for discharging the mist of the charged minute water particle. The electrostatically atomizing unit is disposed outwardly of the ventilation duct to locate the discharge port adjacent to the air outlet in order to carry the mist on the conditioned air flowing from the air outlet. In this case the air conditioning system is able to spread the mist of the charged minute water particles extensively and effectively to the interior space without causing the dissipation of the mist of the charged minute water particles at the ventilation duct.

Preferably the electrostatically atomizing unit includes an atomization barrel which is configured to surround the emitter electrode and hold the opposed electrode. The atomization barrel is formed at its front end with the discharge port. The atomization barrel has a center axis which is inclined with respect to a direction of the conditioned air flowing from the air outlet. In this case the mist of the charged minute water particles is effectively carried on conditioned airflow.

Preferably the electrostatically atomizing unit includes an atomization barrel which is configured to surround the emitter electrode and hold the opposed electrode and includes an extension duct flowing the mist of the charged minute water particles discharged from the atomization barrel. The extension duct is formed at its front end with the discharge port and is arranged to locate the discharge port downstream of the air outlet. In this case of using the extension duct the electrostatically atomizing unit is able to be located away from the air outlet.

Preferably the extension duct is a bendable flexible duct. In this case the bendable flexible duct increases a degree of a freedom of an arranging position of the electrostatically atomizing unit.

Preferably the extension duct is tapered to have its inside diameter smaller towards the discharge port than at the connection with the atomization barrel. The electrostatically atomizing unit generates noise by applying the high voltage for generating the mist of the charged minute water particles. In this case the extension duct is able to reduce the noise leakage to the outside. Consequently the extension duct is able to provide the noise reduction effect.

In addition the electrostatically atomizing unit includes an atomization barrel which is configured to surround the emitter electrode and hold the opposed electrode and includes the extension duct flowing the mist of the charged minute water particles discharged from the atomization barrel. Preferably the extension duct is formed at its front end with the discharge port which is connected to the ventilation duct immediately upstream of the air outlet.

In addition it is preferable that the ventilation duct is configured to have a branch duct which merges to a portion of the extension duct to flow a portion of the conditioned air into the extension duct. In this case the conditioned air creates airflow inside the extension duct. The airflow effectively carries the mist of the charged minute water particles to the air which is discharged from the air outlet effectively.

Now a reference is made to the attached drawings to explain an air conditioning system in accordance with an embodiment of a present invention. shows an example of the present invention which is incorporated to the air conditioning system for automobile use. The air conditioning system includes a heat exchanging chamber an air incoming duct and a ventilation duct . The heat exchanging chamber includes a heat exchanger . The air incoming duct is provided in order to take the air of the inside and outside of the automobile to the heat exchanger . The ventilation duct is provided in order to send the air which is heat exchanged at the heat exchanging chamber to the inside of an automobile. The air incoming duct is provided with a fan for taking the air and an air filter . The fan creates a forced airflow. The forced airflow sends conditioned air to the inside of the automobile from air outlets which are disposed at the front end of the ventilation duct and at the midstream of the ventilation duct .

An electrostatically atomizing unit is located adjacent to one of the air outlets . In addition the electrostatically atomizing unit is able to be located at each air outlet . As shown in the air outlets send the air flow. The air flow carries the mist of the charged minute water particles which is generated by the electrostatically atomizing unit and spreads the mist of the charged minute water particles to an interior space of the automobile.

As shown in the electrostatically atomizing unit includes an atomization barrel which holds an emitter electrode an opposed electrode and a cooling device . The emitter electrode is arranged along a central axis of the atomization barrel is configured to have its rear end fixed to an upper side of the cooling device and is configured to have its front end which is projected into the atomization barrel . The opposed electrode is formed into the ring shape and has a circular window in the center. The opposed electrode is configured to be fixed at the front end of the atomization barrel and is configured to have its center of the circular window aligned with the center axis of the atomization barrel . The opposed electrode is spaced from the discharge end of the front end of the emitter electrode along the axial direction of the atomization barrel . Both the emitter electrode and the opposed electrode are connected to an external high voltage source . The high voltage source includes a transformer and is designed to apply a predetermined voltage between the emitter electrode and the grounded opposed electrode . The high voltage source applies the high voltage for instance 4.6 kV to the emitter electrode and generates the high voltage electric field between the discharge end of the emitter electrode and the inner circumferential edge of the circular window of the grounded opposed electrode . And as mentioned later the high voltage source charges the water which is supplied onto the emitter electrode . The discharge end of the emitter electrode discharges the mist of the charged minute water particles.

The high voltage source applies the high voltage between the emitter electrode and the opposed electrode so as to generate the Coulomb force between the opposed electrode and the water held at the front end of the emitter electrode . And then a portion of a surface of the water protrudes from the surface of the water. In this way the Taylor cone is formed on the surface of the water. Electric charges are concentrated to the tip of the Taylor cone. The electric field intensity of the tip of the Taylor cone becomes large due to the electric charges. In this way the Coulomb force generated at the tip of the Taylor cone becomes larger thereby enlarging the Taylor cone. When the Coulomb force becomes larger than a surface tension of the water a large amount of the mist of the charged minute water particles of nanometer size is generated by repeating the disintegration of the Taylor cone Rayleigh breakup . The mist of the charged minute water particles is discharged out of the atomization barrel through the opposed electrode together with an airflow being caused by an ion wind which flows from the emitter electrode toward the opposed electrode . A peripheral wall of a rear end of the atomizing barrel is provided with a plurality of air inlets. The airflow is kept by the air which flows from a plurality of the air inlets.

The atomization barrel has its bottom to which the cooling device is fixed. The cooling device comprises a Peltier effect thermoelectric module. The cooling device has its cooling side which is coupled to the emitter electrode . The cooling side of the cooling device cools the emitter electrode to a temperature of dew point or below thereby condensing the water to the emitter electrode from moisture of circumambient air. The cooling device defines a water supplying means in order to supply the water to the emitter electrode . The cooling device includes a pair of conductive circuit boards and a plurality of thermoelectric elements which are connected in series between the conductive circuit boards. The cooling device cools the emitter electrode at a cooling rate which is determined by the applied variable voltage from an external cooling power source . The conductive circuit board of the cooling side is thermally coupled to the rear end of the emitter electrode . Meanwhile the conductive circuit board of a heat radiation side is thermally coupled to a heat radiating board . The heat radiating board is fixed to the rear end of the atomization barrel and is provided with a heat radiating fin for promoting a heat radiation. The cooling power source controls the cooling device to maintain the temperature of the emitter electrode at a suitable temperature according to the ambient temperature and the ambient moisture. Namely the cooling power source is configured to control the cooling device to maintain the temperature of the emitter electrode at the suitable temperature for condensing a sufficient amount of the water onto the emitter electrode .

The electrostatically atomizing unit which includes the above components is held to a casing which incorporates the high voltage power source and the cooling power source . As shown in the electrostatically atomizing unit is located adjacent to the air outlet of the ventilation duct . The mist of the charged minute water particles M is discharged through a discharge port of the front end of the atomization barrel and is carried by the conditioned airflow which flows from the air outlet . The electrostatically atomizing unit is arranged to have its atomization barrel which has the central axis which is inclined to the airflow which flows from the air outlet . Namely the electrostatically atomizing unit is arranged to have its atomization barrel which has the central axis which is inclined to the central axis of an opening of the air outlet . As a result the mist of the charged minute water particles M is able to be efficiently carried by the airflow and is able to spread into the interior space effectively.

