---

title: Acoustically induced blood stasis and in vivo optical spectroscopy
abstract: Ultrasound-induced blood stasis has been observed for more than thirty years. Most of the literature has been focused on the health risks associated with this phenomenon and methods employed to prevent stasis from occurring during ultrasound imaging. To date, experimental observations have been either in vitro or invasive. The current work demonstrates ultrasound-induced blood stasis in murine tumor and nontumor tissue, observed through noninvasive measurements of optical spectroscopy, and discusses possible diagnostic uses for this previously undesirable effect of ultrasound.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855738&OS=08855738&RS=08855738
owner: University of Rochester
number: 08855738
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060817
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 709 108 filed Aug. 18 2005 whose disclosure is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present disclosure.

The work leading to the present invention was supported by National Cancer Institute Grant No. CA107860. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to therapeutic and diagnostic techniques and more particularly to therapeutic and in vivo diagnostic techniques combining acoustically induced blood stasis with optical spectroscopy.

Stationary sound waves have long been known to create banding effects when solids are suspended in liquids sand in air in a cylinder bubbles in water etc. Stationary ultrasound waves can create bands of red blood cells in vitro in chick embryos removed from the egg shell but kept alive in saline solution. The banding is due to the standing pressure wave created by the ultrasound. Even a traveling pressure wave with small amounts of reflection at the tissue boundaries can cause banding of blood cells in the plasma medium. Many have continued to study the diagnostic limits and dangers of ultrasound and ultrasound induced stasis but to the best of our knowledge no one has investigated the diagnostic potential.

A limiting factor in studying this ultrasound induced phenomenon has been the difficulty of measuring the blood flow alterations. Previous works have required the blood vessels to be dissected from the abdomen of mice or the removal of chick embryos from their shells so as to be seen with microscopes and stereoscopes. The phenomenon has only been observed invasively and only in a few vessels immediately on the tissue surface or in vessels separated from the surrounding tissue. Methods have been suggested to avoid prolonged blood stasis during diagnostic imaging and ultrasound intensity limits have been established to avoid tissue damage and to allow the blood flow to rebound. The current experiments have been conducted within the FDA therapeutic ultrasound limits SPTA 0.720 mW cm and blood stasis and banding have been observed to be reversible under these conditions.

It has been shown that oxy and deoxyhemoglobin have signature absorption and scattering effects visible in steady state broadband diffuse reflectance optical spectroscopy. Furthermore oxyhemoglobin saturation can be determined using spectroscopic measurements of light reflected from tissue and analyzed with the diffusion approximation or the higher order P3 approximation. Spectral analysis performed with a P3 approximation fit has been shown to be sensitive to the dynamic changes of hemoglobin oxygen saturation due to changes in oxygen content of air being inhaled by mice.

Another topic of interest is ultrasound ablation. Ultrasound is currently being studied by several research groups as a tool for complete noninvasive tissue ablation. In general the methods being studied employ a single focused transducer or an array of transducers capable of producing a variable distance focal point. The focused ultrasound is either swept through the tissue or operated in a burst mode at different burst durations and frequencies at high intensities with the outcome being a sudden localized temperature increase. The elevated temperatures are maintained for varying periods and frequencies and cause cell death only in regions where the ultrasound is focused. The amount of temperature increase is proportional to the driving power of the transducer s and to the duration of the burst. For example a 30 second burst of ultrasound produced by a single focused transducer driven by a 20 W signal can produce a temperature increase of 14 C. A full minute of sonication at the same power can produce an overall temperature increase of 30 C.

Cell death has been shown to occur when temperatures are elevated to temperatures above 41 C for extended periods of time where 37 C is the ambient body temperature. A general rule is that for temperatures in the range of 43 C a time of 150 240 minutes at the elevated temperature will cause complete cell death. The extensive range of times is due to various cell types and their respective abilities to survive higher temperature environments. For each degree above 43 C the exposure time needed for complete cell death is halved. Another way to express this general rule is the following equation 

where T is the temperature at time t measured over the interval t. The sum of this equation t is the time equivalent had the temperature remained at 43 C and a value greater than 240 minutes for timplies almost certain complete cell death.

All published HIFU tissue ablation techniques rely upon a single transducer or array of transducers to produce a focused traveling wave acoustic field. The focus is located at 80 90 130 or 160 mm for the various designs and the focal spots were approximately 1 mm in diameter and 5 mm long. Regions of ablation were in the range of 4 mm in diameter and 7 mm long. The sonication times and intensities varied from device to device and from patient to patient. In general for the burst designs pulses were between 10 and 20 seconds in duration and the intensity ranged from 28 W 50 W for one study and 100 W 400 W for another study. The studies employing a swept ultrasound focal zone employed higher intensities but the ultrasound was constantly moving at a rate of 1 3 mm s.

Reports of previous studies are not in agreement regarding the intensity required for complete cell death in the region of ultrasound focus. Only half of the studies report temperature information for the tissue samples being sonicated. The sweeping ultrasound studies seem to employ extremely high intensities and do not record the temperature changes inside nor outside the focal zone. These studies simply record the pathological studies performed on the excised tissue. In those studies that do report temperature increases the temperature increases range from 20 C 50 C for ten second pulses with about 50 second delays between subsequent sonications.

In general the complete ablation of tissue samples of 1 2 cubic centimeters requires on average 2 hours of ultrasound treatment. All studies have reported patients complaining of pain even when employing powers as low as 30 Watts. The present models require the patient to be lying on her stomach with the HIFU surgery device located below the breast with a lesion. This technique inhibits the treatment of tumors near the chest wall and is dangerous because of the exposure of the chest cavity to high intensity ultrasound.

To that end the present invention in at least one embodiment combines the above techniques focused standing wave ultrasound induced blood stasis and optical spectroscopy to develop a noninvasive imaging tool with potential use in tissue diagnostics.

Cells require a constant supply of oxygen for metabolic processes. Normally as the cells consume oxygen hemoglobin molecules in the blood continually replenish the oxygen supply as the blood flows through the vessels. When standing wave ultrasound is used to slow or stop the blood flow the oxyhemoglobin saturation decreases as the available oxygen is depleted. When the blood flow is stopped or slowed for short periods of time the oxyhemoglobin saturation can be observed to decrease using optical spectroscopy measurements and return to pre ultrasound levels shortly after the ultrasound radiation is stopped.

The ultrasound intensities employed have been shown to create very little heating of the tissue and have not been shown to damage tissue. The pressures required to cause banding in moving blood are much lower than the intensities needed to deform the tissue of the heart.

The current experiments were designed to remain below tissue heating tissue damage and tissue pressure thresholds and below the current FDA limits of diagnostic ultrasound intensities.

The invention has been experimentally verified. As hypothesized the phenomenon of acoustic contrast due to blood flow stasis was clearly shown in the near infrared NIR spectral region. There were marked differences in the response of tumor vs. normal tissue to this acoustic contrast in the mouse model to the extent that a simple analytical discriminator can achieve diagnostic accuracy of 0.90 for the area under the receiver operating characteristics ROC curves. Sono contrast NIR measurements are quantitatively predictive of the immunohistochemical measurement of blood vessel morphology in regression analysis at p

The blood flow arrestment can be used to advantage in normal tissue by sparing it regionally from harmful interventions such as radiation or other temporal therapies. Of course this does not need optical spectroscopy but rather is based on the general principle that ultrasound when used to arrest blood flow temporarily may be employed as an adjuvant to protect normal tissue as well as expose diseased tissue to therapeutics. Along the same thought it is not necessary to employ optical spectroscopy any technique that is sensitive to changes in blood flow or concentration will be able to detect the difference in effect caused by ultrasound in different tissue types e.g. diseased vs. healthy .

Also it is possible to use ultrasound and infrared spectroscopy for the detection diagnosis characterization and localization of cancers inside the body such as the prostate or cervix. One approach is to administer ultrasound from outside the body or through a bodily cavity such as the rectum and interrogate infrared imaging through another bodily cavity such as the urethra via a 360 degree or rotating light source collection fiber assembly which may contain a plurality of active interrogation depths along the assembly for 3 dimensional imaging. It uses the same principle of creating spectral contrast via focal ultrasound but the design of the instrumentation is different from that of exposed solid organs. Two possible configurations will be described in greater detail below where the focal ultrasound is administered either trans rectally or trans abdominally.

Three variations of the invention will now be discussed. For such variations it is sometimes desirable to operate the device in a high magnetic field or high radiation field setting which requires a isolation of instrumentation into in field and out of field remote subsystems and b magnetic compatibility or radiation resistance for the in field instrumentation.

The first variation involves high intensity focused ultrasound for ablation of benign or malignant masses in the breast or other soft tissues. There is a lack of FDA approved high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU system for the ablation of benign or malignant solid masses in the breast. One HIFU manufacturer Haifu based in Chongqing China currently dominates the world market by virtue of having a large base of clinical experience primarily from clinical trials in China. Several research groups in the U.S. are collaborating with Haifu to conduct trials that are designed to support FDA approval of this system in the U.S. market. This device is bulky expensive and uses MRI for guidance and temperature monitoring see for example http www.hifutech.com and http www.medica.de cipp md medica custom pub content lang 2 oid 17541 ticket g u e s t . Although it is multi purpose the size expense and complexity of the system do not warrant widespread use of common diseases found in the U.S. such as fibroadenomas high risk lesions such as atypical ductal or lobular hyperplasia papilloma fibromatosis papillomatosis and clinically confined cancers of the breast.

For example fibroadenoma is a benign condition of the breast which often leads to surgical removal in the operating room due to patient discomfort and clinical concern if imaging findings indicate interval growth . There is no risk of disease spread if the original fibroadenoma is not completed excised therefore it is an excellent candidate for more conservative treatments such as in vivo image guided ablation. Regarding breast cancers in the U.S. and western countries widespread screening programs genetic assays improved diagnostic tools such as compound ultrasound dynamic contrast enhanced MRI and large core needle biopsy have continually led to early diagnosis with tumor size often below 1 cm. For such small tumors traditional lumpectomy under rudimentary wire localization guidance in open surgery is both overly invasive and inefficient. Thus there is a need to develop a technology enabled image guided minimally invasive method to ablate a well circumscribed mass in the breast ultimately operating in an outpatient or office setting and being available to all community healthcare environments.

The present invention can address the above stated needs effectively. It is proposed to use two ultrasonic transducers driven by an external amplifier capable of therapeutic power delivery with the ultrasonic beams intersecting at an angle such as 90 degrees which in turn defines the region of HIFU. This region is first visualized by such means as a diagnostic ultrasound probe positioned through the central axis and its tissue characteristics may be interrogated via optical spectroscopy as disclosed below with regard to the third variation .

Temperature monitoring in the presence of blood flow and tissue heterogeneity is a known challenge in HIFU. We employ a simple solution for the breast by inserting tiny temperature measuring semiconductor probes thermistors interstitially in and around the mass to be ablated. Digital readout and feedback control are possible to ensure adequate but safe ablation power.

In addition to ultrasound guidance it is conceptually simple to integrate MRI guidance when the present invention is separated into the in room magnetically compatible subsystem and the remote out of field subsystem. Co registration of image space between MRI and the present invention is achieved by imaging MRI fiducial points at known locations in the present system. Co registration of MRI and ultrasound image spaces can be achieved similarly. Use of MRI for guidance may be advantageous in some cases because dynamic contrast enhanced MRI is best for delineating the extent of cancerous disease in the breast at this time.

Our design and protocol aim to lower the intensity required for tissue ablation increase access to more tumors in the breast eliminate pain and discomfort from extreme high intensity ultrasound reduce the risk of damaging tissue along the beam path and on the tissue surface decrease the danger of exposing the chest cavity to acoustic radiation and decrease the treatment time.

The chief difference between previous systems and the present proposed system is the use of a plurality of transducers e.g. dual 1 MHz transducers capable of producing a single standing wave in the region where the two corresponding focal zones overlap. The system being proposed allows for the patient to remain seated during the entire treatment. The benefits of using two transducers are reduced power needed for the individual acoustic fields isolated and localized high intensity region and a preconfigured geometry for a precisely known high intensity focal volume eliminating the need for pretreatment location calibration.

All current clinical models rely upon a single transducer model using MRI to monitor the heating and location of the high intensity focal zone. The present design will not require the time and expense of MRI correlation. The focal zone will be known precisely due to the geometry of the dual transducers. Temperatures can be measured using a simple fiber array capable of measuring IR heat waves. Additionally the present system will be equipped with a secondary ultrasound imaging system which can measure tissue ablation due to the change in tissue elasticity and deformability after ablation.

The second variation involves focused ultrasound for manipulation of tissue oxygenation to aid radiotherapy. Radiation therapy for cell kill relies on the presence of oxygen. Normal tissues are well oxygenated in a steady state whereas tumor tissues can be either hypoxic when the mass is large or inefficiently oxygenated due to malformed blood vessels. As explained above focused ultrasound can be used to manipulate blood flow and tissue oxygenation in a murine model. Another embodiment aids radiotherapy of human cancers either immediately prior to or during administration of radiation therapy. As will be shown below the ultimate aim is to a enhance the therapeutic ratio of tumor kill vs. normal tissue sparing b shorten the course of fractionated radiotherapy from the typical 5 8 weeks to 1 hr 5 days.

In conventional radiotherapy the radiation kills tumor cells up to the point where only hypoxic cells are left intact because of lack of oxygen. These hypoxic cells then re oxygenate as the tumor burden decreases and the hypoxic region is exposed. For this reason radiation is typically delivered in fractions usually one fraction per day 5 fractions per week and lasts for 5 8 weeks for a definitive course of therapy. Of course tumor continues to grow over the weekend but radiotherapy is rarely administered on Saturdays and Sundays. Many patients desire a short course of radiation ideally a single fraction or at least one week of treatment instead of many weeks. This is why treatment techniques such as MammoSite and seed implant brachytherapy are popular. Using the present invention it is possible to re oxygenate the tumor volume prior to during or immediately after a period of radiation delivery via such mechanisms as reactive hyperemia from focused ultrasound. For example focused ultrasound can be directed at the tumor cavity when the patient is positioned for treatment of breast cancer using modern computer controlled linear accelerator. After a pre determined dose is delivered the radiation is switched off and the ultrasound pulse is activated briefly to manipulate blood flow in the region in a fashion to accelerate re oxygenation thus shortening the requirement for fractionation from one fraction per day to approximately 50 sec. per fraction. This is the principle on which a new era of radiation treatment of cancers via rapid fractionation is based.

Another aim in radiotherapy is to spare normal tissues surrounding the tumor target volume. Normal tissues are usually well perfused i.e. susceptible to radiation damage due to availability of oxygen. Thus there is a reverse therapeutic ratio i.e. tumor cells will be protected while normal cells will be killed in single fraction radiation. This is another rationale for the need of prolonged fractionation schemes. The present invention allows use of focused ultrasound to suppress blood flow and thus protect normal tissues during radiation delivery. This is achieved by directing the focused ultrasound geographically at the in field normal tissue volume in coordination with beam on control of the linear accelerator so that oxygen is temporarily depleted in healthy tissue when the radiation is switched on. Therefore the present invention eliminates the undesirable reverse therapeutic ratio and in fact creates an advantageous therapeutic ratio sparing normal tissue while achieving cell kill in a single fraction or small number of fractions.

There are several radiation enhancing agents under intense research study. These include antiangiogenic agents Cox 2 inhibitors all of which are administered systemically i.e. with no geographic advantage in terms of tumor vs. normal tissues. In contrast the present invention provides radiation enhancement to tumor and sparing of normal tissues by both mechanisms of oxygenation and geographic aim. Through this combination it is envisioned that a therapeutic dose can be delivered in a matter of 1 hr without the need to move the patient.

3. Focused ultrasound array configuration planning is generated by medical physicist dosimetrist based on the radiation dosimetry plan with the goal of sparing in field normal tissue and oxygenating the central necrotic mass of the tumor volume.

5. Radiation generating machine is moved to the correct configuration for each field to be delivered.

6. Focused ultrasound configuration is moved to the corresponding position for sparing normal tissue traversed by the given radiation beam focal ultrasound directed at the tumor may or may not need to be moved depending on if the instrumentation is in the path of the radiation beam.

7. Oxy and deoxy hemoglobin levels can optionally be monitored by the optical spectroscopy technique as disclosed below with regard to the third variation.

8. Focal ultrasound is switched on to achieve depletion of normal tissue oxygenation radiation beam is switched on.

9. Radiation beam is switched off focal ultrasound is switched on to oxygenate the tumor mass allow sufficient time for oxygenation of tumor mass.

11. Radiation generating machine is configured for the next beam repeat steps 6 10 above until all beams are delivered to the full dose.

The third variation involves diagnosis monitoring of therapeutic effectiveness and treatment follow up of cancers of the breast and other soft tissues. We have designed a scanhead capable of delivering focused acoustic stationary fields up to 4 cm deep in the tissue. The two 1 MHz focused transducers are aligned in a single plane at 90 degrees. The focal zone is approximately 1 cm in diameter and with a 5 second exposure can be shown to successfully stop blood flow. The field intensity is within the FDA diagnostic limit and generates less than 1 C local temperature increase.

The scanhead also incorporated a fiber array. The fiber array is connected to a dual wavelength diode light source 680 and 830 nm other wavelengths are also possible which is split into 9 fibers placed on the surface of the tissue with the scanhead. The collection fibers are combined into a single fiber which terminates at a room temperature spectroscope. The collection fibers can be separated and the sources intensity modulated for diffuse optical imaging.

The final component of the scanhead is a commercial ultrasound probe. The ultrasound probe is located in the same plane as the focused transducers and is used for image coregistration with the near infrared spectroscopy information tissue density information and blood flow information.

The scanhead is designed to be gently placed upon the surface of the skin above the tumor or questionable tissue. This information is gathered with a pre scan ultrasound or mammogram. After the scanhead is placed on the surface of the skin the optical data collection is begun. From this point to the conclusion of the exam the scanhead is not moved. Any motion of the tissue or the scanhead will destroy image correlation.

In order to minimize motion of the scanhead the ultrasound probe and focused transducers are given two degrees of freedom DOF within the scanhead in order for the focal zone to be positioned at various depths and lateral locations with respect to the tumor. This will generate a two dimensional map of the tissue surrounding and including the questionable tissue sample.

To use this system for diagnosis monitoring of disease progression or remission the following steps are envisioned 

2. Use diagnostic ultrasound probe to verify alignment of focal center move assembly axially away from or near patient s skin if necessary so as to aim at desired depth in vivo.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention will be set forth in detail with reference to the drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like elements or steps throughout.

Ultrasound was generated by a 1 MHz piezoelectric ceramic crystal Channel Industries mounted behind a concave aluminum lens with a focal length of 7 cm. At 1 MHz the 6 dB focal zone diameter was 2 mm and the focal zone length was 30 mm. The ultrasound signal was created by a function generator Agilent 33250A and amplified by an RF amplifier Amplifier Research 25A250A monitored and recorded by an oscilloscope Tektronix TDS 2022 . The ultrasonic field was measured and characterized using a hydrophone Onda Co. HNR 500 . The intensity of the ultrasound was maintained at Spatial Peak Temporal Average Intensity SPTA 0.7 mW cm averaged over the burst cycle.

Initial tests of the ultrasound setup included a repeat of Dyson s seminal experiment M. Dyson et al The flow of red blood cells stopped by ultrasound Vol. 232 pp. 572 573 1971 but with lower acoustic intensities SPTA 0.7 mW cm and lower frequencies f 1 MHz . The ultrasound was observed visually to stop blood flow causing bands to form for short periods of time. In order to perform a non invasive test regarding the efficacy of the ultrasound in the mouse leg a laser Doppler system Transonic BLF21 was used to verify blood flow alterations or stasis due to ultrasound. This technique relies on the interference between an LED signal beam and the reflected beam revealing the velocity profiles of the reflecting objects visualized as sidebands to the original beam From the laser Doppler measurements it is clear that in a small target volume the average velocity of the blood is at least slowing. When this same volume element is inspected with white light there are measurable changes in the oxyhemoglobin saturation.

All experiments were conducted in a Plexiglas water tank . Distilled water was autoclaved for 45 minutes to remove ions and micro bubbles in order to prevent cavitation and scattering of the acoustic field. A 2.5 cm thick piece of aluminum was used for the acoustic reflector and a 2.5 cm thick rubber block was placed behind the aluminum to absorb any scattered acoustic energy. During experiments the water was heated to 37 C. using a circulating water heater and the rubber block was positioned to shield the data collection area from most of the water currents since moving water can interfere with spectroscopy measurements.

Diffuse reflectance spectra were collected with a single 600 micron fiber numerical aperture N.A. 0.22 residing at the center of a seven fiber probe Ocean Optics R600 7 VIS NIR . The center collection fiber was connected to a 2048 pixel room temperature spectrometer Ocean Optics USB 2000 VIS NIR fitted with a grating for spectrum analysis between 200 nm and 1100 nm. The outer six fibers were connected to a broadband halogen light source Ocean Optics HL 2000 . The source detector separation was 1 mm resulting in an inspection volume of 9 mm mostly within 1 mm of the tissue surface. The optical signal was weighted by the intensity curve of the light source. The intensity curvature was measured with a diffuse reflectance standard.

Six eight week old C3H mice were inoculated intramuscularly to the right thigh with 10MCa 35 mammary carcinoma cells with the left hind leg used as control for the diagnostic portion of this experiment. To avoid scattering of the acoustic field hair was removed from the hind legs using a depilatory agent Nair one day prior to the experiment. The mice were sedated using a Ketamine 60 mg kg Xylazine 4 mg kg mixture injected intraperitoneally and placed in a Plexiglas restraint which positioned the leg to be examined away from the body. The probe was then fixed on the skin of the mouse leg using a positioning arm ensuring contact but without skin compression. During data collection the probe was held stationary maintaining a constant pressure on the mouse skin. Optical spectroscopy measurements of hemoglobin in vivo are greatly dependent upon surface pressure since any changes will alter the blood volume alterations and consequently hemoglobin volumes. Once a baseline spectrum was achieved 4 minutes the mouse probe were moved such that the focus of the ultrasound was 2 mm directly under the location of the optical probe. The direction of propagation of the ultrasound and light were kept orthogonal so that the metallic probe did not enter the focus of the ultrasound and obstruct or scatter the standing acoustic wave. Also this increased the probability of intersecting the acoustic focal region with the volume of optical inspection.

During each experiment ultrasound was administered in 5 second bursts with 55 second relaxation periods between bursts and a total of six bursts per leg per experimental collection. For each mouse both legs one with a tumor diameter 10 mm and one without were subjected to ultrasound and optical spectroscopy to compare the effects in tumor versus nontumor tissue. The order of inspection of the legs was altered to diminish the possibility that the results were influenced by the depth of the anesthesia which can directly affect the blood velocity.

Ultrasound pulse information for each experiment was monitored and collected with the oscilloscope and stored for later signal correlation studies Optical spectra were collected with the supplied Ocean Optics software at 500 ms intervals in order to decrease the Signal to Noise Ratio SNR and to reduce the appearance of unwanted higher frequency signals and noise.

The raw optical spectra were corrected for the curvature of the light source intensity. The intensity curve of the light source was obtained using a diffuse reflectance standard. The optical signal then was cropped to avoid the spectral regions of low light 

By visual comparison of I Iwith the ultrasound signal one can generally establish visual temporal correlation between these two signals in the non tumor scans and the absence of correlation in the tumor scans. show respectively the ratio I Isignal with the trend modulated ultrasound pulse signal superimposed for a typical nontumor tissue and tumor tissue. Notice the much larger ultrasound induced contrast in the nontumor signal. The drops in the I Iratio signal have been consistently observed in nontumor scans and are mostly absent in tumor scans. It has been demonstrated since that the mathematical correlation between the ratio signal and the ultrasound signal in general is significantly higher in nontumor cases than in tumor cases. As shown in the I Isignal in nontumor tissue is better correlated to the ultrasound than the same signal for tumor tissue measured for the same mouse to compensate for differences in mice population.

As predicted from prior studies the presence of the standing wave ultrasound caused changes in the blood flow and consequently changes in the hemoglobin concentrations. These changes in the hemoglobin concentration affected optical absorption and the experimental spectroscopic measurements demonstrated this phenomenon. In the top curve represents the laser Doppler average volume velocity while the bottom curve represents the ultrasound bursts.

These changes in oxy deoxyhemoglobin concentration are believed to be caused by metabolic consumption of oxygen. The rate of metabolic consumption varies from mouse to mouse and from tumor to nontumor tissue types. It is generally believed that tumor cells have higher metabolic rates and therefore consume more oxygen in relation to nontumor tissue. This alone would lead one to expect that oxyhemoglobin concentrations would drop faster and more emphatically in tumor tissue than in nontumor tissue. In general such drops were not observed in our experiment although in some instances tumor tissue did exhibit oxyhemoglobin drops when the optical probe was located in close proximity to visible large surface vessels. In these cases higher initial oxyhemoglobin concentrations were also observed and the ultrasound induced contrast was visible in the measured ratio signal. When the probe was carefully moved to a location distant 1 2 mm from the visible vessel the initial oxyhemoglobin concentration dropped and the contrast was much less pronounced. The ultrasound induced contrast was much less dependent upon location in the nontumor leg.

Initial tumor and nontumor tissue oxyhemoglobin concentrations varied from mouse to mouse probably due to the depth of the anesthesia. Some mice with higher initial oxyhemoglobin concentrations demonstrated ultrasound induced contrast in the tumor tissue. This contrast however was generally less substantial than the contrast observed in the nontumor tissue of the same mouse. Comparison of the ultrasound induced contrast of each leg to the other leg of the same mouse was a technique used to reduce the mouse to mouse variance of oxyhemoglobin saturation. There are significant differences in the diffuse reflectance spectra gathered from different mice and from various locations of a single tumor in each mouse.

For each mouse the difference in ultrasound induced oxyhemoglobin concentration changes between tumor and nontumor tissue could result from differences in blood vessel counts and vessel orientation within the tissue as well as differences in the metabolic rates of each tissue. The MCa 35 tumor is a highly vascularized well perfused metastatic model and develops an extremely chaotic mesh of blood vessels it is generally well oxygenated when compared to other tumor species models. When these tumors were analyzed with laser Doppler the ultrasound appeared to have little effect on the blood flow possibly due to the multidirectional and interwoven mesh of blood vessels which lack the orderly flow of skeletal vessels. In addition the tumors generally had lower initial oxyhemoglobin saturations than the nontumor tissue of the other leg. Alternative tumor models with lower oxygenation fewer vessels and decreased blood flow ultrasound.

In general the ultrasound induced contrast was much more pronounced when initial hemoglobin concentrations were elevated. This elevation could be due to inflammation of the skin abrasion higher vessel counts large vessels in close proximity to the probe less pressure exerted by the probe on the skin etc. Although experimental procedures attempted to decrease the effects of inflammation abrasion and probe force on the skin it was unclear which factor predominated in producing the varying spectral responses between mice. Additional studies are needed to further investigate these factors.

Decreases in the observed I Iratios were predictable generally corresponding to the ultrasound bursts but not always easily observable. shows the I Iratio signal for non tumor signal with the trend modulated ultrasound pulse superimposed. The ultrasound induced drops are difficult to distinguish. In some experiments it was hard to distinguish between responses of tumor and nontumor tissue. If the probe was positioned in the proximity of a major blood vessel in the tumor the observed signal behaved in a manner similar to the nontumor cases i.e. substantial decreases in the signal were correlated to the ultrasound bursts . Also the relatively small size of the tumors made experiments sensitive to the probe positioning with respect to the surface vessels and the position of the ultrasound operator skill was a critical factor in experiment success.

In summary the current study demonstrated that there are substantial and predictable ultrasound induced changes in the I Iratio signal obtained through in vivo spectroscopic measurements of diffuse light reflected from tumor and nontumor mouse tissue. The ratio signal is better correlated to the ultrasound signal for nontumor tissue than tumor tissue and appears highly promising for noninvasive tissue diagnostics.

By visual inspection of I Iand its comparison with the ultrasound signal one can establish a visual temporal correlation between the two in the non tumor scans and the absence of such a correlation in the tumor scans. As shown in the ultrasound signal in non tumorous tissue causes more prominent dips in the observed I Isignal than in the tumorous tissue. The measurements were not always so obvious. Our first experiment was designed to demonstrate that it was possible to establish the mathematical correlation between the I Iratio and the ultrasound signal. The second experiment was aimed at the creation of a novel diagnostic algorithm based on a single experimental observation.

In the first experiment visual correlation between the I Iratio and ultrasound bursts was visually evident in most cases. The bursts of ultrasound caused pronounced drops in the observed I Isignals. In this experiment we quantified that correlation and demonstrated that it is significantly different between probe readings of tumor and non tumor tissue responses. The algorithm we used in this experiment was as follows 

2. The general slope i.e. trend of the I Isignal was approximated using 2 degree polynomial interpolation and the BUS I has been scaled down and adjusted to the signal trend AUS trend BUS 20 2 

3. To characterize the I Ivs. US correlation we used cross covariance of I Iand AUS. In statistics cross covariance assesses the degree to which two variables co vary or vary together. It is computed as the mean of the products of the mean deviations for each variable in the observed set. Thus the cross covariance between recorded I Isignal R and adjusted AUS ultrasound signal was calculated as cross correlation function of two sequences with their means removed Cov conj AUS MAUS 3 

where MR and MAUS stand for the means of R and AUS respectively E stands for the Mathematical Expectation conj is the complex conjugate operator and m and n are position indices in the signal.

4. The XCov signal was smoothed using the Savitzky Golay polynomial FIR smoothing filter with the polynomial order and window size 41.

6. Standard deviations were calculated for measurements taken on both tumor and non tumor hind legs and the ratio of the measurements Std Cov Std Cov 4 

Results of this experiment arc presented in . The ratio of the standard deviations 4 was greater than 1 one in all but one experiment and greater than 2 two in 75 of measured mice. The I Isignal in non tumorous tissue is better correlated to the ultrasound than the same signal for tumorous tissue measured for the same mouse to compensate for physiological differences in mice population.

For the second experiment upon confirmation that there was a correlation between ultrasound bursts and observed changes dips in the observed signal we constructed a novel diagnostic algorithm that utilized that information.

2. Locations of the centers of each ultrasound burst were found and used to split I Ito non overlapping windows bounded by those centers. The end of observation at the right side bounded the rightmost window. shows a boxed ultrasound signal BUS observation windows and a comb signal to be described below with spikes at the positions of local minima calculated for each window .

3. The general slope i.e. trend of the I Isignal was approximated using 2 degree polynomial interpolation and the difference between trend and I Iwas calculated.

4. The positions of the local minima of the difference function calculated for each window were calculated.

5. The new comb signal with ones at the position of local minimums and zeros elsewhere was constructed .

The experiment was repeated for varying values of the decision threshold and a Receiver Operating Characteristics ROC curve was calculated. The algorithm achieved the best results with the decision threshold set to dt 0.40 specificity was 83.3 and sensitivity was 79.2 . Complete results of this experiment are presented in Table I and which shows the ROC curve for the diagnostic algorithm. The decision threshold varied from 0.1 to 1 in 0.05 steps. The area under the curve is 0.90.

The experiment tested is presented in . In the screen shot of trend adjusted ultrasound AUS is superimposed over the I Isignal. Dashed lines denote positions of local minima.

Results of the first experiment revealed evident differences between tumor and non tumor measurements and demonstrated that optical spectroscopy measurements of acoustically induced blood stasis could be used to differentiate between tumor and non tumor tissues in vivo. Variations in the experimental results from mouse to mouse were most likely related to variations in the experimental conditions mouse movements probe pressure probe positioning etc. .

The second experiment demonstrated that it is possible to quantitatively differentiate tumor from non tumor based on a single non invasive measurement. In this experiment we first established the experimental procedure constructed the decision making algorithm and then varied the value of the decision threshold in search of an optimum the point on the curve closest to the 0 1 coordinates . It was found that for the decision threshold values of 0.40 and 0.45 the algorithm reached a specificity of 0.83 and a sensitivity of 0.79. As a measure of the algorithm accuracy the initial assessment of the area under the ROC curve by this experiment was 0.90 meaning that the constructed algorithm is indeed a very good classifier .

It is not necessary to apply principal component analysis PCA to construct the diagnostic discriminator. The reason is that the observed phenomenon of ultrasound contrast on blood vessels in normal tissue is much more pronounced than originally inferred from the literature. The simpler cross covariance between the ultrasound pulse signal and the ratio of NIR signals at 560 vs. 540 nm I I is sufficient to discriminate between malignant and normal tissue.

An intriguing finding throughout the experimental study is that the acoustic effect on blood vessels and tissue hemoglobin concentrations are very pronounced in the normal non tumor leg and almost completely absent in the tumor leg of the same mouse except when the NIR probe was placed directly above a major blood vessel on the tumor side. Immunohistochemistry analysis performed on the tumor and non tumor frozen sections approximately through the plane of the corresponding NIR measurement intersecting the ultrasound standing wave showed that the non tumor side consisted of a regular network of blood vessels with spacing and directional regularity whereas the tumor side consisted of a more sporadic network of vessel spacing and directionality. show the result of that analysis. shows the CD31 staining for the tumor all vessels . shows the corresponding DiOCperfusion stain perfused vessels . shows the CD31 staining for contralateral normal tissue. shows the corresponding DiOC. All images are at the same magnification.

The experimental finding that the sono contrast is much more pronounced in non tumor than tumor tissue indicates that the effect on blood flow and stasis by acoustic pressure is primarily a phenomenon of normal vessel network morphology and not malignant angiogenic growth. We have constructed a theoretical hemodynamic model to fit the observed data for each animal. The sono contrast NIR technique achieves diagnostic power through detection of vessel regularity and temporal hemoglobin content change. The existence of sporadic angiogenic network and or vessel leakiness drastically reduces the expected sono contrast. In the case of irregular angiogenic growth an acoustic standing wave will not cause the expected temporary stasis.

The above mentioned difference in sono contrast response between tumor and non tumor was used as a diagnostic discriminator in the cross covariance analysis of the I Iratio. To test the diagnostic power of the algorithm a decision threshold was defined to demarcate the point between normal vs. malignant findings. When this decision threshold was varied and the algorithm re run for the test population of 25 mice 50 data sets an ROC curve was generated . The area under the curve AUC was found to be 0.90. The standard deviation of the AUC was calculated using the standard bootstrap method by randomly selecting sub sets of 90 the test population with replacement. Averaged over 5 runs the AUC was found to be 0.91 0.01.

One unforeseen difficulty originating from our proposed experimental method is that immunohistochemistry analysis could not be pr cised performed at the location containing the sono contrast NIR measurement This is because the latter is noninvasive prior to animal sacrifice and freezing of the samples whereas the former relies on slicing through a skin mark at an approximate orientation containing the noninvasive measurement. There is no one to one correspondence therefore a linear correlation of the sono contrast NIR data and immunohistochemistry data would not be a rigorous description of the relationship. Instead we have chosen to perform regression analysis using each of a set of immunohistochemistry parameters as dependent variable and a set of sono contrast NIR parameters as independent variables. The complete sets of parameters are shown in Table II 

Results of the regression analysis are shown in Table III. It can be seen that there exist strong predictive relationships between three solo contrast NIR measurement parameters namely a the magnitude of change in I I b the standard deviation of I I and c the baseline change before and after ultrasound pulse insonification with certain immunohistochemistry parameters namely percent area of perfused vessels total number of vessels mean distance between vessels both total and perfused and standard deviation of the vessel distribution. Among these a and b together are predictive of the total number of vessels at p

This part of the analysis clearly demonstrates that the magnitude of sono contrast in the NIR spectrum and its variability are strongly predictive of vascular morphology and tissue perfusion.

Another intriguing observation not discussed in our reports is that some tissues respond to periodic. repeat insonification by a baseline gradual increase of I I which is an indicator of tissue oxygenation whereas other tissues do not show this response e.g. compare with . The baseline change or non change labeled as trend diff in Table II is irrespective of tumor or normal tissue.

A side view of the prostate embodiment in use is shown in . shows the fiber design and shows the ultrasound probe. As shown in the system comprises an ultrasound probe and an optical fiber spectroscopy probe . the ultrasound probe is inserted into the patient s rectal cavity R to emit ultrasound through the prostate P to the abdominal wall A. The optical fiber probe is inserted into the urethra U.

As shown in the optical spectroscopy probe includes six collection fibers cut on a 45 inclination surrounding an illumination fiber . The probe has a metal tip and a convex lens to define optical paths between the fibers and the outside through a transparent soft tip thereby defining illumination zones and collection zones .

The optical spectroscopy probe is inserted through the urethra until the transparent soft tip is located at the center of the prostate. The optical probe continuously samples the entire volume of the prostate using a single illumination fiber located at the center of six collection fibers. After exiting the source fiber the light will be diffused into the tissue after reflection off of a convex lens. The collection fibers will be cut at a 45 angle to allow for the sampling of light passing through the transparent sides of the optical probe. All six of these fibers will be attached to a TE cooled spectrometer and samples will be collected at 50 ms intervals 20 Hz .

The dual transducer ultrasound probe is inserted into the rectal cavity. As shown in the ultrasound probe includes dual pencil beam transducers produce a stationary acoustic wave only in the region of overlap . The transducers will create beams with diameters of 1 cm creating a volume of overlap of 3 cm. This overlap volume can be swept over the entire volume of the prostate by rotating the transducers independently to provide a total ultrasound coverage area this will create the localized acoustic contrast for image construction.

Another area to which the present invention can be applied is localized drug delivery. The standing wave ultrasound causes reversible blood stasis in a localized area. The present invention can be used to arrest the blood flow with drugs present and to expose them to an optical stimulation signal. The effects of the drug can be minimized to the area of blood flow stasis. This can also be accomplished with normal non photosensitive drugs.

In the first variation two ultrasonic transducers are driven by an external amplifier capable of therapeutic power delivery with the ultrasonic beams intersecting at an angle such as 90 degrees which in turn defines the region of HIFU. This region is first visualized by such means as a diagnostic ultrasound probe positioned through the central axis and its tissue characteristics may be interrogated via optical spectroscopy. A well circumscribed mass can be ablated in the breast or another suitable part of the body. Those skilled in the art who have reviewed the present disclosure will readily appreciate that any of the systems disclosed herein or any other suitable system can be used to implement the first variation.

Using the present invention it is possible to re oxygenate the tumor volume prior to during or immediately after a period of radiation delivery via such mechanisms as reactive hyperemia from focused ultrasound as demonstrated in our previous disclosure. For example focused ultrasound can be directed at the tumor cavity when the patient is positioned for treatment of breast cancer using modern computer controlled linear accelerator. After a pre determined dose is delivered the radiation is switched off and the ultrasound pulse is activated briefly to manipulate blood flow in the region in a fashion to accelerate re oxygenation thus shortening the requirement for fractionation from one fraction per day to approximately 50 sec. per fraction. This is the principle on which a new era of radiation treatment of cancers via rapid fractionation is based. Those skilled in the art who have reviewed the present disclosure will readily appreciate that any of the systems disclosed herein or any other suitable system can be used to implement the second variation.

For the third variation the inventors have designed a scanhead capable of delivering focused acoustic stationary fields up to 4 cm deep in the tissue. The two 1 MHz focused transducers are aligned in a single plane at 90 degrees. The focal zone is approximately 1 cm in diameter and with a 5 second exposure can be shown to successfully stop blood flow. The field intensity is within the FDA diagnostic limit and generates less than 1 C local temperature increase.

The scanhead also incorporated a fiber array see for an example array . The fiber array is connected to a dual wavelength diode light source 680 and 830 nm other wavelengths are also possible which is split into 9 fibers placed on the surface of the tissue with the scanhead. The collection fibers are combined into a single fiber which terminates at a room temperature spectroscope. The collection fibers can be separated and the sources intensity modulated for diffuse optical imaging.

The final component of the scanhead is a commercial ultrasound probe. The ultrasound probe is located in the same plane as the focused transducers and is used for image coregistration with the near infrared spectroscopy information tissue density information and blood flow information.

The scanhead is designed to be gently placed upon the surface of the skin above the tumor or questionable tissue. This information is gathered with a pre scan ultrasound or mammogram. After the scanhead is placed on the surface of the skin the optical data collection is begun. From this point to the conclusion of the exam the scanhead is not moved. Any motion of the tissue or the scanhead will destroy image correlation.

In order to minimize motion of the scanhead the ultrasound probe and focused transducers are given two degrees of freedom DOF within the scanhead in order for the focal zone to be positioned at various depths and lateral locations with respect to the tumor. This will generate a two dimensional map of the tissue surrounding and including the questionable tissue sample.

To use this system for diagnosis monitoring of disease progression or remission the following steps are envisioned 

2. Use diagnostic ultrasound probe to verify alignment of focal center move assembly axially away from or near patient s skin if necessary so as to aim at desired depth in vivo.

The delivery mechanism of is capable of positioning the scanhead at any angle depth and height. We employ a 360 degree ring assembly to rotate the scanhead around the breast. The delivery mechanism can translate the scanhead along a radial path to place the scanhead on the surface of the skin with only minor compression. Additionally the mechanism can position the entire radial and angular elements along the lateral dimension of the breast.

Experimental results from the ablation variation will now be described. Plots of those experimental results are given in . The current dual transducer model was tested using a soft PVC tissue phantom with similar acoustic properties to tissue and harvested turkey breast tissue sample. Both models exhibited extreme tissue heating in a localized region at the overlap of the focal zones of the two transducers. show the heating observed with a thermistor in the PVC tissue phantom when placed at the focal zone overlap during sonication from two transducers each driven by 12 W. shows a temperature curve for two bursts starting at and of ultrasound generated by two transducers in a PVC tissue phantom in a small 

For both experiments the amplifier was operated at full power and the output was split between the two transducers. The input signal was 1.132 MHz. The two transducers were placed at approximated 90 deg. relative to each other and the focal zones were overlapped.

For the test whose results are shown in the thermistor was moved close to the focal zone and the temperature can be observed to increase.

For the test whose results are shown in the thermistor again was moved close to probably into the focal zone of the two transducers. The result is the first rise in temperature maximum was 57.7 C. . The ultrasound was turned off and the drop is quite sudden followed by an exponential decrease. When the temperature reached 35 C. the ultrasound was turned on again resulting in the second temperature rise. The ultrasound was turned off and a similar exponential decrease was observed. There is a sharp dip in the second temperature rise which is probably due to vibration and displacement of the thermistor. Due to the small size and somewhat unknown location of the focal zone overlaps of the two transducers the thermistor was difficult to place in the region.

Additional experimental verification using low input power is given in and A E. shows a plot of temperature versus time in a sample which is a turkey breast in water. For the turkey breast samples were tested in two configurations imbedded in the PVC tissue phantom and submerged in a warm 37 C water bath .

For the PVC imbedded samples each transducer was driven at about 12 W a reduction of between 2 30 times the intensity used in previous works. shows the heating observed in the turkey breast sample imbedded in the PVC tissue phantom and exposed to a four minute burst of low power acoustic fields. The oscillations are due to thermal fluctuations with the environment.

In the water bath tests a reflector acted as the second transducer and the driving power of the single transducer was about 22 W or 1.5 20 times less power than that used in previous studies. shows the heating observed in the turkey breast sample submerged in the warm water bath. The ultrasound burst time length is one minute and the maximum temperature is 67 C. The transducer was driven by a 22 W signal with a reflector providing the second acoustic field.

As a comparison to a single transducer system experiments were conducted on the submerged turkey breast sample with an aluminum reflector and without a reflector but with a rubber absorber. demonstrates the difference in maximum attainable temperature for the two scenarios. The turkey breast tissue sample was heated by two ultrasound bursts 1 without a reflector and 2 with a reflector in place. The maximum temperature difference is about 5 C The maximum temperature is not largely different but the total deposited heat energy and tequivalent are significantly different. With a reflector secondary acoustic source the total deposited heat energy and tequivalent were more than double those quantities achieved without a reflector in place. This outcome is due to the temperature rising much faster and the higher maximum temperature.

The present system has been demonstrated to heat both PVC tissue phantoms and turkey breast tissue sample to sustainable temperatures capable of tissue ablation. The dual transducer setup has been shown to generate a high intensity acoustic field and high temperatures in a very small volume using intensities much lower than previously published works. The lower intensities greatly reduce the risk of surface burning and tissue damage outside of the focal region. The dual transducer setup has been shown to produce a very small and geometrically predicable high intensity zone where temperatures rise up to 40 C from the ambient temperature but only in a small volume.

While a preferred embodiment has been set forth in detail those skilled in the art who have reviewed the present disclosure will readily appreciate that other embodiments can be realized within the scope of the invention. For example numerical values are illustrative rather than limiting as are modalities of diagnosis and treatment. Therefore the present invention should be construed as limited only by the appended claims.

