---

title: Process for the production of hydrogen from water
abstract: A method and device for the production of hydrogen from water and electricity using an active metal alloy. The active metal alloy reacts with water producing hydrogen and a metal hydroxide. The metal hydroxide is consumed, restoring the active metal alloy, by applying a voltage between the active metal alloy and the metal hydroxide. As the process is sustainable, only water and electricity is required to sustain the reaction generating hydrogen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07722757&OS=07722757&RS=07722757
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07722757
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and the University of Chicago.

The efficient production of hydrogen is not only critical to a number of industrial processes but plays a key part in creating a clean and efficient hydrogen economy. The idea of a fuel cell able to convert hydrogen into water and electricity has been around for over a century. The fuel cell however has been ineffective as a viable commercial power source because of inefficiencies in the production of hydrogen. Hydrogen can be produced by many different methods. Common methods of producing hydrogen are steam reformation SR highly reactive metals reactive metals electrolysis and high temperature electrolysis HTE .

Steam reformation SR is believed to be the most economical and commercially viable process that is presently available. At high temperatures 700 1100 C. and in the presence of a metal based catalyst steam reacts with a hydrocarbon such as methane to yield carbon monoxide and hydrogen. For most hydrocarbons including methane temperatures in excess of 700 C. are necessary. Carbon monoxide produced in the SR reaction is poisonous to most fuel cells. The carbon monoxide may be processed in a water gas shift reaction WGS an organic reaction which combines carbon monoxide with steam to produce hydrogen. Unfortunately the WGS does not consume all the carbon monoxide requiring the fuel cell to be periodically cleaned. The carbon monoxide can also be partially removed by scrubbing or pressure swing adsorption both of which are costly.

Highly reactive metals may also be used to produce hydrogen from water. Examples of such metals include lithium Li sodium Na potassium K rubidium Rb cesium Cs francium Fr beryllium Be magnesium Mg calcium Ca strontium Sr barium Ba radium Ra aluminum Al silicon Si phosphorus P titanium Ti vanadium V chromium Cr manganese Mn yttrium Y zirconium Zr niobium Nb lanthanum La hafnium Hf tantalum Ta and gallium Ga . These metals oxidize in the presence of water creating hydrogen. Unfortunately they cannot be efficiently reduced back to the original metal.

Reactive metals have a reactivity less than the highly reactive metals but are much more capable of being reduced back to the original metal once oxidized. Examples of reactive metals include germanium Ge iron Fe zinc Zn tungsten W molybdenum Mo indium In tin Sn cobalt Co and antimony Sb . The reduction oxidation of iron was used as the primary industrial method for manufacturing hydrogen during the 19and early 20centuries. At elevated temperatures iron strips oxygen from water leaving pure hydrogen. Excess water is required to maximize hydrogen production from a given amount of iron. After the hydrogen is produced excess water is condensed leaving an uncontaminated hydrogen gas steam. The steam reduction iron oxidation process produces hydrogen and wustite FeO and or magnetite FeO . To regenerate the iron metal carbon monoxide or carbon is used to capture the oxygen from the iron oxide forming iron metal and carbon monoxide CO or carbon dioxide CO . Another method of reducing the iron oxide is smelting the iron oxide which requires high temperature due to the high melting point of iron 1538 C. . Unfortunately both these methods are inefficient and kinetically difficult.

Electrolysis is a simple way of producing hydrogen. In electrolysis an electrical current is applied between a pair of inert electrodes immersed in water. The amount of electrical energy that must be used equals the change in Gibbs free energy of the reaction plus the losses in the system. The losses can theoretically be arbitrarily close to zero so the maximum thermodynamic efficiency equals the Gibbs free energy change of the reaction divided by the enthalpy change.

High temperature electrolysis HTE may also be used to produce hydrogen at as high as twice the efficiently of simple room temperature electrolysis. HTE is more efficient than simple room temperature electrolysis because some of the energy is supplied as heat which is cheaper than electricity and because the electrolysis reaction is more efficient at higher temperatures. In fact at 2500 C. an electrical current is unnecessary because water breaks down to hydrogen and oxygen through thermolysis. However such temperatures are impractical. Proposed HTE systems operate at 100 to 850 C. HTE has been demonstrated in a laboratory but not on a commercial scale. Unfortunately a significant amount of energy is lost in HTE electrolysis from the high pressures the water must be exposed to in order to maintain it as a liquid.

Therefore there exists a need for a more efficient method of producing hydrogen. An object of the following invention is for a continuous self renewing method of producing hydrogen requiring only a supply of steam and electricity once started. A further object of the following invention is a method of producing hydrogen at temperatures above the boiling point of water without having to maintain the reaction at higher pressures. Still yet another object of the following invention is a method of producing hydrogen with about a 30 increase in efficiency over HTE.

A method and device for the production of hydrogen from water and electricity using an active metal alloy. An active metal alloy layer is formed at the base of a container and continuously exposed to steam producing a metal hydroxide layer above the active metal alloy layer and hydrogen. At the same time a voltage is continuously applied between the metal hydroxide layer and the active metal alloy layer causing a reaction consuming the metal hydroxide layer and restoring the active metal alloy layer while also producing more hydrogen. The hydrogen produced from the active metal alloy layer and the metal hydroxide layer is collected.

A method and device for the production of hydrogen through the employment of water and electricity using an active metal alloy. A liquid active metal alloy is placed in the base of a container forming an active metal alloy layer. The active metal alloy layer is continuously exposed to steam creating a metal hydroxide and hydrogen. The metal hydroxide being less dense than and immiscible with the active metal alloy forms a metal hydroxide layer within the container and above the active metal alloy layer. A voltage is continuously applied to electrodes located in the metal hydroxide layer and the active metal alloy layer causing a reaction consuming the metal hydroxide layer and producing the active metal alloy oxygen and additional hydrogen. The active metal alloy replenishes the active metal alloy layer and the hydrogen is collected by a trapping means.

A voltage source supplies a voltage across the metal hydroxide layer and the active metal alloy layer via a first electrode and a second electrode respectively. The second electrode has an insulator electrically insulating the second electrode from the metal hydroxide layer .

Additional hydrogen is generated from a second electrochemical reaction KOH Bi K Bi H O Reaction 2 at the active metal alloy layer and the metal hydroxide layer interface. A voltage is supplied to the active metal alloy layer via the second electrode which is submersed through the metal hydroxide layer in the active metal alloy layer . Oxygen is generated from the second reaction at the end of the first electrode which is submersed in the metal hydroxide layer . In the preferred embodiment oxygen produced at the first electrode is preferably captured and sequestered by a shroud over the first electrode . Hydrogen produced at the interface of the active metal alloy layer and the metal hydroxide layer is preferably captured by a closed vessel over the container . Some steam will not react with the active metal alloy layer and will ascend with the hydrogen preferably into the closed vessel . In the preferred embodiment the hydrogen and steam captured by the closed vessel is processed to separate the steam and the hydrogen. Likewise un reacted steam will ascend into the anode shroud and accompany the evolved oxygen.

The container has a shape whereby the active metal alloy layer and the metal hydroxide layer are contained within the container . The container is made of a material which does not dissolve and is resistant to heat from the active metal alloy layer metal hydroxide layer steam from the steam source and combinations thereof. In the preferred embodiment the container is a cylindrical closed end tube made of iron having an open top although any shape may be used. In the preferred embodiment the entire container or the inside walls of the container contacted by the metal hydroxide layer is electrically insulating. Insulating the container prevents the electrochemical reduction of the active metal in the active metal alloy layer from occurring away from the interface of the active metal alloy layer and the metal hydroxide layer .

The active metal alloy layer contains a combination of an active metal and a diluent. The active metal is a metal that is reactive to water. The diluent is an inert unreactive liquid or solvent. The active metal is preferably sodium Na potassium K lithium Li cesium Cs calcium Ca or combinations thereof. The diluent is preferably bismuth Bi lead Pb tin Sn tellerium Te or combinations thereof. The active metal alloy layer is maintained at a temperature whereby the active metal alloy layer is a liquid. As a liquid more of the active metal in the active metal alloy layer will be able to more readily react with steam. In the preferred embodiment K an active metal is mixed with molten Bi a diluent producing Bi dissolved in K and possibly a small amount of KBi solids . The K Bi and KBi each react with the steam producing metal hydroxide. Preferably the Bi and K are mixed at about 700 K Kelvin which is above the melting point of KOH and above the liquidus of K 15 mol Bi 85 mol solution. Preferably the surface of the metal hydroxide layer is exposed to a pressure less than about 10 ATM atmospheres more preferably the surface of the metal hydroxide layer is at about atmospheric pressure.

The steam source produces HO steam which is distributed to the active metal alloy layer . Preferably the steam is distributed via a graphite or metal pipe more preferably an iron or low chromium moly steel pipe. In the preferred embodiment the steam is distributed via a bent pipe . The bent pipe is preferably electrically insulated from the metal hydroxide layer . Other distribution means known in the art may also be used such as a perforated pipe running along the bottom of the container or perforations in the container allowing steam to pass through the container from an outside source. The active metal alloy layer reacts with the steam raising the temperature exothermic reaction and creating hydrogen and a metal hydroxide which replenishes the metal hydroxide layer . The steam is at a temperature which keeps the active metal alloy layer as a liquid. Preferably the steam is at the same temperature as the active metal alloy layer . When the preferred K Bi active metal alloy is used the steam is preferably at a temperature of about 700 900 K to keep the K Bi in liquid form.

The metal hydroxide layer is a layer having a metal hydroxide produced from the reaction of the active metal alloy layer and steam from the steam source . In the preferred embodiment the metal hydroxide layer is liquid KOH.

The voltage source is capable of continuously producing a voltage. The voltage source is electrically connected to the first electrode preferably by a first connector . The first electrode is submersed in the metal hydroxide layer completing the electrical connection between the voltage source and the metal hydroxide layer . Likewise the voltage source is electrically connected to the second electrode preferably by a second connector . The second electrode is submersed in the active metal alloy layer completing the electrical connection between the voltage source and the active metal alloy layer . In the preferred embodiment the second electrode is electrically isolated from the metal hydroxide layer by the insulator .

The first electrode is made of an electrically conductive material and electrically connects the voltage source to the metal hydroxide layer . The first electrode is made of a material capable of withstanding the temperature of the metal hydroxide layer . Preferably the first electrode is made of a material that does not corrode in the metal hydroxide layer . Preferably the first electrode is made of platinum RuO or other stable inert oxygen anodes. More preferably the first electrode is made of platinum Pt .

The second electrode is made of an electrically conductive material and electrically connects the voltage source to the active metal alloy layer . Preferably the second electrode is a graphite or metal conductor such as low chrome moly steel which does not dissolve or corrode in the active metal alloy layer . In the preferred embodiment the second electrode is made of iron. In the alternative the second electrode is omitted and an electrically conductive container is used as the second electrode . In this embodiment the metal hydroxide layer would be insulated from the container preferably by a coating on the inside walls of the container.

The insulation of the second electrode electrically isolates the second electrode from the metal hydroxide layer and is preferably a ceramic oxide. More preferably the insulation is zirconium dioxide ZrO or magnesium oxide MgO . The insulation is made of a material capable of withstanding the temperature and does not dissolve in the metal hydroxide layer or the active metal alloy layer .

In the alternative the container is electrically conductive and provides a current path between the voltage source and the active metal alloy layer . The steam source is insulated from the metal hydroxide layer or fed into the active metal alloy layer below the active metal alloy layer and metal hydroxide layer interface.

The shroud is preferably made of glass and has a bottom enclosure to prevent hydrogen from being sequestered with oxygen. Preferably a diffusion barrier or frit is used to prevent hydrogen from being sequestered. In the preferred embodiment the shroud has a frit between the first electrode and the interface between the active metal alloy layer and the metal hydroxide layer whereby hydrogen is deflected off the frit and the metal hydroxide layer is in contact with the first electrode .

The voltage supplied by the voltage source is about the standard reference voltage of the metal hydroxide layer about enough to break down some of the metal hydroxide layer while also consuming heat endothermic reaction . The breakdown of the metal hydroxide layer from the second reaction replenishes the active metal alloy layer while also producing hydrogen and oxygen. The oxygen is sequestered by the shroud above the first electrode and the resulting hydrogen and steam that did not react with the active metal alloy layer is captured by the closed vessel above the container . A selected voltage is applied to the electrodes to replenish the active metal alloy layer . Preferably the voltage supplied by the voltage source is the voltage resulting in the lowest energy used by the reactor per mole of hydrogen. The energy used will depend upon temperature voltage and steam recuperation used in the production of hydrogen. Although the breakdown of the metal hydroxide layer consumes heat the creation of the metal hydroxide layer generates a comparable amount of heat making the reaction approximately thermoneutral not generating or consuming heat .

In the preferred embodiment the active metal alloy layer is K Bi bismuth dissolved in potassium produced by mixing molten Bi with K. A small amount of KBi is also produced as an intermediate compound. Any KBi reacts with the water in steam in a similar reaction creating KOH and hydrogen. A steam at about 700 900 K from the steam source is introduced by the bent pipe creating the following reaction of Reaction 1 K Bi HO KOH H Bi Reaction 1 K the reactive metal makes the reaction of Reaction 1 exothermic. However the reaction of Reaction 1 is significantly slowed to a less violent reaction by Bi which both lowers the chemical activity of K and serves as a diluent. As shown in Reaction 1 steam HO and the active metal alloy layer K Bi are consumed producing the metal Hydroxide layer KOH and hydrogen. The hydrogen forms at the interface between the active metal alloy layer and the metal hydroxide layer .

A voltage is then applied across the metal hydroxide layer and the active metal alloy layer in the following reaction of Reaction 2 KOH Bi K Bi H O Reaction 2 As shown in Reaction 2 KOH the metal hydroxide layer and e electrons from the voltage source react producing K Bi replenishing the active metal alloy layer oxygen O and hydrogen H . The oxygen O is produced at the end of the first electrode . The hydrogen is produced at the interface of the active metal alloy layer and the metal hydroxide layer . The rate of reaction 1 formation of KOH is largely controlled by the rate of the steam feed. The rate of reaction 2 electrolytic decomposition of KOH can be adjusted by control of the applied potential. In this reactor these two rates are about equal so that a state of dynamic equilibrium exists in the cell.

Where Gis the Gibbs free energy for the formation of KOH into H Gis the Gibbs free energy for the decomposition of KOH Gis the Gibbs free energy for the formation of HO steam F is Faraday s constant R is the universal gas constant T is the temperature of the KOH metal hydroxide layer p H is the partial pressure of hydrogen H p HO is the partial pressure of water HO and p O is the partial pressure of oxygen O . Gand Ghave the same absolute value but are of opposite signs. Therefore Ereduces to 

Preferably the voltage is selected by calculating the voltage at which the least amount of energy is used to produce a mole of hydrogen. In the preferred embodiment using K Bi as the active metal alloy the voltage steam HO recovery and steam HO feed are accounted for giving an ideal yield 38 of about 68 as shown in . As shown in for a 68 yield about 1.0 to 1.2 volts is preferable more preferably 1.05 to about 1.15. For a K Bi active metal alloy at about 900 K 850 K 750 K a voltage of about 1.07 1.07 1.11 Volts respectively are preferable.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and the appended claims are intended to cover such modifications and arrangements.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

