---

title: Methods for determining a reputation score for a user of a social network
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for assigning a “karma” to users of a social network. In some embodiments, the karma is a score that is based on various reputations and feedback on a user. For example, reputation or feedback scores given to user in general are collected. In addition, karma is based on scores collected by analyzing feedback provided between two users. Thus, a reputation score for one from the point of view of the others may be calculated. Embodiments of the present invention provide an open interface (API) that allows users to submit their reputation scores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08386564&OS=08386564&RS=08386564
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08386564
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061130
---
The present invention relates to online services and communications tools and more particularly to social networks. In addition the present invention relates to maintaining online reputations.

In its short history Internet usage has been mainly driven by portals and search engines such as Yahoo and Google. Recently the rapid growth of social networking sites such as MySpace and Facebook has revealed a new trend of Internet usage. Social networking generally relates to services and tools that help users maintain and expand their circles of friends usually by exploiting existing relationships. Social networking sites have shown potential to become the places on the Internet where many people spend most of their time thus making these sites the main entry point for online activity. Often times these social networking sites can become the focal point of sharing information such as links multimedia music and the like.

In general social networking sites and other online services of the Internet offer a mix of features and tools such as message boards games journals or web logs blogs . Many of these sites try to build communities around multi media or popular culture such as television film music etc. These sites and their features are designed to keep users clicking on advertising supported pages of the site. Thus the known social networking sites employ a closed platform of services that attempt to keep their user base captive to the site.

Unfortunately it can be difficult for users to maintain their multiplicity of accounts for their social networks. For example users can have multiple profiles at multiple sites for their music email instant messaging etc. However most users eventually do not keep up with all of their accounts. For example many users have four or five e mail addresses but essentially may use only one or two of them.

In addition the Internet is crowded with a large number of social networking sites and sharing tools. For example the recent supremacy of iTunes has triggered a plethora of music service offerings. As another example the recent success of YouTube and Google Video has sparked an explosion of video sharing sites.

Unfortunately due to their current business model the known social network sites are vulnerable to spammers and other forms of fraud. This makes establishing trustful reputations a difficult process. Thus many closed social networking sites will likely become abandoned or a major hassle for users to maintain.

Accordingly it may be desirable to provide methods and systems that serve as an open platform for users to maintain their personas across a plurality of social networking sites and online services. It may also be desirable to provide methods and systems that serve as an open overlay that allows users to establish and maintain their reputations.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for assigning a karma to users of a social network. In some embodiments the karma is a score that is based on various reputations and feedback on a user. For example reputation or feedback scores given to user in general are collected. In addition karma is based on scores collected by analyzing feedback provided between two users. Thus a reputation score for one from the point of view of the others may be calculated. Embodiments of the present invention provide an open interface API that allows users to submit their reputation scores.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the invention which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Client provides a user interface for system . Client may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example client may be implemented on a personal computer workstation or terminal. In addition client may run under an operating system such as the LINUX operating system the Microsoft Windows operating system and the like. Client may also operate through an Internet browser application such as Firefox by Mozilla Internet Explorer by Microsoft Corporation or Netscape Navigator by Netscape Communications Corporation.

One skilled in the art will also recognize that client may be implemented with various peripheral devices such as a display one or more speakers and other suitable devices. Client may also be implemented with various peripherals for accepting input from a user such as a keyboard a mouse and the like. Although shows a number of clients system may include any number of clients.

Services are the applications and services that users of system already use. Services may be implemented on one or more servers that are well known to those skilled in the art. Rather than recreating functionality open overlay service merely interfaces services and allows users to seamlessly continue using the services such as social networking services instant messaging etc. that they currently use. Examples of services include iTunes Yahoo Music Engine MySpace Friendster AOL Instant Messenger Yahoo Messenger etc. Any sort of online service may be incorporated into the context provided by open overlay service .

Open overlay service serves as a social network service and stores manages and provides access control to the various services and social networks of clients . In general open overlay service is essentially a web site and application service that stores and forwards information shared by users as well as user profiles and social network information. Open overlay service may be hosted as a public instance similar in fashion to a service such as Wikipedia. In addition open overlay service may provide various application programming interfaces that have an open specification so that anyone can create an interface.

For example open overlay service may process requests to retrieve an object document image file web page and the like. Open overlay service may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example open overlay service may be implemented as a web site running on one or more servers that support various application programs and stored procedures.

The components of system may be coupled together via network . Network may comprise one or more networks such as a local area network the Internet or other type of wide area network. In addition network may support a wide variety of known protocols such as the transport control protocol and Internet protocol TCP IP and hypertext transport protocol HTTP .

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in open overlay service . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include the Linux operating system the UNIX operating system. In addition OS may operate in conjunction with other software such as an application server such as JBoss to implement various features of open overlay service .

Application server provides the logic for analyzing and managing the operations of open overlay service . As previously noted application server may be written in a variety of programming languages such as C C Java etc.

For example one responsibility of application server may be managing the various identities of the users of open overlay service . As noted previously a single person may have multiple identities that they use for various online services and social networks. For example a person named John Smith may use jsmith domain.com as an identity one service but use smithj domain2.com as his identity on another service.

In one embodiment in order to track the various users of open overlay service application server may assign each user a unique identifier such as a numeric identifier. Application server may then utilize this unique identifier with the identity resources i.e. email address account names screen names etc. used by services to identify a person. In some embodiments application server generates a graph of each social network within open overlay service in terms of person s names and the identity resources from the point of view of a particular user based on what is trusted by that user.

For example given information about a person s name their unique identifier assigned by application server and associations to identity resources trusted by other users application server can generate a list of person names and identity resources i.e. email address account names etc. that should be visible to a particular user. Hence the particular user will only be allowed to see identity resources they happen to or only know about that user and identity resources that have been verified by application server . For example a user A may have a unique identifier of 2345 and email address and email address as identity resources. A user B may only know about email address for user A. Meanwhile a user C may similarly only know about email address for user A. Thus for user B application server will only allow user B to view and use email address as an identity resource for user A. Likewise application server will only allow user C to view and use email address as an identity resource for user A. However if user A subsequently explicitly indicates to application server that both users B and C can be trusted then users B and C will then be also allowed to view both email addresses and as well. The primary uses of this information by open overlay service may be for sharing a link with person by addressing that person either by an email address or by a short nickname or for viewing a list of persons in open overlay service that they think they know.

Application server may also determine what information of a user should be public or private. In some embodiments application server may default to making information public but provide an option such as a checkbox that allows the user to designate information as private. Application server may also employ per page settings such as all private or all public. Other privacy policies may be implemented by application server .

Application server may further provide various search features. For example application server may allow users to search for other users based on various criteria such as age gender school etc. Application server may also allow searches for various resources such as email addresses topics links etc.

Messaging server manages communications between open overlay service and clients via network . For example messaging server may be configured to periodically poll clients on a regular basis and have them request information from services . Messaging server may be implemented based on well known hardware and software and utilize well known protocols such as TCP IP hypertext transport protocol etc.

Messaging server may be configured to handle a wide variety of data and may handle data that is in any format. For example information from clients may be in the form of an extensible markup language XML file or a network location such as a uniform resource locator U R on the Internet. Alternatively messaging server may be configured to obtain information from services directly in a peer to peer fashion.

Messaging agent serves as an interface between open overlay service and online services and may operate to monitor the activity of clients at these services. In particular messaging agent may be a relatively small and focused computer application or bot that runs continuously in the background simultaneously for each of clients as other programs are being run and responds automatically to activity on services that may be of interest to clients such as new messages postings and the like.

Messaging agent may be created by open overlay service i.e. by application server for the benefit of the users at clients . Alternatively for example messaging server may send information to clients upon request perform automated searches or monitor messages or events at services .

In one embodiment messaging server and or messaging agent may work in conjunction to perform client side data scraping on services . Client side data scraping may be desirable in some instances where services refuse or block a direct interface with open overlay service . For example MySpace and AOL s instant messaging service may be implemented as one of services but is known to block proxy requests for a client.

Client side data scraping may be initiated by messaging server or using information provided by messaging server. Messaging server may poll client overlay client to trigger a request to one of services . Accordingly overlay client may cause one of service applications to interface with service and request data from that service such as web page refresh. Since the request originated from client service will provide a response. Overlay client may detect this response and forward it to messaging server . Messaging server may then pass this response. Of course the polling may be configured at overlay client based on information provided to messaging server .

Messaging server evaluates the response and determines if a notification event is needed. If notification is needed messaging server send a message to overlay client . The notification may then be displayed to the user using for example browser or service application .

One application of client side data scraping may be used to detect when messages or postings have been entered on one of services . For example on MySpace users often repeatedly refresh their pages in anticipation of receiving a post or message from a friend. With client side data scraping open overlay service may automatically perform this function and more conveniently indicate when the user has received activity on their MySpace page. This notification may appear in the form of a pop up bubble or may be displayed as a link on the user s page in open overlay service . Of course other applications of client side data scraping are consistent with the principles of the present invention.

Web server provides a communications interface between open overlay service clients and services . For example web server may be configured to provide information that indicates the status of client . Such communications may be based on well known protocols and programming languages such as HTTP TCP IP and Java. Interfaces provided by web server may be implemented using well known Internet technologies such as web pages which are well known to those skilled in the art.

User database maintains information identifying users and clients . User database may be implemented using well known database technology such as relational databases or object oriented databases.

For example user database may include information indicating one or more operating systems and applications installed on clients as well as services subscribed to by users. User database may also comprise information related to authenticating a user determining the respective rights of a user relative to other users. For example a user may select various groups or channels of content in which they are interested in receiving information. User database may further include information that indicates the permissions and delivery of the information to clients . Other information that may be included in user database may comprise information such as system and individual permissions of clients on services activation keys registration information and payment information such as credit card information .

Furthermore user database may include other information related to the manner in which open overlay service communicates with clients . For example this information may relate to periodicity of notifications email addresses format of the information and the like. User database may include data structures to log the activities and transactions of its users. Activities such as recent links history of operations etc. that may be logged in user database are well known to those skilled in the art.

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in open overlay service . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include Mac OS by Apple Computer the Windows family of operating systems by Microsoft Corporation and the Linux operating system.

Overlay client maintains an inventory of the software and service applications installed on client and archives one or more states of activity on client . In some embodiments overlay client may be configured to periodically connect to open overlay service and perform various operations requested by open overlay service .

Browser is an application that runs on client and provides an interface to access information on network such as information on services . Browser may be implemented as well known programs such as Mozilla Firefox Microsoft Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator and the like.

Service applications run on client to support the services provided by services . For example service applications may be applications such as a browser an instant messaging client a music player such as iTunes and the like that are provided from services . Other examples for applications are well known to those skilled in the art.

User data cache provides a cache that indicates the activity of a user at client . For example user data cache may include information that indicates documents such as HTML pages images URL links web site access times and the like.

In order to illustrate some of the features of open overlay service that provide a live social context a feature for maintaining a user s karma will now be described. A user s karma is a score that is based on various reputations and feedback on that user. For example reputation or feedback scores given to user in general are collected. In addition karma is based on scores collected by analyzing feedback provided between two users. Thus a reputation score for one from the point of view of the others may be calculated. Embodiments of the present invention provide an open interface API that allows users to submit their reputation scores.

Given a user s email address or other unique IDs application server will return a reputation score as part of that user s karma. In addition given two names or other unique IDs application server can provide a reputation score for one from the point of view of the others.

One responsibility of application server is managing the various identities of the users of open overlay service . In some embodiments a single person may have multiple identities that they use for various online services and social networks. For example a person named John Smith may use jsmith domain.com as an identity one service but use smithj domain2.com as his identity on another service.

In one embodiment in order to track the various users of open overlay service application server may assign each user a unique identifier such as a numeric identifier. Application server may then rely on the identity resources i.e. email address account names screen names etc. used by services to identify a person. In some embodiments application server then generates a graph of each social network within open overlay service in terms of person s names and the identity resources from the point of view of a particular user based on what is trusted by that user.

In addition application server calculates a karma score for that user. As noted given a user s email address or other unique IDs application server will return a reputation score as part of that user s karma. In addition given two names or other unique IDs application server can provide a reputation score for one from the point of view of the others.

The reputation scores may be actively or passively determined. Active determine of reputation scores may be based primarily on explicit feedback provided by other users. Passive determination may be based primarily on passively monitoring the interaction of the user with the social network. For example a user who has frequent and lengthy interactions with the social network may be assigned a relatively higher karma score. In addition the karma scores corresponding to those other users that are frequently shared with may also be higher As another example if recommendations or sharing activity is frequently distributed and accepted that user may be assigned a higher karma score. One skilled in the art will recognize that there are many algorithms that may be used to calculate a karma score.

For example given information about a person s name their unique identifier assigned by application server and associations to identity resources trusted by other users application server can generate a list of person names and identity resources i.e. email address account names etc. and the respective karma scores for that pairing.

Upon determining a user s karma scores open overlay service may then use these scores in various ways. For example open overlay service may publish the various karma scores of the user. This publishing may be on a small scale published only to the social network or on a large scale published to all users of the social network service .

Open overlay service may restrict or monitor the activities of users based on the karma scores. For example a user who is discovered to be a spammer or fraud may be given a low karma score. As another example a user with low karma scores may be restricted from certain social networks viewing certain information about other users or precluded from posting links or blogs. Meanwhile a user with high karma scores may be given more preference in sharing activity.

Users of open overlay service may also utilize the karma scores. For example users may block activity from other users with low karma scores. Alternatively users may prefer suggestions and recommendations from other users with high karma scores.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

