---

title: Multi-touch uses, gestures, and implementation
abstract: A tablet PC having an interactive display, which is touchscreen enabled, may be enhanced to provide a user with superior usability and efficiency. A touchscreen device may be configured to receive multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts. The attributes of the multiple concurrent touchscreen contracts may be mapped to operations performed on the computing device. As a result, a user can trigger the execution of the toggle accessibility aid operation and the screen rotation operation with greater convenience. Moreover, the tablet PC may be configured to map an operation to a hand gesture or input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09063647&OS=09063647&RS=09063647
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09063647
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060512
---
The interaction between computing devices and users continues to improve as computing platforms become more powerful and able to respond to a user in many new and different ways. A user is no longer required to only type on a keyboard in order to control applications and input data. The development of a graphic user interface system like that provided by Microsoft Corporation s WINDOWS operating system has greatly improved the ease with which a user can interact with a computing device by enabling a user to input actions and make selections in a more natural and intuitive manner. The ease with which a user can input control actions is particularly important in applications where the need to provide input quickly and efficiently is important e.g. video games virtual environments file folder management etc. In the past users typically interacted with virtual environments by manipulating a mouse joystick wheel game pad track ball or other user input device to carry out some operations as defined by the software program that produces the virtual environment.

One form of user input employs displays that are responsive to the touch of a user s finger or a stylus. These touch sensitive devices are becoming more common in computing systems. They are very convenient as they allow a user to make natural gestures familiar to the user in other contexts such as by entering handwriting using a stylus. Many of these devices also allow input to be provided by non stylus objects such as a user s fingertip. Touch sensitive displays can be pressure activated respond to electrical capacitance or changes in magnetic field intensity employ surface acoustic waves respond to changes in brightness by detecting light or shadow from a finger or object over the display or respond to other conditions that indicate the location of a finger or stylus on the display. As a result a user can more directly interact with an application or operating system on a computing device. For example the user may touch the touch sensitive display with a single finger to select a virtual object and then drag the selected virtual object to a new position on the touch sensitive display. The term touchscreen or interactive display device will be used herein to refer to such surfaces displays or devices that are configured to detect the touch of a stylus and or a non stylus object.

Generally touch sensitive capacitive or electromagnetic sensitive display surfaces lack good imaging resolution inadequately distinguish shape and orientation of objects and are deficient in sensing multiple objects in contact with the display surface at one time. Also a pressure sensitive display surface requires actual contact with the display surface and cannot respond to objects that are in proximity with the display surface. Accordingly it would be desirable for an interactive display device to respond to specific gestures made with the user s finger s or other objects that are detected by the interactive display device.

An interactive display device for receiving multiple concurrent inputs or gestures from a user in order to execute intuitive or user configured operations on a computing system is disclosed. In accordance with aspects of the invention a computing system with a touchscreen device including an interactive display device for performing an operation on the computing system in response to user input or gestures is disclosed. The user input or gestures may be multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts or multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts that change along a generally predefined pattern. In one example a user may execute a toggle accessibility aid operation on the computing device by using two fingers on the interactive display device. In another example a user may execute a screen rotation operation moving all four fingers and thumb in a jar lid opening path along the surface of the interactive display device.

Furthermore a computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions for performing aspects of the invention is disclosed. The computer readable instructions may exist at one or more levels of the computing system e.g. device driver level operating system level application level or others.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Aspects of the present invention relate to performing an operation on a computing device such as a tablet in response to input or gestures from a user of a touch sensitive input device. As a versatile input method touch sensitive input devices e.g. touchscreen devices in accordance with aspects of the invention can perform a variety of tasks including but not limited to support for multiple simultaneous touchscreen contacts i.e. multi touch support . For example a computing device equipped with a conventional touchscreen device may provide proper on screen keyboard support for a user. Meanwhile multi touch capabilities allow the user to hold the shift key or another modifier key with one finger while typing with another. Meanwhile in a collaborative environment a touchscreen device in accordance with aspects of the invention provides support for concurrent input from multiple users e.g. in an electronic whiteboard scenario. Furthermore a touchscreen device in accordance with aspects of the invention provides support for multiple input streams in ISV applications such as graphics applications supporting finger painting.

In accordance with aspects of the invention a user of a touchscreen device on a computing system may create intuitive gestures or modify existing gestures with multiple fingers chording e.g. multi fingered flicks for secondary actions or spiking e.g. a finger flick with an immediate opposite finger flick without lifting the finger from the touchscreen device and preconfigure the system to perform an operation in response to the gesture. For example a single fingered flick spiking action may be used for primary actions. For example a user may toggle visibility or availability of an accessibility aid e.g. a hover widget touch pointer soft keyboard etc. in response to a predetermined gesture or input. In another example a user may change the orientation of viewable objects displayed by the system e.g. a screen rotation in response to a predetermined gesture. After review of the entirety disclosed herein one skilled in the art will appreciate that there are a number of gestures that are intuitive and would translate well to a touchscreen device in accordance with aspects of the invention.

With reference to an illustrative system for implementing the invention includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line . Additionally device may also have additional features functionality. For example device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device touchscreen device interactive display device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included.

Aspects of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

In various embodiments the system provides an ink platform as a set of COM component object model services that an application can use to capture manipulate and store ink. One service enables an application to read and write ink using the disclosed representations of ink. The ink platform may also include a mark up language including a language like the extensible markup language XML . Further the system may use DCOM as another implementation. Yet further implementations may be used including the Win32 programming model and the .Net programming model from Microsoft Corporation.

In step the touchscreen device receives input provided by the user. In accordance with aspects of the invention the user may provide multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts. The input has attributes corresponding to each touchscreen contact. Some examples of attributes of a touchscreen contact include but are not limited to the size e.g. dimensions of the contact area absolute position of the contact area relative position of the contact area e.g. position relative to other concurrent contacts amount of pressure provided at the contact area and other characteristics of inputs for a touchscreen device known to those of skill in the art.

In step the user input is processed in accordance with aspects of the invention. Processing the user input includes but is not limited to identifying the attributes of each touchscreen contact and identifying an operation if any to perform in response to the input. For example a computing system in accordance with aspects of the invention may identify multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts at different positions i.e. locations on the touchscreen device. By way of example a first touchscreen contact may be located at an absolute position ten pixels down and forty pixels to the right of the upper left corner of the touchscreen device. A second touchscreen contact may be located at an absolute position five pixels down and fifty pixels to the right of the upper left corner of the touchscreen device. In addition the touchscreen device may identify the dimensions of each of the multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts.

In accordance with various aspects of the invention the computing system e.g. tablet may be preconfigured with a mapping between user inputs and operations that may be performed on the computing system. In the prior example the attributes of the multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts corresponding to the input indicate that two fingers were used to provide input to the touchscreen device. Assuming the computing system had been preconfigured with a mapping between a toggle accessibility aid operation e.g. the toggle touch pointer widget operation and the attributes described above then the computing system would in step identify the appropriate operation to perform.

As a result in step the computing system performs a toggle accessibility aid operation. In the prior example the input provided by the user indicated that the toggle accessibility aid operation should be performed in step . The toggle accessibility aid operation in this particular example is the toggle touch pointer widget operation which results in the toggling of the visibility of a touch pointer widget on the interactive display device. A user may use a touch pointer widget which is similar to a virtual mouse pointer to more precisely designate a position on the screen of the interactive display device as illustrated in . Another example of a toggle accessibility aid operation is the toggle soft keyboard operation which results in the toggling of the visibility of a soft keyboard widget on the interactive display device. shows an illustrative depiction of the soft keyboard widget on an interactive display device. A user may type or tap on the soft keyboard widget to create inputs similar to a conventional keyboard. Other examples of accessibility aids are screen readers magnifiers and other widgets known to those of skill in the art.

Referring to the touch pointer widget is a graphical depiction adjacent to or surrounding a pointer e.g. a mouse cursor . By placing a finger on the area e.g. area represented by the touch pointer widget and dragging the user may manipulate the pointer in a more precise manner then may be possible with a relatively blunt finger. As can be appreciated the touch pointer widget depicted in resembles a conventional mouse. While other designs may provide improved interface an advantage of such a conventional shape such as the mouse is that it is more intuitive for the user as most users are familiar with using a mouse to move a cursor. The user may also press the left and right button so as to simulate a right or left button press on a mouse.

Continuing with the prior example assuming the touch pointer widget was previously invisible the user may instruct the computing device to toggle the visibility of the touch pointer widget i.e. make the touch pointer widget visible by tapping the interactive display surface of the touchscreen device with two fingers e.g. the pointer finger and middle finger. In response the computing system will perform the preconfigured operation.

Although the prior example preconfigured a two finger concurrent touchscreen device input to correspond to the toggle touch pointer widget operation one skilled in the art will appreciate that an input consisting of any number of fingers may be mapped to the operation. Moreover variations in other attributes of the touchscreen contacts e.g. amount of pressure at the touchscreen contact area may be used to designate other operations. For example an input from a user using two fingers with only slight pressure at the touchscreen contact area may be preconfigured to the toggle touch pointer widget operation and an input from a user using two fingers with heavy pressure at the touchscreen contact area may be preconfigured to another operation e.g. a toggle soft keyboard widget operation.

In step the touchscreen device receives a gesture from a user of the computing system. In accordance with aspects of the invention the gesture may be comprised of multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts that change along a generally predefined pattern. Some examples of attributes of a touchscreen contact include but are not limited to the size e.g. dimensions of the contact area absolute position of the contact area relative position of the contact area e.g. position relative to other concurrent contacts amount of pressure provided at the contact area and other characteristics of inputs for a touchscreen device known to those of skill in the art.

In step the gesture is processed in accordance with aspects of the invention. Processing the gesture includes but is not limited to identifying the attributes of each concurrent touchscreen contact and identifying an operation if any to perform in response to the gesture. For example a computing system in accordance with aspects of the invention may identify multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts at different positions i.e. locations on the touchscreen device. A first second third and fourth concurrent touchscreen contact may be located in a semi circular pattern on the touchscreen device. A fifth and final concurrent touchscreen contact may be located in a relative position below the semi circular pattern formed by the first second third and fourth touchscreen contacts. In addition the touchscreen device may identify other attributes of the multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts for use in identifying a corresponding preconfigured operation to execute. In addition any changes in the attributes of the concurrent multiple touchscreen contacts may be monitored to identify any predefined patterns. For example a change in the positions of the multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts in a generally semi circular path along the surface of the touchscreen device may indicate that the user desires to perform the screen rotation operation while a change in position in a generally linear path could alternately be mapped to a scrolling or panning operation.

In accordance with various aspects of the invention the computing system e.g. tablet may be preconfigured with a mapping between gestures and operations that may be performed on the computing system. In the prior example the attributes of the multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts corresponding to the gesture indicate that four fingers and a thumb were used on the touchscreen device. In addition the multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts were moved in a generally semi circular path along the touchscreen device surface similar to a jar lid opening motion. Assuming the computing system had been preconfigured with a mapping between the screen rotation operation e.g. tablet screen rotation operation and the attributes described above then the computing system would in step identify the appropriate operation to perform.

As a result in step the computing system performs a screen rotation operation. In the prior example the gesture provided by the user indicated that the screen rotation operation should be performed in step . The screen rotation operation results in all viewable objects e.g. icons wallpapers taskbar dialog boxes etc. displayed on the interactive display device to be rotated by a predetermined angle e.g. ninety degrees. The screen rotation operation in accordance with aspects of the invention may be particularly advantageous for a tablet user that chooses to easily switch his or her tablet between a landscape and portrait orientation. In this example the user may simply touch the interactive display screen with all four fingers and thumb placed in a circular formation e.g. as if grasping a jar lid and rotate his or her hand along the surface of the screen. In response the computing system will perform the preconfigured operation i.e. the screen rotation operation .

Although the prior example preconfigured a four fingers and thumb gesture to correspond to the screen rotation operation one skilled in the art will appreciate that a gesture consisting of only two or more fingers and or no thumb may be mapped to the operation. Moreover variations in other attributes of the touchscreen contacts e.g. amount of pressure at the touchscreen contact area may be used to designate other operations. In addition one skilled in the art will appreciate that the predetermined angle by which viewable objects are rotated may vary according to the needs of the user and or system. For example in one embodiment in accordance with aspects of the invention the predetermined angle may be determined at the time of the multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts by the amount of circular rotation performed in the user s gesture. Furthermore in some examples the screen rotation operation may be used to rotate a selected object on the interactive display device for example in a computer graphics or drawing program.

After review of the entirety disclosed herein one skilled in the art will appreciate that in accordance with aspects of the invention the execution of any operation may be preconfigured in response to a user defined input or gesture. For example the window resize operation may be mapped to a user concurrently using two fingers on a window object in an interactive display device. The user may use the two fingers to conveniently resize and or position the window or control box as desired. In another example a user may use two fingers to select items e.g. file icons folder icons etc. displayed in an interactive display device while using the second finger to add or delete items from the list of selected items. These operations are similar to traditional ctrl clicking operations but enhance usability and user efficiency. In yet another example a computing device may be preconfigured to allow a user s pinching gesture to zoom in and out. Furthermore a finger roll gesture i.e. contact with the touchscreen device beginning with the pinky finger then ring finger then middle finger followed by the index finger and then the thumb may be designated for an alt tab or other sorting selecting operation.

In accordance with various aspects of the invention the computing system e.g. tablet may be preconfigured with a mapping between inputs gestures and operations that may be performed on the computing system. diagrams an illustrative mapping stored in the computing system for preconfiguring user inputs gestures to operations. In a prior example a gesture using four fingers and a thumb that change positions in a generally semi circular path on a touchscreen device was preconfigured to correspond to the screen rotation operation . Likewise in a prior example a user input using two fingers on a touchscreen device was preconfigured to correspond to the toggle accessibility aid operation . Assuming a computing system in accordance with aspects of the invention had been preconfigured with a mapping between the operations and the concurrent touchscreen contact attributes described above then the computing system would identify the appropriate operation to perform.

In accordance with various aspects of the invention the computer executable instructions for identifying an operation to perform on the computing system in response to a preconfigured user input or gesture may be stored in a computer readable medium in the computing system. The computer executable instructions may be executed at the device driver level operating system level application level or other level.

In one example at the device driver level frequency characteristics of the touchscreen device may be adjusted to allow for multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts. For instance a conventional touchscreen device that reports a single touchscreen contact at 133 hertz hz may be adjusted to report two concurrent touchscreen contacts at 66 hz each. In another example three concurrent touchscreen contacts may be reported at 44 hz each. Although this embodiment in accordance with aspects of the invention scaled nicely for varying number of touchscreen contracts it lowers input resolution by dividing a constant reporting frequency among multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts.

In another example at the device driver level the size of the packets provided by the touchscreen device are increased to accommodate multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts. For example instead of reporting a single touchscreen contract s worth of information e.g. 1 kilobyte of information in a given update the system reports ten concurrent touchscreen contacts in a packet carrying 10 kilobytes of information. The disadvantage of this approach is that unless the user is constantly providing ten concurrent touchscreen contacts packet size is wasted. Moreover in some systems the driver is limited to reporting a finite number of concurrent touchscreen contacts. The advantage is the reporting frequency is unaltered assuming the bus supports the increased packet size.

In yet another example at the device driver level the touchscreen device may expose two logical devices one logical device that functions similar to a traditional touchscreen device e.g. a digitizer that reports a single touchscreen contact and another logical device that reports full information about multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts. In this example applications may pull the full information from the device and or driver with an appropriate request e.g. a request comprising the number of touchscreen contacts attributes for a given touchscreen contact etc. In another example the full information returned may be an image of the touchscreen contact corresponding to every pixel on the interactive display device screen e.g. a grey scale image showing pressure or distance from the device for every pixel . In a variation on the above example a second logical device may be unnecessary if an additional flag is included to indicate the presence of additional data. An application or operating system may then choose to retrieve the additional data using an IOCTL for example.

In accordance with various aspects of the invention algorithms and heuristics may be used to receive and process input and or gestures. For example in some examples applications on the computing device may use palm rejection heuristics to predict when a touchscreen contact should be ignored. For example if the size attribute of a touchscreen contact is too large e.g. likely a hand s palm it may be advantageous to ignore the contact. In another example an application on the computing device may desire to ignore multiple concurrent contacts altogether. In such an instance the operating system of the computing device may maintain information about the state of the application and the user. It may also be beneficial in some embodiments of the invention to divide computational logic between the device driver and operating system. One skilled in the art will appreciate that it may be beneficial to track multi touch contact attributes to for example determine when a finger is tapped on the touchscreen repeatedly. A consistent cursor identifier may be assigned to the gesture or input.

In addition one skilled in the art will appreciate that it may be advantageous to provide an application programmer s interface API to interface with and utilize the numerous features and functionality of aspects of the invention. For example standard notifications such as StylusDown Packets and SytlusUp may be used to request full information about multiple concurrent touchscreen contacts from the operating system. In addition a set of ready to use controls and pre built plugins for existing platform frameworks e.g. RealTimeStylus may be used in a computing system configured in accordance with aspects of the invention.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure.

