---

title: Gas-filled surge arrester, activating compound, ignition stripes and method therefore
abstract: A gas-filled surge arrester includes at least two electrodes, a gas filling and an activating compound applied to at least one of said electrodes. The activating compound can include: (i) nickel powder in an amount of about 10% to about 35% by weight; (ii) potassium or sodium silicate in an amount of about 20% to about 40% by weight; (iii) titanium powder in an amount of about 5% to about 25% by weight; (iv) calcium titanium oxide in an amount of about 5% to about 15% by weight; and (v) sodium bromide in an amount of about 10% to about 20% by weight. Ignition striping process and resulting stripes from ink-jetting of striping material are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07643265&OS=07643265&RS=07643265
owner: Littelfuse, Inc.
number: 07643265
owner_city: Chicage
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060914
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application GAS FILLED SURGE ARRESTER ACTIVATING COMPOUND IGNITION STRIPES AND METHOD THEREFORE filed Sep. 14 2005 Ser. No. 60 716 866.

The present invention relates generally to electronic components and more particularly to surge protection and gas tube surge arresters.

The demand for devices that protect sensitive electronic components from overvoltage surges is increasing. There are different devices on the market for this purpose. Certain of these devices are better suited for certain applications.

There are generally two surge protection classifications each including different types of devices. One classification of surge protection devices is the crowbar classification. Crowbar devices include air gaps carbon blocks silicon controlled rectifiers SCR s voltage variable material VVM devices and gas tube surge arresters the subject of the present invention. Another classification of surge protection devices is the clamping classification. Clamping devices include zener or avalanche diodes and metal oxide varisters MOV s .

 Clamping devices limit the voltage transient to a specified level by varying an internal resistance based on the applied voltage. The clamping devices themselves absorb the energy of the transient. Clamping devices have relatively quick response times but are relatively limited in ability to withstand high current levels.

Generally a crowbar device limits the energy delivered to the protected circuit by abruptly changing from a high impedance state a low impedance state in response to an elevated voltage level. After being subjected to a sufficient voltage level the crowbar device which is normally nonconductive begins to conduct. While conducting the arc voltage across the crowbar device remains relatively low e.g. at or below 15 volts for gas discharge tube curve as shown below in . The majority of the transient s power is dissipated to ground or to the resistive elements of the circuit and not to the portion of the circuit intended to be protected by the crowbar device or gas tube surge arresters. Such power dissipation renders gas tube surge arresters able to withstand and protect loads from higher voltage and or higher current levels for a greater duration of time than clamping devices.

Referring to one known gas tube surge arrester includes two electrodes and that are fitted with a hollow cylindrical ceramic insulator . Inside the insulator inner surfaces of electrodes and are coated with an activating compound. Referring to another known gas tube surge arrester includes the two outer electrodes and that are fitted with two ceramic insulators and which are separated by a third electrode . Both arresters and house a gas such as argon or neon. The activating compound aids in making the gas conductive upon an overvoltage transient event.

Operating parameters for gas tube surge arresters include i static or DC sparkover voltage ii dynamic or surge sparkover voltage iii extinguishing voltage iv glow voltage v current carrying capacity under alternating current and vi unipolar pulsed current. Those operating parameters can be effected by various factors such as i the structural layout of the electrodes ii the type of gas used iii the pressure at which the gas is maintained within the arrester iv the configuration of one or more ignition strip within the arrester and v the activating compound disposed on the active surfaces of the electrodes.

The activating compounds can include multiple components. For example one known compound includes three components namely aluminum sodium bromide and barium titanate. While this compound is useable a need exists for new activating compounds that attempt to improve the operating parameters of gas tube surge arresters such as the operating parameters listed above.

Discussed in more detail below are multiple examples of gas filled surge arresters. The arresters generally include at least two electrodes coupled to an insulative housing. A gas is filled into the housing enclosed by the electrodes. An activating compound is applied to at least one of said electrodes. Under normal operation and normal operating voltages current cannot conduct from one electrode to another. Upon an overvoltage condition the voltage reaches a breakdown point at which the gas ionizes and creates a conductive path. Once current is passing through the device the electrode coating acts as a electron source protecting the metal electrode and allowing the overvoltage condition to be repeated many times before the device exceeds its specified operating parameters. During this period as seen below in the voltage is held a particular voltage e.g. about 15 volts and corresponding current is able to flow e.g. to be dissipated to ground minimizing the potentially harmful effects of the overvoltage condition.

The housing can be made of any suitable insulating material such as ceramic glass plastic or any suitable combination thereof. The housing can be at least generally cylindrical or of any suitable shape that can be hermetically sealed to hold a gas atmosphere. To that end the housing is made to have a thickness capable of holding a gas atmosphere and withstand large mechanical stresses associated with absorbing large surge currents such as found with a lightning surge.

In one embodiment a single housing is employed. The electrodes are attached at each end of the housing. In another embodiment two housings are employed. An electrode attaches at an outer end of each housing. A third inner electrode is sandwiched between the two housings. In one implementation the inner electrode is coated on one or both sides with the activating compound.

The inside surface of the housing can include or be deposited with one or more ignition stripe. The ignition stripe s can be graphite for example. The ignition stripes improve the dynamic response of the arrester. The ignition stripes can have at least one characteristic selected from the group consisting of i being made of at least one non graphite material ii being made of a pattern of dots and iii including multiple stripes distributed at least one of axially and radially on the inner surface of the housing.

The housing can have at least one characteristic selected from the group consisting of i housing the enclosed gas ii being made of ceramic glass or plastic iii supporting at least one ignition stripe iv being at least substantially cylindrical and v being disposed on either side of an inner electrode.

In one implementation the one or more electrode surface upon which the compound is applied includes depressions into which the compound is applied. The depressions can create a waffle like surface which is better able to hold the compound and can hold more compound. As alluded to before the electrode such as an end electrode can be coated on one side with the activating compound. Alternatively an inner electrode can be coated on multiple sides.

In another implementation the electrodes are formed so that when attached to the housing s portions of two or more electrodes are spaced closely to one another to form an enclosed spark gap. Those portions can be coated with the activating compound. The close spacing of multiple surfaces having the compound also serves to improve the dynamic response of the arrester.

The electrodes can be made of any one or more suitable material such as copper nickel nickel iron or any combination thereof e.g. alloyed layered or plated .

The electrode upon which the compound is applied includes at least one characteristic selected from the group consisting of i including depressions into which the compound is applied ii having compound applied to one side of the electrode iii having compound applied to multiple sides of the electrode iv being formed so that a portion of the electrode is spaced closely to another one of the electrodes and v being made of copper nickel nickel iron any combination thereof any layered combination thereof and any plated combination thereof.

The gas which fills the arrester can vary. The gas can be an inert gas such as nitrogen neon krypton or argon or other generally non reactive gas. The gas can alternatively be a reactive gas such as hydrogen. The gas can be a mixture of reactive and non reactive gases such as any combination of hydrogen nitrogen neon krypton and argon. The gas in one implementation is pressurized within the arrester as necessary depending on the required breakdown voltage e.g. 14 psig to 40 psig . A vacuum can be applied initially to the arrester to remove air nitrogen oxygen and argon before backfilling the arrester with the desired blend to the desired pressure.

The enclosed gas is of at least one type selected from the group consisting of i an inert gas ii a reactive gas iii a pressurized gas iv an evacuated gas v a mixture of gases vi hydrogen vii silane viii nitrogen viii argon ix neon x krypton and xii carbon dioxide and xiii helium.

The activating compound can also vary. In one implementation the compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium or sodium silicate in an amount of about 20 to about 60 by weight iii titanium powder in an amount of about 5 to about 25 by weight iv sodium carbonate in an amount of about 5 to about 15 by weight and v cesium chloride in an amount of about 10 to about 20 by weight.

In another implementation the compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium or sodium silicate in an amount of about 20 to about 60 by weight iii titanium powder in an amount of about 5 to about 25 by weight iv sodium carbonate in an amount of about 5 to about 15 by weight and v sodium bromide in an amount of about 10 to about 20 by weight.

In a further implementation the compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium silicate in an amount of about 30 to about 60 by weight iii sodium bromide in an amount of about 20 to about 25 by weight and iv calcium titanium oxide in an amount of about 5 to about 10 by weight.

In still another implementation the compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium or sodium silicate in an amount of about 20 to about 60 by weight iii titanium powder in an amount of about 5 to about 25 by weight iv calcium titanium oxide in an amount of about 5 to about 15 by weight and v sodium bromide in an amount of about 10 to about 20 by weight.

In still a further implementation the compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight e.g. 13.2 ii potassium metasilicate in an amount of about 10 to about 20 by weight e.g. 17.6 iii aluminum silicon powder in an amount of about 5 to about 20 by weight e.g. 13.2 iv sodium carbonate in an amount of about 5 to about 20 by weight e.g. 15.4 and v cesium chloride in an amount of about 25 to about 45 by weight e.g. 40.6 .

In yet another implementation the compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium silicate in an amount of about 30 to about 60 by weight iii sodium chloride in an amount of about 20 to about 25 by weight and iv barium titanium oxide in an amount of about 5 to about 10 by weight.

Also discussed in more detail below are various systems for ink jetting the above mentioned ignition stripes onto an interior surface of the housing of the surge arrester. As described in detail below the ignition stripes aid in the overall electrical performance of the surge arresters. Ink jetting the stripes provides a multitude of advantages. For example ignition stripes have typically been made of graphite however the ink jetting system allows for the striping deposition of non graphite materials. Other advantages include the flexibility accuracy and repeatability that the microprocessor controlled systems provide.

The ink jetting system can be a demand based system or a continuous system. In the demand based system ink jetting material is gravity fed or pumped into a nozzle wherein the material is maintained at atmospheric pressure. The striping material within the nozzle or directly adjacent to the nozzle is placed in contact with an energy source such as a piezoelectric transducer or electrical resistor such as a thin film resistor. The nozzle defines an internal chamber having an orifice or opening. To produce a ink jet droplet of striping material the energy source transmits energy into the chamber of the nozzle. The added energy creates a gas bubble in the material and volumetrically forces a known quantity of striping material through the orifice forming a droplet. The droplet is projected and or gravity fed onto the inner surface of the arrester housing.

The energy source is electronically coupled to a microprocessor based control system which stores striping patterns or programs. The computer patterns dictate the frequency at which droplets exit the nozzle and the size of the droplets. In particular the computer programs result in a data pulse which is sent to a driver for the energy source. The driver converts the data pulse into a voltage pulse e.g. on off 0 to 5 VDC which is sent to the energy source. The length or on time of a particular pulse in an embodiment determines the size of the droplet. The time between leading edges of two adjacent pulses in an embodiment determines the frequency at which the droplets leave the orifice.

In an alternative embodiment a continuous ink jetting system is provided. Here a continuous stream of striping material exists the nozzle. Immediately thereafter the material flows through a charging apparatus that vibrates the continuous stream into separate droplets. The charging apparatus also charges the separate droplets. After passing through the charging apparatus the individual and charged droplets of striping material pass through high voltage deflection plates which can cause the droplets to deflect in one direction or another relative to the plates. In this manner the droplets can be deflected or not deflected onto to the inner surface of the insulative housing of the arrester. Or the droplets can be deflected into a droplet collector so that those droplets are not deposited on the inner surface of the arrester housing. The charging of the particles therefore controls the frequency at which droplets are deposited onto the housing.

With continuous ink jetting the frequency at which droplets are deflected from the stream into the collector sets the frequency at which the remaining droplets are deposited onto the housing. The size of the droplets in the continuous system is determined by the size of the stream and the output level of the charging apparatus.

The demand and continuous ink jetting systems each operate in tandem with a motion control system which for example includes at least two motors configured to move the housing in two dimensions. In one embodiment one motor rotates the housing about a longitudinally extending orifice needle or tube while a second motor translates the housing in a direction coaxial orifice needle or tube. Shown below is one example of such a system that employs two stepper motors wherein one stepper motor is mounted to a block that is threaded or has one or more threaded component which receives a threaded shaft or lead screw. The lead screw is coupled to a second motor. That second motor turns the lead screw to cause the block upon which the first motor is mounted to translate back and forth relative to the ink jetting nozzle. The first motor mounted on the block is coupled to a holder that holds the housing removably fixed within the holder. The first motor is coupled to and can rotate the holder and thus the housing relative to the nozzle extending longitudinally into the housing. In the example illustrated below the nozzle remains stationary while the housing is moved in two dimensions relative to the nozzle.

Alternatively one or both of the rotational or translational motion is provided via the ink jetting apparatus. Here the nozzle rotates or translates with respect to the insulative housing. For example the ink jetting apparatus can be configured to translate back and forth with respect to the arrester housing while apparatus is provided to rotate the housing with respect to the ink jetting nozzle. In this manner the ink jetting apparatus and the housing holding each provide a component to the overall motion control.

The microprocessor based systems operate one or more motion control program in conjunction with the ink jetting pattern program discussed above to produce highly accurate and repeatable ink jetting striping pattern. The striping material may be any suitable conductive or semiconductive material in liquid vehicle and binding agent such as black ink jet printer ink. These stripes can be axially radially and or diagonally disposed along the inner surface of the housing such as a cylindrical housing. The stripes can be provided in any suitable quantity arrangement and pattern. The stripes can be continuous at least to the naked eye or comprise multiple discernable smaller shapes such as spots. The thickness of the stripes can also be controlled to a better extent than with traditional pencil striping systems. For example the housing can be held steady while multiple droplets are deposited at the same spot on the housing. The microprocessor based system enables custom striping patterns to be developed and tailored to specific arresters having specific electrical performance characteristics.

Accordingly in one embodiment a surge arrester is made via a process including the steps of i providing an insulative housing ii ink jetting at least one ignition deposition onto an interior of the housing the deposition including at least one non graphite material and iii enclosing the housing with at least one electrode the electrode having an applied activating compound.

The process may include at least one additional step selected from the group consisting of i attaching sections of the housing to either side of an inner electrode ii pressurizing a gas within the housing and iii evacuating the housing.

The deposition may be made of at least one material selected from the group consisting of i graphite ii copper powder dispersed in a liquid vehicle and binding agent iii film resistor element ink and iv conductive film inks diluted to increase resistivity.

Ink jetting the at least one deposition can include at least one of i heating the material ii applying a voltage to the material iii energizing the material iv flowing the material through an opening v deflecting the material vi dispensing droplets of the material to produce a desired pattern of the droplets on the inslulative housing and vii catching droplets in a reservoir that are not intended to be part of the deposition.

The process can include at least one further step of i rotating the housing and ii translating the housing as the deposition is ink jetted on the housing.

The activating compound includes at least one material selected from the group consisting of nickel powder potassium silicate sodium silicate titanium powder sodium carbonate cesium chloride sodium bromide lithium bromide calcium titanium oxide potassium metasilirate aluminum silicon powder and calcium titanium oxide.

In another embodiment a surge arrestor is made via a process including the steps of i providing an insulative housing ii ink jetting at least one ignition deposition onto an interior of the housing the deposition including a pattern of droplets and iii enclosing the housing with at least one electrode the electrode having an applied activating compound.

The process can include at least one additional step selected from the group consisting of i attaching sections of the housing to either side of an inner electrode ii pressurizing a gas within the housing and iii evacuating the housing.

The deposition is made of at least one material selected from the group consisting of i graphite ii copper powder dispersed in a liquid vehicle and binding agent iii film resistor element ink and iv conductive film inks diluted to increase resistivity.

Ink jetting the at least one deposition includes at least one of i heating the material ii applying a voltage to the material iii energizing the material iv flowing the material through an opening v deflecting the material vi catching droplets in a reservoir that are not intended to be part of the deposition vii using a droplet pattern sequence stored in a computer readable medium to produce the pattern and viii dividing the pattern into grid locations and ink jetting a number of droplets into each grid location of the pattern.

The process can include at least one further step of i rotating the housing and ii translating the housing as the deposition is ink jetted on the housing.

The process can include ink jetting a plurality of depositions each deposition including a desired pattern of droplets the depositions spaced apart from one another to produce a desired pattern of depositions.

The housing can be at least substantially cylindrical wherein the desired pattern of depositions includes at least one of i a desired axial spacing and ii a desired radial spacing.

The deposition can be at least one of i at least generally continuous due to a close spacing of the droplets ii at least generally rectangular iii formed as a line iv axially extending along the housing which is at least substantially cylindrical and v formed from a plurality of discernable and separated shapes.

In a further embodiment a surge arrestor made via a process including the steps of i providing an insulative housing ii ink jetting at least one ignition deposition onto an interior of the housing the deposition including a pattern of spots the spots each including a plurality of droplets and iii enclosing the housing with at least one electrode the electrode having an applied activating compound.

The spots are at least one of i discernable with the naked eye ii at least generally round and iii axially extending along the housing which is at least substantially cylindrical.

It is another advantage of the present invention to provide improved activating compounds for gas tube surge arresters.

It is yet another advantage of the present invention to provide improved systems for applying ignition stripes to the housing of a gas tube surge arrester.

It is still a further advantage of the present invention to provide improved ignition stripes that are applied to the housing of a gas tube surge arrester.

Moreover it is an advantage of the present invention to provide a system and method for applying ignition stripes to relatively smaller ceramic or other insulating bodies.

Additional features and advantages of the present invention are described in and will be apparent from the following Detailed Description of the Invention and the figures.

Referring now to the drawings and particularly to a voltage vs. current curve for a gas tube surge arrester is illustrated. Under normal operation the gas tube surge arrester is not conductive. For the gas tube surge arrester to become conductive gas electrons within a sealed housing shown below in must gain sufficient energy to initiate an ionization of gas discussed below stored within the sealed housing.

Complete ionization of the gas takes place through electron collision. The events leading up to the complete ionization occur when the gas tube surge arrester is subjected to a rising voltage potential. Once the gas is ionized breakdown occurs and the arrester changes from a high impedance state to a virtual short circuit enabling the transient to be diverted to e.g. ground away from a protected part of the circuit. As seen in the arc voltage or voltage across the gas tube surge arrester while the gas tube is conducting can be about 15 volts.

After the transient has passed the gas tube surge arrester extinguishes itself and again becomes at least substantially an open circuit. The gas tube surge arrester is therefore resettable. To ensure arrester turn off in alternating current AC applications the current through the arrester once the transient has passed must be less than the follow on current rating of the gas tube surge arrester. The follow on current requirement can be helped by placing an impedance in series with the arrester. In direct current DC applications the gas tube surge arrester is able to extinguish itself provided the device is operated within specified holdover test conditions which involve the maximum bias voltage for a specified current that can appear across the gas tube surge arrester while still allowing the gas tube surge arrester to be turned off.

The GDT s breakdown voltage shown in is determined by electrode spacing gas type e.g. neon argon hydrogen as discussed below gas pressure and the rate of rise of the transient. Breakdown voltage is generally considered to be the voltage at which the gas tube surge arrester changes from a high impedance state to a low impedance state. For example the breakdown voltage can be 230V 15 when subjected to a voltage ramp of 500V second. The arresters discussed below will experience breakdown at a higher voltage as the ramp rate of the transient increases.

The arresters discussed below have relatively rugged constructions enabling the arresters to handle relatively high currents e.g. greater than ten pulses of a 20 000 peak ampere pulse having a rise time of 8 microseconds decaying to half value in 20 microseconds also referred to as an 8 20 wave form . The surge life of the arresters below can be about one thousand shots of a 500 ampere peak 10 1000 pulse. With a relatively low maximum inter electrode capacitance the arresters discussed below can typically be placed into RF circuits. The arresters are also well suited to protect telephone circuits AC power lines modems power supplies CATV and other applications in which protection from large and or unpredictable transients is desired.

Referring now to one embodiment of a gas tube surge arrester is illustrated by arrester . Arrester includes electrodes and coupled to an insulative housing . A gas is filled e.g. pressurized into the housing enclosed by electrodes and . An activating compound is applied to at least one of electrodes and . Under normal operation and normal operating voltages current cannot conduct from one electrode to another. Upon an overvoltage condition the voltage reaches a breakdown point at which compound is activated. A current is then able to pass through arrester . Activating compound provides an electron source which can vary depending on the level of surge and which protects electrodes and from erosion during the surge. Consequently electrodes and are able to withstand multiple surges within resettable arrester .

In the embodiment illustrated in a single housing is employed. Electrodes and are attached to e.g. crimped press fit soldered adhered and or brazed onto each end of housing . In the illustrated embodiment electrodes and include or are connected to leads and respectively which enable arrester to be placed electrically into a circuit e.g. on a printed circuit board.

In one implementation one or both electrodes and includes or defines a series of depressions or waffles into which compound is applied. Depressions create a waffle like surface which is better able to hold compound and can hold more compound than a smooth surface. As illustrated each electrode and is coated on its inner surface with activating compound .

The inside surface of housing can include or be deposited with one or more ignition stripe . Ignition stripes improve the dynamic response of arrester by creating a field effect. Ignition stripes are applied to housing using a high resistivity conductive material. Typical ignition stripe s can be graphite or carbon. Ignition stripes extend the strong field effect produced at the electrodes and to increase the speed of generation of free charged particles in the gas which then rapidly move under the influence of the electric field produced between a negative electrode or the cathode e.g. electrode and a positive electrode or anode e.g. anode . Ignition stripe s can be placed in a pattern as illustrated or in a row or multiple rows. As illustrated certain of the stripes can contact one of the electrodes and while others do not. Stripes are spaced apart so that they do not form a conductive path between electrodes and .

One preferred method for depositing ignition stripes onto housing is discussed below in connection with .

Referring now to an alternative gas tube surge arrester is illustrated. Here electrodes and are formed so that when fixed to housing portions and of electrodes and respectively are spaced closely to one another. In one implementation a gap distance G between portions and is about 0.5 mm to about 1.5 mm. Portions and include depressions or waffles discussed above into which activating compound is placed.

The close spacing of multiple surfaces having the compound improves the dynamic response of arrester . In the illustrated embodiment arrester does not include ignition stripes . Alternatively arrester includes one or more ignition stripe .

Referring now to a further alternative gas tube surge arrester is illustrated. Here arrester includes end electrodes and and an e.g. tubular central electrode which is fixed via any of the methods described above to the inner ends of two insulative housings and . End electrodes and are likewise fixed to the outer ends of housings and

As with arrester electrodes and are formed so that when fixed to housings and portions and of electrodes and respectively are spaced closely to one another. In one implementation portions and are spaced apart a gap distance G described above. Portions and include depressions or waffles discussed above into which activating compound is placed.

Central electrode is provided with an annular recess into which additional activating compound is placed which can be the same or different compound placed in portions and and or in the single gap arresters and of . The annular recesses of central electrode may also include depressions or waffles discussed above.

Housings and of arresters and respectively can be made of any suitable insulating material such as ceramic glass plastic or any suitable combination thereof. Housings and can be at least generally cylindrical or of any suitable shape that can withstand a pressurized gas. To that end the housing and are made to have a thickness capable of holding pressurized gas .

Electrodes and of arresters and respectively can be made of any one or more suitable material such as copper nickel nickel iron or any combination thereof e.g. alloyed layered or plated . Electrodes and can have any suitable shape or lead arrangement for connecting to an external circuit such as on a printed circuit board. Alternatively arresters and can be configured to plug into a socket or other connection device.

The gas which fills arresters and can vary. Gas can be an inert gas such as nitrogen neon krypton or argon or other generally non reactive gas. Gas can be a reactive gas such as hydrogen. Gas can be a mixture such as any combination of hydrogen nitrogen neon krypton argon. Gas in one implementation is pressurized e.g. from 14 psig to 40 psig. Air originally within the arresters can be evacuated first before gas is backfilled into the arresters to the desired pressure.

The activating compound for any of the above described arresters and can also vary. In one implementation compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium or sodium silicate in an amount of about 20 to about 60 by weight iii titanium powder in an amount of about 5 to about 25 by weight iv sodium carbonate in an amount of about 5 to about 15 by weight and v cesium chloride in an amount of about 10 to about 20 by weight.

In another implementation compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium or sodium silicate in an amount of about 20 to about 60 by weight iii titanium powder in an amount of about 5 to about 25 by weight iv sodium carbonate in an amount of about 5 to about 15 by weight and v sodium bromide in an amount of about 10 to about 20 by weight.

In a further implementation compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium silicate in an amount of about 30 to about 60 by weight iii sodium bromide in an amount of about 20 to about 25 by weight and iv calcium titanium oxide in an amount of about 5 to about 10 by weight.

In still another implementation compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium or sodium silicate in an amount of about 20 to about 60 by weight iii titanium powder in an amount of about 5 to about 25 by weight iv calcium titanium oxide in an amount of about 5 to about 15 by weight and v sodium bromide in an amount of about 10 to about 20 by weight.

In still a further implementation compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight 13.2 ii potassium metasilicate in an amount of about 10 to about 20 by weight 17.6 iii aluminum silicon powder in an amount of about 5 to about 20 by weight 13.2 iv sodium carbonate in an amount of about 5 to about 20 by weight 15.4 and v cesium chloride in an amount of about 25 to about 45 by weight 40.6 .

In yet another implementation compound includes i nickel powder in an amount of about 10 to about 35 by weight ii potassium silicate in an amount of about 30 to about 60 by weight iii sodium chloride in an amount of about 20 to about 25 by weight and iv barium titanium oxide in an amount of about 5 to about 10 by weight.

According to the above described activating compounds actual igniting and extinguishing properties of the surge arrester are at least substantially ensured by the potassium silicate sodium silicate or potassium metasilirate component combination with gas filling e.g. a gas filling including hydrogen. Other components such as cesium chloride and sodium bromide in combination with sodium carbonate and calcium titanium oxide stabilize the DC sparkover voltage. The nickel powder component helps to guarantee good extinguishing behavior before and after loading. Cesium chloride and sodium bromide halides used with a oxidizing agent such as sodium carbonate calcium titanium oxide or barium titanium oxide help to eliminate breakdown voltage delays during dark testing storage. The halides in essence eliminate the need of radio activity for a pre ionization source such as tritium.

Titanium and aluminum powder both transitional metals or oxygen getters are readily oxidized by the above agents at temperature during brazing which then acts as an electron source e.g. CaTiO CaO TiO Ti CaO Ca TiO

The sodium or potassium silicates are water glasses that act as a binder to hold the other elements together before and after furnacing.

Surge arresters and each have a good current carrying capacity under alternating current e.g. 60 times 1A 1000 volts AC 1 second duration and under unipolar pulsed current e.g. 1500 times 10A wave 10 1000 microsecond even at temperatures to e.g. 40 C. to 65 C. while maintaining a low sparkover surge voltage e.g. at 100 volts microsecond lower than 600V a constant extinguishing voltage and a constant DC sparkover voltage.

Referring now to two embodiments of ink jetting ignition stripe systems are illustrated. illustrates a demand mode ignition striping system . Demand mode system supplies ignition striping material from a source . In one embodiment striping material from source is maintained under ambient pressure. In such case striping material is e.g. gravity fed from source to a nozzle . Alternatively striping material within reservoir is pressure fed from source to nozzle . Here striping material within nozzle is able to reach atmospheric pressure before being acted upon by a force which causes nozzle to eject droplets in a discrete volume.

In either system or the material for droplets and stripes in one embodiment includes graphite. Advantageously however the material is not limited to graphite and instead can include any suitable conductive or semiconductive non graphite materials such as copper powder dispersed in a liquid vehicle and binding agent. Inks used to form film resistor elements would also be suitable for droplets and stripes . Further conductive film inks diluted to increase the resistivity of the material could be suitable for droplets and stripes .

As illustrated nozzle defines or includes an orifice and a nozzle chamber . Droplets of striping material exit nozzle chamber and orifice and are deposited onto an inner surface of one of the housings and discussed above for convenience housings and are hereafter referred to as housing . Also inner surface is illustrated for convenience as being straight with respect to the direction of motion of inner surface of housing . As shown above housing in an embodiment is at least substantially cylindrical. Inner surface can therefore instead be at least substantially cylindrical wherein the direction of motion shown by the arrow is a rotational direction when deploying a radially extending stripe or the width of an axially extending stripe. With a cylindrical housing inner surface in the direction of motion is at least substantially straight when translating the housing to deploy an axially extending stripe . System as shown below can deploy radially axially or diagonally extending stripes.

Formation of droplets for demand mode system of includes a volumetric change in the striping material within nozzle chamber of nozzle . In the illustrated embodiment the volumetric change in the striping material is induced by a voltage pulse provided by driver to an energy source which is coupled with e.g. adhered welded fastened to or pressed within nozzle such that energy source is in contact with the ignition striping material. Energy source can be a piezoelectric transducer or a resistor such as a thin film resistor both of which transfer energy to the material located within chamber . Energy source can be one or more of a thermal ultrasonic or radio frequency energy source.

System includes a microprocessor not illustrated which operates with a memory such as a random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM which stores one or more ignition striping pattern. Upon a command to execute for example i one of the patterns ii one of the patterns multiple times or iii two or more patterns in sequence the microprocessor recalls the appropriate one or more pattern from memory and runs the pattern. The microprocessor sends data making up the pattern e.g. striping character data to driver . Driver converts the data into voltage pulses represented schematically by pulse train in seen at energy source as appropriate so that energy source energizes the striping material within chamber to produce droplets at the required time and frequency.

In an embodiment demand system can produce droplets in a frequency range of zero hertz Hz to 25 000 Hz. Varying the time between the leading edges of the pulses of pulse train varies the frequency of droplets in system . Also in an embodiment system can produce droplets in an average diameter range of 15 to 150 meters. The time that a given pulse is positive i.e. the time during which positive voltage is applied to energy source for the pulse varies the size of the droplets in system .

System is advantageous in one respect because the striping patterns e.g. the ones shown below in connection with can be formed and stored digitally making pattern formation e.g. via computer aided design CAD capable of being downloaded directly via a microprocessor to driver . The stored patterns also create highly accurate and repeatable patterns of ignition stripes on surface of housing . The flexibility of CAD also improves the ability to tailor one or more particular ignition stripe pattern for a particular application.

Demand jetting of system of is advantageous in another respect because all or almost all droplets generated are used virtually eliminating wasted ignition striping material. Reducing waste may have environmental as well as cost benefits depending upon the material used for ignition stripes .

Because mechanical control of droplets in system occurs at nozzle via the energy input from source it is desirable to maintain the pressure of the striping material within chamber of nozzle at atmospheric pressure before being energized by source . This way the gas bubble or volumetric change formed within chamber of nozzle due to source does not have to fight a positive material pressure. On the other hand the ambient pressure storage of the striping material may cause system to be slower than a continuous system discussed next in connection with .

Referring now to continuous system supplies ignition striping material again in a reservoir or source . Here striping material within reservoir is pressure fed via pump from source to nozzle . Pump may be any suitable liquid pump such as a positive displacement or peristaltic pump. Striping material within nozzle is maintained at a positive pressure until exiting chamber through orifice of nozzle .

Droplets of a designated size e.g. 20 to 500 microns are again deposited on an inner surface of housings . The axis of motion of surface is out of the page in . Again surface is illustrated for convenience as being at least substantially straight. If housing is cylindrical given the axis of motion of surface will alternatively be curved in when translating housing to deploy i the length of an axially extending stripe or ii the width of a radially extending stripe. Inner surface will be at least substantially straight as shown in the view of when rotating housing to i deploy the length of a radially extending stripe or ii the width of an axially extending stripe.

In continuous system the striping material liquid exists orifice of nozzle as a continuous stream. The continuous stream of material passes through a charging electrode system that creates pressure oscillations of constant frequency. The oscillations separate the material stream into uniform droplets which can be formed in significantly higher frequencies than with demand system . In particular the stream enters an electrostatic field or charging field which separates and charges the droplets . A second high voltage field or deflection field directs the droplets to i a desired portion of surface or ii as desired into a droplet collector .

System also includes a microprocessor not illustrated which operates with a memory such as a random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM which stores one or more ignition striping pattern. Upon a command to execute for example i one of the patterns ii one of the patterns multiple times or iii two or more patterns in sequence the microprocessor recalls the appropriate one or more pattern from memory and runs the pattern. Data making up pattern e.g. character data are sent to a charge driver . Driver converts the data into positive or negative charges of varying amounts. Driver communicates with the charging field or charge electrode which applies the desired charge to the droplets formed within the charge electrode . The particular charge when acted upon by deflection field determines whether the corresponding droplet will be deposited on a particular part of surface or be sent instead to droplet collector .

In an embodiment system can produce droplets in a frequency range of zero hertz Hz to one MHz. Driver and transducer drive the drops and control their frequency. Also in an embodiment system can produce droplets in an average diameter range of about 20 to about 500 microns. In an embodiment the size of the particles is determined by the size of the stream exiting nozzle which is in turn determined by the amount of energy applied by driver and energy source to the striping fluid within chamber of nozzle .

System is also advantageous because the striping patterns e.g. the ones shown below in connection with can be formed and stored digitally making CAD drawn patterns able to be downloaded directly via a microprocessor to charge driver . The stored patterns also create highly accurate and repeatable patterns of ignition stripes on surface of housing . The flexibility of CAD also improves the ability to tailor one or more particular ignition stripe pattern for a particular application.

One suitable apparatus for system is provided by MicroFab Technologies Inc Plano Tex. and marketed under the name Jetlab .

Referring now to an embodiment of the motion control equipment useable with systems and to produce the axially radially and or diagonally extending ignition stripes and associated patterns is illustrated. For reference certain components from system and shown and described above in connection with are shown again in . In particular energy source or transducer is shown fixed to a mechanical ground . Ignition striping material is gravity fed or pumped from supply through a tube to transducer . Transducer or energy source contacts and heats or otherwise adds energy to the striping material as described above.

In the illustrated embodiment nozzle includes a thin tube e.g. which extends horizontally. At its distal end nozzle defines an orifice through which droplets are projected. In the illustrated embodiment droplets are projected downwardly to take advantage of gravity. In an alternative embodiment droplets are project laterally upwardly or at any other desired angle relative to a horizontal axis. In still another alternative embodiment nozzle defines multiple orifices located in line or spaced radially apart enabling parallel production of droplets and stripes .

The apparatus of may be used with either demand mode system or continuous mode system as desired. For clarity charge electrode and high voltage deflection plates are shown. Those apparatuses are coupled to mechanical ground via droplet collector in the illustrated embodiment. Charge electrode and high voltage deflection plates can alternatively be coupled or held in place independently if desired. It should be appreciated that in demand mode system charge electrode high voltage deflection plates and droplet collector are not used.

Housing referring again collectively to housings A B is rotated to produce the length of radially extending ignition stripes or the width of axially extending ignition stripes via motor . Housing is translated to produce the length of axially extending ignition stripes or the width of radially extending stripes via motor . Motors and in one embodiment are stepper or DC servo type motors which can be controlled very accurately. Cables and extend from motors and respectively to drivers not illustrated . The drivers in turn receive pulsed or on off voltage signals produced via an executed motion control program stored in a computer memory. The CAD automation for the production of droplets is combined with automated motion control programs for motors and to yield an overall computer controlled highly accurate and repeatable striping system or .

Motors and each include an output shaft and respectively. Output shaft is coupled via coupler to a shaft of a housing holder . Coupler in the illustrated embodiment is flexible so as to allow slight misalignment between output shaft and shaft of housing holder . The flexible nature of coupler also helps to reduce backlash which is a positional error associated with high precision stepper or servo type motors a similar coupler can be used with the rotational to translational ball or lead screw used with motor to reduce backlash .

Housing holder is constructed to hold housing firmly but removably. In the high output automated system housing is readily inserted into and removed from holder . In the illustrated embodiment a plunger is held slidingly inside a port of holder . Port is attached to a tube . Tube at its other end connects to a second port extending from a flange of holder . An aperture through port extends through the back of flange . The back of flange seals via o rings and to a non rotating pneumatic plenum . Plenum defines or includes a port which is attached sealingly to a tube extending from a positive and negative pneumatic source. Plenum as illustrated is fixed to and translates with block . Motor as illustrated is likewise fastened to and translates with block .

In the illustrated embodiment to fix housing removably within holder positive pressure is applied from the source through tube and into plenum which creates a ring of pressurized air. That ring of pressurized air also extends through port of flange and into tube pushing plunger against the outer surface of housing forcing the housing against the opposing inner wall of holder . It should be appreciated that while a single plunger is shown for convenience multiple such plungers may be provided and spaced apart about the housing e.g. evenly at 45 90 or 180 from each other as determined by the total number of plungers ports and tubes used .

As flange of holder is rotated about the horizontal axis of output shaft of motor the aperture or port is maintained in pneumatic communication with the pressurized air within plenum due to a circular opening defined by the surface of plenum facing flange . O rings and seal about either side of circular opening to maintain the integrity of the positive and negative pressures maintained at different times within plenum .

When the ignition striping for a particular housing is completed the pneumatic source switches and evacuates plenum and above described associated pneumatic system pulling plunger or multiple plungers away from the housing. A stop may be provided inside tube so that plunger becomes seated away from but near the cylindrical holding portion of holder . With plunger pulled away from housing the housing can be readily removed from holder via a mechanical and or pneumatic removing apparatus not illustrated . The plenum and mating flange of holder it should be appreciated provide a pneumatic slip ring which enables a constant positive or negative pressure to be applied to plunger as the plunger and holder are rotated via motor

As discussed above motor is coupled to sliding block . Sliding block slides within a pair of guides one shown connected to mechanical ground . Sliding block includes or defines a threaded opening which accepts threaded shaft . Threaded shaft or ball screw is coupled at one end e.g. via a suitable coupler to output shaft of motor . Motor as illustrated is also fixed to mechanical ground . Threaded shaft or ball screw as illustrated is fixed at its other end rotatably to a bearing or pillow block . Bearing or pillow block is likewise fixed to mechanical ground .

As motor spins output shaft and threaded shaft or ball screw turn clockwise or counterclockwise. That rotation in combination with the threaded engagement between shaft and the threaded hole of block causes block to translate towards or away from nozzle depending on the direction of rotation of motor . The rotational to translational motion conversion controls the translational motion of holder held in holder high accurately and repeatably with respect to fix nozzle and orifice of nozzle . This translational positioning system is used to deposit ignition stripes repeatedly and accurately via droplets of ignition striping material existing orifice to set i the length of a translationally or axially extending stripe or ii the thickness of a radially extending stripe on the interior of housing .

At the same time or at different times highly accurate and repeatable motor precisely controls the rotational motion and position of holder and housing held removably fixed therein via the pneumatic apparatus described above. Such highly accurate and repeatable rotational motion and positioning of the housing with respect to fixed nozzle and associated orifice enables ignition stripes to be disposed highly accurately repeatably and radially within the housing to set i the thickness of an axially or translationally extending stripe or ii the length of a radially extending stripe.

It should also be appreciated that the apparatus disclosed in connection with can be configured and programmed to rotate motors and simultaneously or sequentially to dispense or deposit diagonally axially and radially extending stripes . The motion control apparatus of in combination with the demand and continuous mode ignition striping of deposition systems and described above provide a highly flexible automated repeatable and accurate system for depositing ignition stripes in a variety of patterns and directions on the interior of housing .

It should be appreciated that at least a portion of the motion control could alternatively move nozzle with respect to housing as opposed to purely moving housing with respect to a stationary nozzle . For example energy source and nozzle could be mounted to a translating block similar to block which translates via the ball screw arrangement with respect to housing and holder which would be at least held translationally fixed.

Referring now to various examples of striping patterns are illustrated produced via the above described apparatus are illustrated. It should be appreciated that the patterns of are for illustration purposes only serve as examples and in no way limit the scope and spirit of the claims appended hereto. Each of the patterns in show a housing such as housing as if the housing had been cut along an axial line at 0 or 360 and opened into a flat. in particular show the inner surfaces of housings in the flat. It should be appreciated that while housing is shown for simplicity the same patterns or similar patterns may be applied to the other housing discussed above such as housing and housing and . For convenience degree markings from 0 to 360 are shown.

Each of the ignition striping patterns shown include axially extending stripes. That is the stripes extend toward the electrodes not shown which are connected to the upper and lower edges of housings when in their enclosed cylindrical or other shape. It should be appreciated however as discussed above that the ignition stripes are additionally or alternatively radially disposed or diagonally disposed. Further it should be appreciated that translational and rotational motion are required regardless to i produce a stripe having a width greater than one droplet and ii register the housing for the next stripe.

Referring now to a first example pattern of stripes and are illustrated. Stripes are end stripes that extend to the electrode mating ends of housing . Assuming a cylindrical housing to have inside diameter of 3.7 mm circumference C of about 11.6 mm and a length L of 5 mm the following dimensions for stripes and provide a relative measure of the length and width of stripes referring collectively to stripes and with respect to the dimensions C and L of housing . As discussed such relative comparison is for purposes of example only and is not intended to limit the scope and spirit of the claims.

In the example of end stripes have overall dimensions of 1.5 mm in the L direction and 0.5 mm in the C direction. In one embodiment stripe which appears to the naked eye as a continuous stripe is produced by divided the overall dimensions into grids. Here for example the 1.5 mm length can be divided into segments of 0.1 mm each. The 0.5 mm circumference dimension can be divided into five equal sections of 0.1 mm producing an overall 15 by 5 grid pattern wherein each grid location is at least substantially a 0.1 mmsquare. Each square is filled via the one of the systems described above for example filled in by ten droplets . Each droplet can for example produce a spot within its associated grid of about 60 meters in diameter. Thus each 0.1 mmsquare grid is filled with ten droplet spots of approximately 60 meters in diameter. Of course these numbers are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the scope and spirit of the claims.

Similarly center stripes have an overall dimension of 2 mm by 0.5 mm. This area is divided into a 20 by 5 grid wherein each grid location is again 0.1 mmsquare. Again each grid location is filled with ten droplets each creating a spot on inner surface of housing within the associated grid of about 61 meters in diameter.

The ignition stripe pattern of can be tailored for a particular arrester application. That is the performance characteristics for an arrester having seven end stripes versus two end stripes and five center stripes may be slightly or appreciable different holding all other variables constant.

Center stripes of have overall dimensions for example of 20 mm by 0.1 mm which are each divided into a 20 by 1 grid pattern wherein each grid location is a 0.1 mm by 0.1 mm square filled with e.g. ten spots per grid location. The performance characteristics for an arrester having two thin end stripes and five thin center stripes may be slightly or appreciable different for an arrester having two wider end stripes and five wider center stripes holding all other variables constant.

Referring now to two rows of stripes and respectively each extend from the middle portion of housing to an edge of the housing. These end stripes as well as end stripes shown above in connection with can be in electrical communication with the electrodes e.g. electrodes and shown above in connection with . In such a case the two rows in create small gaps between the inner ends of each ignition stripe pair. Each of the ignition stripes and has overall dimensions for example of a 2 mm by 0.5 mm rectangle which is divided into twenty five 0.1 mm by 0.1 mm squares each receiving e.g. ten droplets of striping material.

Referring now to the ignition stripe pattern described above in connection with is repeated except that each stripe and is narrowed to a single grid location having 0.1 mm width. Stripes and at their outer edges can nevertheless be in electrical connection with the electrodes attached to housing . In each stripe is located radially approximately 90 from its two adjacent stripes. In the 90 pattern is broken in two places by the end stripes . It should be appreciated that radial registration of stripes as well as axial registration shape and size of the stripes can be controllably varied to provide the desired electrical characteristics.

Referring now to a different type of striping pattern is illustrated. illustrates alternating rows of stripes and wherein each stripe is located radially approximately 90 from the next stripe. Each stripe and is or includes a series of striping spots. Each spot for example can be 0.6 mm in diameter. Each stripe and includes three spots placed in a 2.5 mm line where each spot includes five hundred droplets . The spots of stripes and and the spaces between the spots in an embodiment are visible to the naked eye.

Referring now to the spots described above in connection with stripes and of are extended across length L of housing . Each stripe of accordingly includes five spots of the dimensions described above.

It should appreciated from the examples in that the apparatus described can create uniquely shaped sized oriented and patterned ignition stripes which heretofore were not available via the traditional pencil striping process. Furthermore as explained above these patterns can each be stored in memory and recalled as needed for a particular arrester. Still further the systems described above can create stripes having a more robust thickness e.g. via applying multiple droplets to the same portion of the housing.

Referring now to ignition stripes produced via pencil striping and ink jetting are contrasted. In particular the ink jetted stripe produces a shape that is more accurate with respect to the desired shape of the stripe and consequently is more repeatable then the pencil stripes. The ink jetted stripe is also more continuous and uniform wherein the pencil stripe is more porous and prone to disruptions along the pencil stripe. It has also been observed that the pencil stripes tend to be flaky and have relatively thinner thicknesses leading to poor performance. Further there is a potential that a portion of the flaky ignition stripe can come free from the stripe and contact the admissive material further hampering performance.

The spacing or registration between pencil stripes is also less controllable and therefore less accurate and repeatable than the spacing achieved by the ink jetting and motion control apparatus described above. Accordingly Applicants believe that the ink jetting method not only has processing advantages it results in improved ignition stripes .

It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.

