---

title: Method and system for providing a voice review
abstract: A method for evaluating an entity that includes identifying an entity identifier for the entity, recording a voice review for the entity associated with the entity identifier, and submitting the voice review and the entity identifier to a review framework.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489438&OS=08489438&RS=08489438
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08489438
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060331
---
When a consumer receives service at a business establishment such as at a restaurant or a electronics store the user forms an opinion about the service received. For example a user may receive exceptional or poor service which may influence the consumer s willingness to return for that service at that particular location of the business establishment. Consumer opinions may also influence others to whom the consumer provides his her opinion e.g. friends family etc. . Today with websites that specialize in posting consumer reviews of business establishments in the service industry consumers that receive any type of service are able to provide his or her opinion to any other current or potential consumer of the same or similar type of service e.g. vacation spots restaurants retail store services guest speakers at business conventions etc. .

Generally to provide feedback a consumer may use an online database that collects rating information regarding a particular business establishment at a location. More specifically a consumer typically uses a computer or other electronic device to provide feedback to a database that collects and displays rating information related to a service received at a particular location or at a business establishment located at a particular location .

For example consider the scenario in which a consumer is dining at a restaurant. The consumer typically forms an opinion while eating and waits until after the meal has completed and after retuning home to provide a review of the restaurant for other potential consumers. Conventionally this involves the consumer posting his her opinion about the quality of the food the ambiance of the restaurant etc. on a website using a personal computer from his her home or office. Occasionally a consumer may attempt to show emotion behind the review by providing a written review using capital letters and or extreme words.

As another example consider the scenario in which a participant attends a convention with multiple guest speakers at different times of the day and several booths set up for different services being offered. In this case the participant may wish to rate the different booths based on a set of criteria or rate the guest speakers on the quality of the presentation. Typically the participant may offer his her opinion after the convention has completed by providing evaluations cards or surveys that are taken by the organization that set up the convention. Alternatively the participant may post ratings of the convention in general on a website.

Most consumers that provide reviews about an entity often have a strong emotion regarding the business establishment. Specifically consumers who do not have a strong emotion about the service received at the entity rarely have the desire to spend the time necessary to review the business establishment. For example a consumer who receives poor service at a restaurant often provides a review of the restaurant. Likewise user who receives exceptional service also provides a review the restaurant. However users who receive acceptable or slightly better than average service often do not provide a review of the service received at the restaurant.

When a person i.e. an evaluator is attempting to evaluate an entity using the reviews provided by consumers the evaluator must shift though multiple reviews and evaluate the business establishment using solely the text of the review provided. Specifically using only the text of the review for the business establishment the evaluator must determine the helpfulness accuracy veracity tone etc. of the review. Ultimately the consumer makes a decision whether to consume the service offered by the business establishment based on the review.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for evaluating an entity that includes identifying an entity identifier for the entity recording a voice review for the entity associated with the entity identifier and submitting the voice review and the entity identifier to a review framework.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for evaluating an entity that includes submitting a search request that includes a search criteria receiving an evaluation list matching the search criteria selecting a voice review using the evaluation list wherein the voice review is associated with the entity and processing the voice review to determine an action related to the entity.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a data structure for a review map that includes a first element that includes an entity identifier of an entity a second element that includes a voice review of the entity and a third element that includes a voice review identifier associated with the voice review wherein at least one selected from a group consisting of the first element the second element and the third element are accessed within a review framework to evaluate the entity.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for providing information about an entity that includes a review map for receiving a plurality of voice reviews associated with the entity and a review engine configured to receive a selection of a selected voice review of the plurality of voice reviews obtain the selected voice review from the review map and output the selected voice review for the entity.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system to provide review and evaluation of an entity. Specifically embodiments of the invention use voice reviews to provide the information about the entity. A reviewer in virtually any location may generate a voice review of the entity at a time closer to receiving the service from the entity being reviewed.

In one or more embodiments of the invention an entity corresponds to any type of good service organization or other such item that may be evaluated by a consumer of the item. For example an entity may correspond to a non profit organization software a retailer a product a business establishment a service company or any other such item. Each entity may be associated with one or more attributes not shown . An attribute corresponds to a descriptive component of the entity. For example an attribute may correspond to a physical location amount of the entity e.g. retail price etc. an entity category i.e. the type of entity etc. In the example an entity may have the attributes of a location e.g. the greater bay area of California an entity category e.g. seafood restaurants and average price of a meal.

In one or more embodiments of the invention an entity is associated with a reviewer . A reviewer corresponds to a user that has experience with the entity . For example the reviewer may have used the entity received a service from the entity invested in the entity etc. In one or more embodiments of the invention the reviewer corresponds to a social reviewer. The social reviewer is classified as someone that is a third party not affiliated with the entity or a company that reviews entities. Further except for promotional material a social reviewer does not receive compensation for the review or review entities professionally.

A reviewer device is typically used by the reviewer to review the entity in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention the reviewer device corresponds to hardware and or software required to obtain the review on a recording medium e.g. electronic signals magnetic signals any type of memory etc . For example the reviewer device may correspond to a cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA landline based phone microphone video camera computer a voice review specific device or any other such device. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the reviewer device may be owned by the reviewer associated with the entity or associated with a third party.

Further the reviewer device may include a user interface not shown or include functionality to provide access to a user interface. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user interface includes functionality to identify the reviewer and entity and obtain a voice review.

Continuing with the reviewer device is disposed between the reviewer and a review framework in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The review framework corresponds to a backend portion of the system which includes functionality to manage the system. Specifically the review framework includes functionality to receive a voice review from a reviewer device . Accordingly in one or more embodiments of the invention the review framework includes an application programming interface and or user interface not shown to help facilitate such functionality. The review framework also includes a review map review engine and an identity manager in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Each of these components is described below.

A review map corresponds to a storage unit e.g. file system database directory server disks or any other storage system for voice reviews. Accordingly the review map includes a least one voice review a voice review identifier an entity identifier and an entity rating in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention.

A voice review corresponds to an auditory review of an entity . In one or more embodiments of the invention the voice review is spoken by the reviewer and maintained by the review map in an audio format. Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention the audio format of the voice review corresponds to a .wav file .mpg file or any other format that includes functionality to maintain human voice inflections.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention a voice review may also include a video component as well as an audio component or may correspond to only the video component. Specifically the voice review may not only include the voice of the reviewer but also the physical image of the reviewer . In such embodiments the voice review may be stored in a format that allows for maintaining audio video files. Alternatively one skilled in the art will appreciate that the voice review may be maintained in textual format and only received in auditory format.

The voice review is associated with a voice review identifier in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The voice review identifier uniquely identifies the voice review . The voice review identifier may correspond to an alphanumeric string an error code that is obtained from the voice review or any other such device that identifies the voice review .

The voice review is also associated with an entity identifier and an entity rating in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The entity identifier corresponds to a device that identifies the entity which is the subject of the review. Specifically the entity identifier may correspond to the name a bar code a store unit number or any other identification mechanism for identifying the entity .

The entity rating corresponds to a rating identifying how positively or negatively a reviewer feels about the entity . Specifically the entity rating may correspond to a star rating system numeric value rating system or any other such rating system known to those skilled in the art. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the entity rating is optional and therefore may be associated with all part or none of the voice reviews.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the review map also includes a voice review rating not shown . A voice review rating corresponds to a rating of the voice review itself from any reviewer that did not create the voice review . Specifically the voice review rating may identify how reliable the voice review and the reviewer associated with the voice review are to the person listening to the voice review . The voice review rating may also correspond to a rating system or to a voice or text review not shown of the voice review .

Continuing with the review framework of the review map is operatively connected to a review engine in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The review engine corresponds to a logical component that includes functionality to manage the review map . In one embodiment of the invention the review engine includes a mapping engine and a language filter .

The mapping engine includes functionality to retrieve and store at least one voice review . Further in one or more embodiments of the invention the mapping engine includes functionality to identify the entities that correspond to a query received from an evaluator described below . For example a query may specify a collection of attributes. The mapping engine may also include functionality to identify the entities having the specified attributes and obtain the voice reviews corresponding to the identified entities. Further the mapping engine may also include functionality to obtain information such as a specification frequently asked question FAQ sheet text review etc. for the entities from the review map .

In addition in one or more embodiments of the invention the review engine includes a language filter . A language filter includes functionality to review the voice review and remove all or part of the voice review that contains any compromised information e.g. inappropriate language or marketing information received directly from the entity etc. . Alternatively rather than removing any portion of the voice review the language filter may include functionality to attach a language rating such as G PG R etc. to all or a portion of the voice review that contains the compromised information.

The review engine may also include a text converter not shown . A text converter includes functionality to translate the voice of the reviewer into text. By translating the voice review into text a reviewer may submit a voice review using a communication device e.g. a phone without requiring that an evaluator device described below include a speaker.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the review framework also contains an identity manager . The identity manager includes functionality to store and manage a reviewer identity and an evaluator identity . The reviewer identity may include access information e.g. username password or other such information to log into the framework for the reviewer and or reviewer device . Further the review identity may also include preference information for the reviewer . For example the reviewer identity may include information about a user interface for the reviewer or any other such information.

In addition in one or more embodiments of the invention the reviewer identity may include earned promotional values not shown for the reviewer . An earned promotional value corresponds to coupons entrances into drawings etc. that a reviewer can obtain by submitting a voice review.

An evaluator identity may include access information for the evaluator described below and or evaluator device . Further the evaluator identity may include preference information for the evaluator . For example the evaluator identity may include information about a user interface for the evaluator a location of the evaluator the type of entities in which an evaluator is interested or any other such information. Further in one or more embodiments of the invention the evaluator identity may also include billing information. For example the review framework may provide a billable service to evaluators and or entities.

Continuing with an evaluator corresponds to any individual that seeks to evaluate the entity and perform an action related to the entity . For example an evaluator may correspond to a shopper an investor a potential member an interested user etc.

An evaluator device is typically used by the evaluator to evaluate the entity in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention the evaluator device corresponds to hardware and or software required to output a voice review on a recorded medium e.g. electronic signals magnetic signals any type of memory etc . For example the evaluator device may correspond to a cellular phone personal digital assistant PDA landline based phone global positioning system GPS any device with a speaker computer a voice review specific device or any other such device. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the evaluator device may be owned by the evaluator associated with the entity or associated with a third party.

Further the evaluator device may include a user interface not shown or include functionality to provide access to a user interface. In one or more embodiments of the invention the user interface includes functionality to identify the evaluator and provide a mechanism for an evaluator to query the review framework for a voice review corresponding to the entity .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that while shows one type of configuration for voice reviews other configurations are also possible. For example in alternative embodiments of the invention the reviewer device and the evaluator device may correspond to the same physical device. Further the entity may be directly connected to the review framework . Additionally components of the identity manager may be located on each of the reviewer device and the evaluator device respectively.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that while shows a centralized system for reviewing and evaluating an entity a peer to peer system may also be used in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. For example each voice review may be physically located on the reviewer device and or evaluator device . Thus the voice reviews may be distributed between a reviewer and an evaluator from the aforementioned devices.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that rather than having a review framework for maintaining and accessing voice reviews a reviewer may record the voice review and share the voice reviews directly with the evaluator . In such scenario the review framework may not be required.

An entity is similar to the entity described in . Entity is associated with an entity marketer . An entity marketer corresponds to any type of marketing device for the entity in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. For example the entity marketer may correspond to a web page kiosk interactive hotline or any other type of marketing device for the entity . In one or more embodiments of the invention the entity marketer includes a voice review . For example the voice review may be referenced on a web page of the entity marketer played by a speaker or other such device on the entity marketer etc.

A voice review is similar to the voice review in . However in one or more embodiments of the invention voice review corresponds only to a positive review of the entity . Specifically only voice reviews that are positive about the entity are included in the entity marketer in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention.

A reviewer is similar to the reviewer described in . In one or more embodiments of the invention the reviewer is given promotional compensation for speaking the voice review . For example the reviewer may be entered in a drawing given coupons or given any other type of promotional items. Accordingly the voice review generated by the reviewer may be biased towards the entity .

The reviewer and the marketer are operatively connected to a reviewer device . The reviewer device is similar to the reviewer device of . In one or more embodiments of the invention the reviewer device is owned by the entity marketer or a person or business associated with the entity marketer . For example the reviewer device may correspond to an audio device that a marketing employee not shown associated with the entity uses to request and record a voice review .

Continuing with the evaluator is similar to the evaluator of . However the evaluator may evaluate the entity either passively or actively. Specifically rather than requesting the voice review the voice review may be automatically outputted for the evaluator regardless of a desire to evaluate the entity .

The evaluator is typically uses an evaluator device . The evaluator device is similar to the evaluator device of . In one or more embodiments of the invention the evaluator device is owned by the entity marketer or a person or business associated with the entity marketer . For example the evaluator device may correspond to an audio output device connected to the entity marketer. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the reviewer device and the evaluator device may correspond to the same physical device.

After the voice review is initiated a determination is made whether the voice review is an anonymous voice review Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The voice review is anonymous when the reviewer does not want to be identified. Determining whether the voice review is anonymous may be performed by requesting input from the user indicating whether the voice review is anonymous. Alternatively all voice reviews may be anonymous to protect the identity of the reviewer or all reviewers may be identified to ensure authenticity of the voice review.

If the voice review is not anonymous then the reviewer is identified Step . Identifying the voice review may be performed by requesting login information from the reviewer e.g. username and or password performing a speech analysis of the reviewer to determine the unique voiceprint of the reviewer identifying the reviewer device or performing virtually any other technique for identifying the reviewer.

Once the reviewer is identified or if the voice review is anonymous then the entity identifier of the voice review is determined Step . Determining the entity identifier of the voice review may be performed by requesting the information from the reviewer identifying a physical location of reviewer and extrapolating the entity identifier from the physical location etc. For example if the reviewer submits the voice review via a communication device e.g. a phone then the reviewer may be led through a series of questions to identify the entity. In another example the reviewer may be instructed to identify the entity while reviewing the entity. Using a text to speech conversion the entity identifier may be extrapolated from the voice review.

Continuing with the voice review is recorded Step . At this stage the reviewer provides input generally in the form of spoken words and the voice review created. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that recording the voice review may be performed at any stage after the voice review is initiated. For example the reviewer may record the voice review while at the location of the entity and then connect to the framework to be identified and to identify the entity while at home.

Further those skilled in the will appreciate that multiple reviewers may record the voice review. Specifically a single voice review may include voices from a two or more reviews.

Next a determination is made whether an entity rating is included with the voice review Step . The reviewer may generate an entity rating or the entity rating may be determined from the inflections and words used by the reviewer.

If an entity rating is included with the voice review then the entity rating is attached to the voice review Step . Specifically the entity rating is associated with the voice review in memory. For example the entity rating may be added to metadata associated with the voice review the voice review reference the entity rating etc.

Once the entity rating is attached to the voice review or if the entity rating is not included then the voice review is submitted to the review framework Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention a file containing the voice review and associated information is submitted to the review framework in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Alternatively sending the voice review to the review framework may be performed incrementally as the entity is reviewed. For example the user interface may be connected to the framework.

After the voice review is sent and received by the framework the voice review is processed by the framework Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Processing the voice review includes storing the voice review in a review map described above in connection with . In addition in one or more embodiments of the invention the voice review may be processed by such acts as filtering for inappropriate language and a converting the voice review from speech to text.

After the voice review is available for an evaluator then the entity can be evaluated by an evaluator. shows a flowchart of a method for evaluating an entity in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Initially the review framework is accessed Step . Accessing the review framework may be performed for example by an evaluator calling the framework e.g. using a communication device such as a phone etc. accessing the framework through a GPS opening a web page user interface of the framework or performing any other such technique.

Next a search request is submitted Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the search request specifies the attributes of the entity and or the voice review. For example the search request may specify that the evaluator is only interested in entities in a certain category or physically located in a certain location. As another example in the case in which an evaluator is an investor the search request may include a minimum amount of capital and maximum amount of debts of the entity.

In the scenario that the search request also includes parameters about the voice review the search request may also include a limitation on the type of inappropriate language in the voice review the type of natural human language of the voice review e.g. English Chinese German etc. or characteristics of the reviewer e.g. age socioeconomic background etc. .

After the search request is submitted an evaluation list is obtained that matches the search request Step . Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention the framework determines the entities matching the voice request and creates an evaluation list. The evaluation list is submitted back to the evaluator.

Next an entity from the evaluation list is selected to evaluate Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Specifically the evaluator selects an entity from the list. In order to select the entity from the list the evaluator may click on the entity type the entity name speak the entity name or perform any other similar technique. Alternatively with each entity in the evaluation list a listing of voice reviews may be displayed below the entity. In such scenario the evaluator is able to directly choose a voice review.

Continuing with after the entity is selected a determination is made whether a voice review is available for the entity Step . If a voice review is not available then any information that is available about the entity may be obtained by the evaluator.

Alternatively if voice reviews are available then a voice review is selected Step . The voice review may be selected by the evaluator requesting the voice review by clicking on a button associated with the voice review speaking an identifier associated with the voice review or performing any other technique know in the art for selecting items from a list.

Next the voice review is processed Step . Specifically the evaluator may listen to the voice review or perform any other similar action in relation to the voice review. At this stage the evaluator is able to listen to inflections of the voice of the reviewer and the type of voice of the reviewer. Specifically the evaluator is able to determine whether the reviewer is believable or fraudulent whether the reviewer is passionate about the review or other such information of the voice review. Further the evaluator is able to evaluate characteristics about the reviewer when the reviewer is reviewing. For example the evaluator may be able to determine gender educational level social level intoxication levels or any other such items that an individual can ascertain from a speech.

Continuing with after processing to the voice review a determination is made whether to save the voice review Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Specifically the evaluator may determine that the voice review should be easily accessible for a later time. For example the evaluator may decide to keep the voice review for a particular restaurant after deciding not to go immediately to the restaurant until a later date. If the evaluator decides to save the voice review the voice review is saved Step . The voice review may be saved locally on the evaluator device or a reference to the voice review may be added in a space associated with only the evaluator in the review framework.

Regardless of whether the voice review is saved a determination is made whether to share the voice review Step in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. Specifically the evaluator may decide to share the voice review with friends. For example if a group of people is determining where to go for lunch one of the people i.e. the evaluator may listen to a voice review about a possible restaurant and share the voice reviews with the group for everyone in the group to decide.

Accordingly if a determination is made to share the voice review then the voice review is shared Step . Specifically at this stage the evaluator may submit a list of people who should receive the voice review. Next the voice review may be sent to the list via email or phone or a reference to the voice review may be added to the review framework in a position that is associated with all of the people.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the actual user interface for the voice review may fluctuate. For example the user interface may be specific to the type of device accessing the voice review based on new knowledge about user interfaces or change for virtually any other reason. Accordingly the steps in may be performed in virtually any order skipped or new steps added based on the user interface.

After the entity marketer is accessed a list of voice reviews associated with the entity is reviewed Step . In one or more embodiments of the invention the entity marketer displays only favorable voice reviews in an easy to access manner. Next a selection of a voice review is submitted from the list of reviews Step . Alternatively all voice reviews may be playing. In particular a speaker associated with the entity marketer may simply play all review rather than waiting for a selection from the evaluator.

Next the evaluator obtains the voice review from the selection Step . Specifically the voice review may be automatically downloaded on the evaluator device played for the evaluator etc. After obtaining the voice review a determination is made whether another selection is submitted Step . If another selection is submitted then the evaluator obtains the next selection of a voice review from the list Step .

In the following example consider the case in which within a four block radius a city contains six Indian restaurants that have each been open for more than a year. In the course of the year patrons friends and family of the restaurants owners and the general public visit the restaurants. Because the restaurants are in competition for customers each restaurant owner asks customers to submit a voice review to a third party framework. The general public who are unhappy with the restaurant and know about the third party framework also submit voice reviews. In the example at least one member of the general public receives great service but finds the food substandard. Accordingly while eating the member calls the third party and submits the review.

Continuing with the example as voice reviews are being received voice review are listened to by evaluators and rated for authenticity. Accordingly voice reviews from friends and family member that show an obvious bias are removed in the course of the year.

At the end of the year a group of friends decides to have an evening in the city. In the middle of the trip to the city the group of friends decides that they are hungry and Indian food is ideal for such hunger. Accordingly the driver of the group turns on the GPS in the car and submits a request for Indian Restaurants in the area. Because the car is within the aforementioned four block radius the six restaurants are displayed on a map of the GPS. In order to narrow the results the driver requests that only the Indian restaurants with a waiting time less than 45 minutes are shown on the map.

Once the map is returned the map displays the four Indian restaurants that encompass all requirements of the driver. Accordingly the driver commands the GPS unit to play each voice review associated with each restaurant. As the group listens to the voice reviews the group is able to tell which reviews are fraudulent which wait staff is good which restaurant has the best atmosphere and food etc. Accordingly the group is able to more easily and accurately determine which restaurant to dine at based on expense wait staff food and atmosphere.

The invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a computer system includes a processor associated memory a storage device and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer may also include input means such as a keyboard and a mouse and output means such as a monitor . The computer system is connected to a local area network LAN or a wide area network e.g. the Internet not shown via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that these input and output means may take other forms.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. review engine identity manager review map may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape a file or any other computer readable storage device.

Embodiments of the invention allow for a reviewers and evaluators to easily review and evaluate entities. In particular barriers such as waiting to generate the review and typing time for a reviewer reviewing an entity are removed. Furthermore an evaluator of voice reviews may obtain the voice review left by the reviewer. With voice reviews an evaluator is able to listen to natural inflections in the voice to appreciate the review e.g. determine the emotion behind the review whether the review is fraudulent etc. . Moreover an evaluator is able to evaluate the entity while also subconsciously evaluating the reviewer.

Regardless of whether an entity marketer is used the voice review allows evaluators to determine the authenticity of the reviewer by the inflections in the voice. Further because the voice review is auditory both the reviewer and the evaluator may do other activities while speaking or listening to the voice review. For example a reviewer can call in the voice review using a cell phone while the reviewer is at the physical location of the entity. Thus reviewing and evaluating an entity may be performed anywhere using virtually any type of device

In addition because many of the natural barriers of formulating a review are removed entities and companies associated with the entities are able to obtain a voice reviews easily. Specifically the ease of submitting a voice review creates an environment in which a customer may be willing to submit feedback to the entity. Accordingly the entities and companies of the entities can improve the quality for their customers.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

