---

title: File sharing based on social network
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide for sharing files within a social network. Members of the social network are provided a set of virtual folders that indicates groups and other members that are authorized for file sharing. The folders are automatically maintained for the social network. In addition, various folders may be designated for different levels of access. For example, public folders may be accessible to anyone, while private folders could be restricted to one or members of the social network. The file sharing folders would be provided as part of the social network online service, and thus, are maintained without user configuration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08140506&OS=08140506&RS=08140506
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08140506
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061130
---
The present invention relates to online services and communications tools and more particularly to social networks.

In its short history Internet usage has been mainly driven by portals and search engines such as Yahoo and Google. Recently the rapid growth of social networking sites such as MySpace and Facebook has revealed a new trend of Internet usage. Social networking generally relates to services and tools that help users maintain and expand their circles of friends usually by exploiting existing relationships. Social networking sites have shown potential to become the places on the Internet where many people spend most of their time thus making these sites the main entry point for online activity. Often times these social networking sites can become the focal point of sharing information such as links multimedia music and the like.

In general social networking sites and other online services of the Internet offer a mix of features and tools such as message boards games journals or web logs blogs . One of the main features utilized by social network sites is file transfers and downloads.

File transfers in a network computer system is a well known concept. For example in the early days of the Internet file transfers were accomplished by connecting to a destination computer and executing a file transfer command e.g. FTP . This type of data transfer can be referred to as a client server model.

The client server model of data transfer has disadvantages and faults. For example if one server or several servers store copies i.e. mirrors of a file s these server s can be rapidly overwhelmed in response to a spike of popularity of the file s . Accordingly the user experience in obtaining these file s may be less than satisfactory.

Peer to peer P2P systems offer advantages over the traditional client server model. A P2P computer network is a network that relies primarily on the computing power and bandwidth of the participants in the network rather than concentrating it in a relatively low number of servers. P2P networks are typically used for connecting nodes via largely ad hoc connections. Such networks are useful for many purposes.

Although P2P networks can offer greater bandwidth and availability of files there are still drawbacks and disadvantages. For example since a selected file is distributed among the peers in a given P2P network a file download may not ever be completed if the peer that has the missing segment does not participate in the P2P network or is not online at the same time as the user. Moreover a user may not be ensured that a segment may be infected with malicious software malware such as spyware viruses etc. .

Accordingly there is need for a P2P network system for social network services that provides a measure of security as well as availability.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for sharing files within a social network. Members of the social network are provided a set of virtual folders that indicates groups and other members that are authorized for file sharing. The folders are automatically maintained for the social network. In addition various folders may be designated for different levels of access. For example public folders may be accessible to anyone while private folders could be restricted to one or members of the social network. The file sharing folders would be provided as part of the social network online service and thus are maintained without user configuration.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the invention which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Client provides a user interface for system . Client may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example client may be implemented on a personal computer workstation or terminal. In addition client may run under an operating system such as the LINUX operating system the Microsoft Windows operating system and the like. Client may also operate through an Internet browser application such as Firefox by Mozilla Internet Explorer by Microsoft Corporation or Netscape Navigator by Netscape Communications Corporation.

One skilled in the art will also recognize that client may be implemented with various peripheral devices such as a display one or more speakers and other suitable devices. Client may also be implemented with various peripherals for accepting input from a user such as a keyboard a mouse and the like. Although shows a number of clients system may include any number of clients.

Services are the applications and services that users of system already use. Services may be implemented on one or more servers that are well known to those skilled in the art. Rather than recreating functionality open overlay service merely interfaces services and allows users to seamlessly continue using the services such as social networking services instant messaging etc. that they currently use. Examples of services include iTunes Yahoo Music Engine MySpace Friendster AOL Instant Messenger Yahoo Messenger etc. Any sort of online service may be incorporated into the context provided by open overlay service .

Open overlay service serves as a social network service and stores manages and provides access control to the various services and social networks of clients . In general open overlay service is essentially a web site and application service that stores and forwards information shared by users as well as user profiles and social network information. Open overlay service may be hosted as a public instance similar in fashion to a service such as Wikipedia. In addition open overlay service may provide various application programming interfaces that have an open specification so that anyone can create an interface.

For example open overlay service may process requests to retrieve an object document image file web page and the like. Open overlay service may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example open overlay service may be implemented as a web site running on one or more servers that support various application programs and stored procedures.

The components of system may be coupled together via network . Network may comprise one or more networks such as a local area network the Internet or other type of wide area network. In addition network may support a wide variety of known protocols such as the transport control protocol and Internet protocol TCP IP and hypertext transport protocol HTTP .

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in open overlay service . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include the Linux operating system the UNIX operating system. In addition OS may operate in conjunction with other software such as an application server such as JBoss to implement various features of open overlay service .

Application server provides the logic for analyzing and managing the operations of open overlay service . As previously noted application server may be written in a variety of programming languages such as C C Java etc.

For example one responsibility of application server may be managing the various identities of the users of open overlay service . As noted previously a single person may have multiple identities that they use for various online services and social networks For example a person named John Smith may use jsmith domain.com as an identity one service but use smithj domain2.com as his identity on another service.

In one embodiment in order to track the various users of open overlay service application server may assign each user a unique identifier such as a numeric identifier. Application server may then utilize this unique identifier with the identity resources i.e. email address account names screen names etc. used by services to identify a person. In some embodiments application server generates a graph of each social network within open overlay service in terms of person s names and the identity resources from the point of view of a particular user based on what is trusted by that user.

For example given information about a person s name their unique identifier assigned by application server and associations to identity resources trusted by other users application server can generate a list of person names and identity resources i.e. email address account names etc. that should be visible to a particular user. Hence the particular user will only be allowed to see identity resources they happen to or only know about that user and identity resources that have been verified by application server . For example a user A may have a unique identifier of 2345 and email address 1 and email address 2 as identity resources. A user B may only know about email address 1 for user A. Meanwhile a user C may similarly only know about email address 2 for user A. Thus for user B application server will only allow user B to view and use email address 1 as an identity resource for user A. Likewise application server will only allow user C to view and use email address 2 as an identity resource for user A. However if user A subsequently explicitly indicates to application server that both users B and C can be trusted then users B and C will then be also allowed to view both email addresses 1 and 2 as well. The primary uses of this information by open overlay service may be for sharing a link with person by addressing that person either by an email address or by a short nickname or for viewing a list of persons in open overlay service that they think they know.

Application server may also determine what information of a user should be public or private. In some embodiments application server may default to making information public but provide an option such as a checkbox that allows the user to designate information as private. Application server may also employ per page settings such as all private or all public. Other privacy policies may be implemented by application server .

Application server may further provide various search features. For example application server may allow users to search for other users based on various criteria such as age gender school etc. Application server may also allow searches for various resources such as email addresses topics links etc.

Messaging server manages communications between open overlay service and clients via network . For example messaging server may be configured to periodically poll clients on a regular basis and have them request information from services . Messaging server may be implemented based on well known hardware and software and utilize well known protocols such as TCP IP hypertext transport protocol etc.

Messaging server may be configured to handle a wide variety of data and may handle data that is in any format. For example information from clients may be in the form of an extensible markup language XML file or a network location such as a uniform resource locator URL on the Internet. Alternatively messaging server may be configured to obtain information from services directly in a peer to peer fashion.

Messaging agent serves as an interface between open overlay service and online services and may operate to monitor the activity of clients at these services. In particular messaging agent may be a relatively small and focused computer application or bot that runs continuously in the background simultaneously for each of clients as other programs are being run and responds automatically to activity on services that may be of interest to clients such as new messages postings and the like.

Messaging agent may be created by open overlay service i.e. by application server for the benefit of the users at clients . Alternatively for example messaging server may send information to clients upon request perform automated searches or monitor messages or events at services .

In one embodiment messaging server and or messaging agent may work in conjunction to perform client side data scraping on services . Client side data scraping may be desirable in some instances where services refuse or block a direct interface with open overlay service . For example MySpace and AOL s instant messaging service may be implemented as one of services but is known to block proxy requests for a client.

Client side data scraping may be initiated by messaging server or using information provided by messaging server. Messaging server may poll client overlay client to trigger a request to one of services . Accordingly overlay client may cause one of service applications to interface with service and request data from that service such as web page refresh. Since the request originated from client service will provide a response. Overlay client may detect this response and forward it to messaging server . Messaging server may then pass this response. Of course the polling may be configured at overlay client based on information provided to messaging server .

Messaging server evaluates the response and determines if a notification event is needed. If notification is needed messaging server send a message to overlay client . The notification may then be displayed to the user using for example browser or service application .

One application of client side data scraping may be used to detect when messages or postings have been entered on one of services . For example on MySpace users often repeatedly refresh their pages in anticipation of receiving a post or message from a friend. With client side data scraping open overlay service may automatically perform this function and more conveniently indicate when the user has received activity on their MySpace page. This notification may appear in the form of a pop up bubble or may be displayed as a link on the user s page in open overlay service . Of course other applications of client side data scraping are consistent with the principles of the present invention.

Web server provides a communications interface between open overlay service clients and services . For example web server may be configured to provide information that indicates the status of client . Such communications may be based on well known protocols and programming languages such as HTTP TCP IP and Java. Interfaces provided by web server may be implemented using well known Internet technologies such as web pages which are well known to those skilled in the art.

User database maintains information identifying users and clients . User database may be implemented using well known database technology such as relational databases or object oriented databases.

For example user database may include information indicating one or more operating systems and applications installed on clients as well as services subscribed to by users. User database may also comprise information related to authenticating a user determining the respective rights of a user relative to other users. For example a user may select various groups or channels of content in which they are interested in receiving information. User database may further include information that indicates the permissions and delivery of the information to clients . Other information that may be included in user database may comprise information such as system and individual permissions of clients on services activation keys registration information and payment information such as credit card information .

Furthermore user database may include other information related to the manner in which open overlay service communicates with clients . For example this information may relate to periodicity of notifications email addresses format of the formation and the like. User database may include data structures to log the activities and transactions of its users. Activities such as recent links history of operations etc. that may be logged in user database are well known to those skilled in the art.

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in open overlay service . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include Mac OS by Apple Computer the Windows family of operating systems by Microsoft Corporation and the Linux operating system.

Overlay client maintains an inventory of the software and service applications installed on client and archives one or more states of activity on client . In some embodiments overlay client may be configured to periodically connect to open overlay service and perform various operations requested by open overlay service .

Browser is an application that runs on client and provides an interface to access information on network such as information on services . Browser may be implemented as well known programs such as Mozilla Firefox Microsoft Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator and the like.

Service applications run on client to support the services provided by services . For example service applications may be applications such as a browser an instant messaging client a music player such as iTunes and the like that are provided from services . Other examples for applications are well known to those skilled in the art.

User data cache provides a cache that indicates the activity of a user at client . For example user data cache may include information that indicates documents such as HTML pages images URL links web site access times and the like.

In order to illustrate some of the features of open overlay service that provide a live social context a protocol for establishing secure P2P storage with users of the social network service will now be described. In general users in a social network may indicate permissions and storage space to open overlay service that they pledge to the P2P storage infrastructure. Open overlay service may then establish a series of peer to peer contracts based on the permissions and storage space. Open overlay service may also represent this infrastructure as a virtual drive or folders.

In some embodiments clients use data connections such as the jive connection to know about all peers globally in open overlay service . Clients may then indicate storage space that is pledged as part of the P2P storage infrastructure.

In order to protect and secure the P2P storage infrastructure clients may encrypt files with a private key and use symmetric encryption. The original uploader may use public key cryptography brokered by open overlay service to encrypt the private key for each intended recipient. Accordingly the file uploaded into the P2P storage infrastructure is thus the same for all authorized users of open overlay service . Hence a per recipient distinct copy is unnecessary which would be case if open overlay service used a standard public key encryption scheme.

In some embodiments the symmetric key is a content hash of the uploaded file s contents. This allows the encrypted version of the file to be the same for any identical copy of the file. This feature also allows multiple encrypted copies of the file rather than requiring a single point of controlled uploads of a file from the P2P storage infrastructure. Open overlay service is configured to make the P2P storage infrastructure transparent by using the user identity and authentication concepts described above.

If needed open overlay service may allow anonymous peers to participate in the P2P storage infrastructure. For example network bandwidth across network may be limited for some of clients . Accordingly open overlay service may utilize services of other clients that have available resources to assist in sharing files. However in most instances open overlay service may be configured to avoid using anonymous peers.

In order to ensure redundancy and availability open overlay service may be configured to construct the P2P storage infrastructure using a hierarchical tree structure. For example each peer could connect to one peer further up a level in the tree and one peer on the same tier with a different parent node. In some embodiments open overlay service may utilize XMPP as the control protocol for setting up this tree structure.

Once the P2P storage infrastructure is in place open overlay service may then offer a virtual drive or folder for files that can be shared within a social network. In some embodiments this virtual drive or folder appears as an icon on clients desktop display and and inside it there are folders for social networks e.g. friends and family that files are shared with. In some embodiments open overlay service automatically maintains these drives or folders for the whole social network. In particular open overlay service may offer this feature with little or no user configuration. Instead it would offered as a standard service of the user s account with open overlay service and their membership to various social networks.

For example if a user places a file for sharing with a user then only that user would see that file. The user may also receive a notification indicating a new shared file has been uploaded. Open overlay service may also maintain public files for files that may be shared with anyone. Hence anyone on network could load the file. This feature could be useful for example for photo hosting and so forth.

Furthermore open overlay service may provide private files. If a file is uploaded to a private file then only authorized users could see that file. This feature may be useful for example to move files between two clients or for making a backup copy.

In some embodiments the file upload storage browsing is implemented in a web based way. In particular application server may provide a servlet implementing read only WebDAV and that allows a user to browse a file hierarchy via the DAV support in GNOME s Nautilus file manager. Of course embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on Microsoft Windows machines using for example Windows Network Places.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

