---

title: Business platform with networked, association-based business entity access management and active content website configuration
abstract: The invention provides a business platform, a business entity management system, and a software module that can be used in conjunction with the software service framework. The invention mimics actual business relationships between business entities, and uses a software service module to configure the business entities into a network that comprises at least three generations of business entities, wherein role dependent associations mimicking real life business relationships are established between the business entities. The invention provides management of active content in a website and allows modification of the content by different business entities. Control of the active content is determined by precedence of the business entities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07861309&OS=07861309&RS=07861309
owner: The Cobalt Group, Inc.
number: 07861309
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060501
---
This application claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 350 796 filed on Jan. 24 2003 and entitled BUSINESS PLATFORM WITH NETWORKED ASSOCIATION BASED BUSINESS ENTITY ACCESS MANAGEMENT AND ACTIVE CONTENT WEBSITE CONFIGURATION and which is hereby incorporated by reference.

 2003 Cobalt Group Inc. Seattle Wash. A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. 37 CFR 1.71 d .

The invention relates to software business platforms that provide a means for information sharing between separate business entities and or within these business entities. The invention further relates to web site configuration and content control by separate business entities.

In a rapidly changing high technology business environment where information management of the business organization is often a critical factor in maintaining competitiveness it has become increasingly necessary for businesses to adopt software business platforms in an effort to enable the efficient sharing of information within a corporation. Typically such platforms have a database that stores corporate information business application software for its business functions typically Finance Sales Marketing etc. a security or user access system that controls access to the information by a number of users that are assigned roles that permit or deny access to the information based on the assigned role of the individual and a system bus that provides an interface permitting the various components of the system to communicate with each other according to certain protocols. However in many instances these business platforms may have developed separately over time so that the various modules relating to business functions such as marketing and sales may have different configurations and may be coded in different software languages thereby complicating communication between the modules and adding complexity to information sharing between corporate divisions and the generation of reports for management. Further as business organizations grow in size complexity and need for more information sharing the business platforms and modules often lack sufficient scalability to keep pace.

The issues that pertain to intra business software platforms is further complicated when the business platform is one that serves a variety of separate business entities that may be independent corporations partnerships or other business entities and that may be hosted by a third party. For a variety of reasons it may be desirable for these separate and independent business entities to share information. For example in a franchise operation it may be desirable for franchisees that are independent corporations to share information with a franchisor and it may also be necessary for and desirable for franchisees in a regional area to share information between themselves with regard to certain functions such as marketing but perhaps not with regard to other functions such as finance. This would be further complicated if several franchise operations were to share the same platform hosted by a third party. Clearly information sharing between franchises would not be desired or allowed but some franchisees might hold multiple franchises. Accordingly the sharing of information is not only complicated due to the separate business entities involved but also the degree and extent of information sharing that is required.

Further in an inter business software platform that may be hosted by a third party it might be expected that the separate business entities may each have before hand developed their own business modules for example each might already have developed their own marketing sales accounting and web management modules before the advent of the hosted platform. There may be a considerable difference between the nature configuration language etc. of the modules between the businesses that must now share certain information. This presents highly complex integration and information sharing issues to be resolved.

Business entities participating in an inter business platform may share common web content on their individual websites with similar web content. Maintaining uniform and consist web content is an important aspect of marketing customer relationships and overall business strategy. This is especially true for franchises and related dealers of goods and services. The cost of developing web content is also reduced if it is distributed between related business entities. Given the amount of electronic transactions and research performed over the Internet web content may be the primary source of information about a business entity for some customers. Indeed a website may constitute most if not all of the interaction that a customer may have with a business entity.

Although websites for related business entities have common web content and a common layout some of the content may need to be altered for individual websites. As can be appreciated each business entity has considerations specific to their situation. Thus some web content needs to be accessible by different business entities for modification. However access and control of certain web content must be ensured to provide quality and uniformity to a customer base.

The invention provides a business platform having a unique business entity management module a business entity management system and a software module for controlling user access to and manipulation of information shared by users through a common platform.

The business platform of the invention includes a service framework that supports business applications and that is supported by at least one service module. The service module controls access and the extent of information manipulation by business entities who use the service framework through users with assigned roles.

In accordance with the invention the service module arrays the business entities as a user role dependent network of associated business entities by mimicking actual business relationships. The network is contextual in that the associations are role dependent and vary depending upon the user s role reflecting the real world circumstance that various business functions need different information often obtained from different sources. In one embodiment the network includes at least three generations of business entities and is configured such that associations are established between at least some business entities in neighboring generations and also between at least some business entities in non neighboring generations.

Further information that is accessible through the service framework are defined by business objects. These business objects are configured to permit or deny access based on the role of the user and if the user is permitted access to specify the extent to which a user is allowed to manipulate the information e.g. view only edit delete create modify aggregate etc. . Accordingly a duly authenticated user that logs onto the service framework in the role of an associate of a business entity is permitted or denied access to the business objects based on the role of the user and whether the user s business entity has an association with the owner of that business object. Further the extent of manipulation of business objects to which access is permitted is also controlled based on the configuration of the business object with regard to the role of the user.

The invention also provides a business entity management system for permitting or denying a business entity access to information of other business entities where a plurality of entities use a common business platform. The system includes arraying the business entities as a role dependent network of associated business entities where the associations mimic actual business relationships and needs for information sharing as explained above. In one embodiment the network includes at least three generations of grouped business entities the network is also configured such that associations are established between at least some of the business entities in neighboring generations and between at least some of the business entities in non neighboring generations. The system is fully recursive so that accessing by a first business entity from a second business entity for example will also potentially access information of any additional business entities associated with the second depending upon permission rules relating to roles and business objects. As discussed above the system also controls user access to information by using the role of the user the business object configuration and the networked associations to permit or deny access.

The invention also provides a software module that can be used in conjunction with a service framework. The service module includes means for communicating with the service framework such as an interface. It also includes means for configuring a plurality of business entities to control business entity access to information and extent of information manipulation if access is permitted. The module uses the roles and related business associations and the configuration of the business objects that represent information to permit or deny access and extent of manipulation of information by a user.

The business platform of the invention is scalable in that it permits ready addition of business entities and business and service modules. New business entities are added with relative ease after business relationships of its users are established because the associations with other business entities used in the role based networked system are based on these relationships and needs. The recursive nature of the business entity management module further simplifies addition of a new business entity in that only direct associations within the same generation and closest neighboring generations need to be established. All others are automatically available via these initially established associations. The platform is furthermore flexible in supporting legacy applications through use of interfaces. The platform can find application in a wide variety of businesses and may or may not be hosted by a third party for businesses that need to share some but not all information for enhanced productivity marketing sales economies of scale and overall competitiveness.

The invention further provides a server for operable communication with customers at remote desktops over a network. The server hosts web content containing static content and active content. The server includes a memory to store websites containing the web content and a website manager to render websites with the static content and active content in fixed locations relative to one another. An active content configuration module is a tool within the website manager to enable modification of the active content. The configuration module receives user requests to modify certain active content and determines if the active content has been locked by another business entity or business group. If the active content is locked then the configuration module compares the precedence of the user request to the precedence of the lock. A higher precedence controls modification of the active content.

Additional aspects and advantages of this invention will be apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments which proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with the invention it has now been recognized that a software business platform should have certain attributes in order to provide enhanced functionality. These attributes includes scalability flexibility the capability to successfully integrate legacy systems the ability to permit individual users to make changes and to customize certain business application modules for example those relating to the website of the individual user and data control that preferably mimics the actual business relationships between parties that have access to the information shared through the business platform. This mimicking should not only take into account which party business entity shares information with which other party but also the extent of information shared and that the extent of sharing may be dependent on the nature of the information and the role of the user who is typically an employee of a business entity . Thus for example while certain business entities may wish to share all inventory information inventory business objects about certain products through their respective sales managers they may not want to share that information for all products and while they might want to share certain marketing information marketing business objects through their respective marketing managers other marketing information might not be shared. Further information sharing may be dependent upon business entity type. Thus it may be unrestricted from one business entity type to another e.g. franchisee to franchisor but otherwise restricted when information flow is reversed e.g. franchisor to franchisee and further customized for other business relationships e.g franchisee franchisee vendor franchisee etc. .

The invention provides a business software platform that Includes the features described above. It is scalable in that it can be extended with minimal effort to include large multiples of users on the same platform. Further the platform is also scalable in the sense that it is readily extendable to support multiples of business applications including but not limited to applications relating to marketing sales finance website management and such other business functions as are necessary or desired. Further the platform of the invention may be used with legacy modules through the use of interfaces either a core service interface a business interface or an object interface to communicate through the system bus as discussed below. The business platform also permits individual users within business entities that have system permission to modify data and to customize aspects of data presentation such as in report generation and website management. The platform is configured to set up associations between business entities that mimics real life business relationships between the businesses and to allow deny or restrict information business objects access and sharing based on these relationships. Relationship refers to a real life business context and association refers to the software context. The extent of information sharing or denial of access to information is controlled through the configuration of the business objects representing the information and whether that configuration permits access by a certain user and the limits to his her access for example rights to create view only edit copy amend aggregate into a report or supplement the information as further explained below.

To the extent that the business platform is a hosted platform for a large number of separate business entities the platform permits reduction in overhead costs maintenance costs new user add in costs and provides better integration and system stability through the use of a single unified architecture.

An example of the business platform of the invention is shown in a simplified illustrative sketch . The platform includes a service framework and a series of service modules . The framework is immediately aware of services that are connected to it and provides messaging and other core services to the connected services. Every service on the business platform has authenticated access to potentially use any other service on the framework regardless of the location of that service.

Of the service modules two will be discussed here below although it should be understood that additional service modules may be added as needed for particular uses and applications of the platform. As shown the example of the platform includes a core service module and a business service module . This combination of service framework and service modules forms a platform that supports a wide variety of business applications . These applications will vary depending upon the nature of the businesses being supported. Generally however the applications relate to core business functions such as Sales Marketing and Finance and thus include but are not limited to inventory management data warehousing and data mining and the like applications. An example of each of the core and business service modules is discussed in more detail here below.

It should be understood that the business platform may be used as either a business platform that hosts a wide variety of separate business entities that have a need to share information or may be used by a single business entity that might have a plurality of separate users. For example in the intra business context the business platform may be useful to a retail department business organization that has department stores in various geographic locations. Consequently one might expect the individual department stores to have a need to share information with a local regional office and for all regional offices to share information with a corporate headquarters. Further there may be a need to share information between regional offices and a need to share information between department stores in various locations for various business purposes. Further the platform can support several retail department stores that are totally separate organizations. Thus a third party could for example host a platform for such organizations as Neiman Marcus Nordstrom and Walmart. Accordingly the business platform is flexible and fully adaptable to the needs of a variety of structured business relationships either within a business organization or between a large number of separate business organizations that share a hosted platform.

Returning to the architecture of the business platform of the invention is preferably a tightly integrated extension of the Sun Microsystems Sunnyvale Calif. J2EE software platform. Every feature of J2EE is available to services conforming to the business platform interfaces. The business platform is preferably an application server that runs on J2EE servers e.g. Weblogic a product and trademark of BEA Systems or Websphere a product and trademark of IBM Corporation although other such equivalent servers are also useful. These servers provide a variety of benefits including but not limited to 

By building on the design concepts described in the above sections the invention has been able to create a suite of tools for business users. An overview of each of those services as well as the business platform follows.

The first business platform service type Core Services provides the underlying service infrastructure of the business platform. Core Services may provide for example such functionality as 

Service Protocols Allows connection into the business platform via protocols such as HTTP HTTPS RMI SMTP JMS and SOAP.

Discovery Location Advertises the business platform services that can be securely defined discovered and integrated in the business platform framework. This direct service to service integration over the business platform is a core building block of the business platform based applications.

Authentication Security Provides authentication for users applications and services that want to use other services of the framework.

Internationalization The business platform preferably adheres to Sun MicroSystems i18n standards or equivalent for internationalization and localization. Textual messages are stored outside the source code so new language support does not require re compilation. Culturally dependent data such as dates and currencies appear in formats that conform to the user s region and language.

Transaction Handling When applications invoke transactions across the business services they have to be able to access data across those services. Transaction handling provides the two phase commit mechanism to support distributed transactions.

Messaging Provides messaging services that allow identical communications both internally within the framework and externally with outside applications.

Persistence Saves data to underlying persistent storage most commonly these are relational databases .

The second business platform service type shown in is the Business Service Module . Business Services are all the different types of business functionality that are available to the business platform users. The business platform may have a number of pre packaged Business Services. Or business entities or other software developers can create Business Services. These business services are clearly somewhat dependent upon the nature of the businesses being served. For example in a hosted platform in the automotive area linking dealers regional dealer groups and manufacturers OEMs non limiting examples of the business platform Business Services Modules may be 

Clearly for other types of businesses these services may vary from the above listing. Each of the Business Services may constructed using whatever language or technology the business entity desires only the business platform interface of the invention is required to be implemented by all the business platform services. The interface is defined as a common Java Object as well as a standardized specification by which the service is implemented.

The Business Service communicates with and across the business platform via bus interfaces and object interfaces. The framework can support any piece of functionality that a business entity would like to use with the business platform as long as these interfaces are implemented. For example if a business entity preferred to use its own configurator rather than any of the configurators that a hosted system provides it could do so by creating a configuration business service that integrates with the business platform framework and object interfaces that the host publishes and documents. The ability to interact with the framework via this set of interfaces enables the business entities to each change out applications modules at any time.

In addition to the interfaces each Business Service needs and uses a Core Service . Each Core Service provides an interface that allows it to be used by the Business Service in a standard way. For example a Business Service might use the persistence and security Core Services and would use Core Service interfaces that allow for that communication via Application Programming Interfaces.

The illustrative example of a platform in accordance with the invention shown in relates in particular to the automotive industry from the perspective of a particular dealer. It should be understood that the illustrative example of the platform of the invention is a hosted platform in which services are provided to dealers regional dealer groups and manufacturers original equipment manufacturers or OEMs . The OEMs include manufacturers of automobiles as well as manufacturers of components supplied as original equipment such as tires parts audio equipment and the like. As shown in the platform includes both the service framework and core services as described in relation to and in addition provides a range of Business Application Modules also known as tools . These tools include but are not limited to a User Administration Application a Marketing Library Manager MLM and a Website Manager HWM . The Website Manager has tools that include at least the following configuration inventory management lead management traffic reporting asset library management website management and logging. The Marketing Library Manager permits dealers to access a variety of digital multimedia assets that include pictures logos videos audio or text from advertising agencies OEMs and other sources as provided through the platform.

Dealers can use the website manager to edit and publish in real time. Dealers can also establish various permission levels for staff members to permit them to access the system and to make permitted modifications based on the level of access allowed. Further the platform permits input of third party content from a dealer group OEM advertising association and optionally also from a host of the platform in hosted applications. The Dealer can use third party applications as well through use of the interfaces of the service framework.

Taking as an example the automotive hosted platform discussed above the business platform infrastructure provides a system that allows dealer groups to provide whatever design elements they would like for their websites from any source i.e. agencies Web design firms etc. using host provided tools. The dealer groups can then activate and manage those websites with common tools and integrate all the elements together into one manageable package. The tools are provided through the Business Services in a consistent user interface.

The Hosted Website Manager for the business platform HWM is used to configure save publish and activate consumer facing websites. Site editing operations are serviced by the EJB Enterprise Java Bean tier including those in which media assets are being selected or manipulated for use in constructing a client s website. These services may also be used when installing an order for creating a new website.

Again in the context of an automotive platform or a platform in which many entities will use the same marketing assets the invention includes a Marketing Library Manager MLM as discussed above which is the source for all digital marketing assets such as images video audio and text content for any application or website that is developed for the business platform. The MLM is preferably organized hierarchically in libraries and folders. The media assets are managed in a media repository and may be published to a live asset area in a shared file system before general use in applications on constructed sites or in the Website Manager. The MLM services preferably provide an abstraction layer independent of any underlying repository storage mechanism. This enables better integration of external content.

In the same context the MLM services are preferably integrated with Artesia TEAMS a product and trademark of Artesia or another suitable digital asset management system. Clearly other asset and content management back ends can also be integrated with the business platform.

The MLM user interface verifies the credentials of the logged in user to determine which media libraries can be accessed and the extent of use permitted as explained below. Website Manager and the design tools use the MLM services for adding new content or modifying existing content on consumer facing websites.

As will now be explained the platform of the invention controls information access and degree of manipulation through a Business Entity Management core service module that is based on 1 business entity association with other business entities mimicking real life relationships and information needs based on user roles 2 the role assigned to a user and 3 the configuration of the relevant business objects to allow access to or manipulation by the user.

A business entity in the business platform of the invention is anyone or any corporation partnership or other entity that can access the business platform applications or data through a user. Thus for example a dealer dealer group or OEM in an automotive platform would be a business entity while a manager of sales a user role might be a designated user that has permission through his her assigned role within the business entity to access the platform. A business entity in the platform of the invention is part of a network of associated business entities that mimics real life business relationships between these entities. The network is contextual in that it is role dependent. Thus for each user role the network may be different from other user roles due to the nature of actual business relationships and information needs. Thus whenever a new business entity is added to the platform all that must be established are the roles of the users and the other entities already in the network with which it will have direct relationships through its normal course of business. This permits ease of adding new business entities to the system by establishing its associations in the network for each role. Associations represent the relationships between business entities in the platform for example OEMs dealer groups and dealers in the automotive platform context. The business platform must know business entity associations to control access to and permitted use of business objects pieces of information in libraries assets and configured active content across those associations. Active content is defined as content that can be configured by an administrator. Permitted uses or manipulations of information accessible via the platform include viewing only editing creating modifying supplementing report generation and the like. Business entities like users can also be assigned roles and each business entity can perform dual positions in the business entity association and role system. This provides a flexible way of managing the interactions between the various business objects and actors as explained below.

With reference to an illustrative example of the role dependent networked business relationships that are emulated in the business platform of the invention there are shown a number of business entities represented by circles arrayed in series of generations . At the lower level there is a group of business entities designated generation . Moving up the diagram the next generation is generation and so forth up to generation n. Thus the business platform can accommodate a large range of generations that have business associations with each of its neighboring generations represented by the linking lines. For ease of explanation assume that the business platform is a hosted platform used in the automotive business area. In this case the business entities shown at the level of generation may be visualized as automotive dealers. The business entities shown at the level of generation may be regarded as regional dealership groups and the business entities at generation may be viewed as OEMs. Clearly the platform can accommodate more than generations but these generations will suffice to explain how the business relationship configuration is used to control information access and use and one of skill in the art can readily extend this to include more generations for a particular application.

Note that dealer d belongs to both dealer group g and dealer group g. This is a real life situation in which a single dealer may be franchised to sell 2 different product lines for example Saab and Volkswagen cars. Accordingly dealer will have a business relationship with 2 regional dealer groups as shown by the association between them in . Likewise as shown in the diagram dealer d has associations with 3 dealer groups g g and g because it sells 3 different product lines and is therefore affiliated with 3 different dealer groups. On the other hand dealers d and d each only associate with a single dealer group since they have only 1 franchise each.

Note further that at the second generation level some of the regional dealer groups g g and g have associations with each other. This association between dealer groups is also based on business relationships. For example one dealer group may be based in Seattle while another might be based in Denver but both dealer groups sell the same line of automobiles. Accordingly it might be necessary and desirable for an exchange of information regarding sales marketing and other business information regarding sales of an automobile product line in the two regions. As a general rule such associations between colleagues of the same generation can be established for any generation based on the existing business relationships.

At the generation level the automobile manufacturers tire manufacturers and other suppliers of original equipment OEMs have associations with the regional dealer groups and may have access to certain information of these. However each OEM is restricted to access only information relating to its products and not product lines of other OEMs as explained below through configuration of business objects and taking into account user roles.

For the sake of simplicity one can view the above described generational business relationships as parent child relationships where the OEMs are parents the dealer groups are children and the dealers are grandchildren . The dealers stand as children to the dealer group parents .

Referring to it is also apparent that there is in this example no direct relationship shown between generation and generation . The only communication is through generation . This not always the case. In many circumstances depending upon user role direct associations between generations and is a reality of the actual business relationship. The example of was added to illustrate the role dependent nature of the networked associations. Thus for example a user at an OEM might want access to dealer inventories for production scheduling reasons. This can be effected through direct information transfer from dealer to OEM once the association between dealer and OEM is present in the platform for the user seeking the information. Note further that the network is fully recursive so that for example when OEM M seeks permitted information from dealer group g it also has access to permitted information through g to information from d. This recursiveness is a significant feature of the invention that simplifies the adding of new business entities to the networks only immediate or closest business relationships must be mimicked by associations with already existing entities in the network other associations result automatically from prior established associations of the already existing business entities. Thus if d is newly added only associations with g g and g need be specified. The associations with M result automatically by recursion.

The above discussion relating to sets forth a basic notion of associations between the business entities in accordance with the invention. However as explained before business entity associations are also contextual in the sense that they are dependent upon the role of the user role dependent within the business entity. Therefore for example the networked association illustrated in may for example relate to the role of an accounting manager for one of the dealer groups or for any one of the other generations shown. The information requirements of a marketing manager of one of the business entities might be quite different and could be illustrated as shown in representative diagram for example. In this FIGURE it can be seen that there are now direct associations between generation the OEMs in the automotive context and generation the dealers. This direct association might be necessary for the dealers to update digital multimedia images and other information from the OEM s MLM for use on dealer websites. Further the OEMs might have an interest in the nature of automobiles being configured by consumer users using configurators on the dealer websites. This kind of information might provide the OEMs with valuable insights as to consumer preferences. Accordingly such direct associations might be both necessary and desirable and may reflect real life relationships.

From the foregoing it should now be apparent that user role plays an important part in establishing the associations between business entities for persons in that particular role i.e. the associations are role based. Thus each business entity will have as many networked associations as it has user roles one of these networks corresponding to each of its roles that has access as a user.

The platform of the invention also controls access to information as most broadly defined through configuration of its business objects . Thus each of the business application modules and their content and all content in data bases of business entities that are intended to be shared are business objects. The information to be shared is not narrowly defined or restricted in the invention but can be any information in the system. In other words the business objects representing information or data are abstract concepts in this context.

In the invention each of the business objects is configured for permission or denial of access depending upon the role of the user seeking access. Further in the event access is not denied but is granted access can be restricted in several ways by object configuration. For example the business object may be configured to deny access completely to a user with a particular role or to permit view only access or access to manipulate and manipulation can be restricted to edit modify supplement create and or delete. Further access may be restricted based on user and business object configuration to permit or deny the user the right to aggregate information to generate the reports that include the particular business objects. Thus for example a parent e.g. dealer group might have access to all children dealers in its group inventory and can run a report showing all of this. But the child might or might not have permission to generate or view the same report. In some instances a user may only be allowed to see part of a report or to generate a report based on only certain information allowed for that user. According to the invention that there are parts of the report or information withheld from this user would not be apparent to the user. Users of each business entity within each franchise could receive permissions to view edit create modify or supplement all some or none of the applications reports or website information associated with their own business entity s franchise. In particular cases users from non associated business entities may also be expressly granted roles and permissions bypassing any lack of actual business relationship. This is not common however.

Accordingly the platform of the invention uses a flexible range of parameters based on business entity association mimicking real life relationships and information needs in the context of user role and business object configuration to control access to information of all kinds in the same way that businesses in the real world would want to structure their informational relationships.

When a user logs into the system the usual precautions are taken to authenticate the user by login ID and password. Once the user is logged in and his her role is identified the user can look at and manipulate all information available to his her role and business entity to which he she belongs without any appearance via the user interface that not all the system information available is available to the user. The user can access information to which it is allowed access based on business entity and role and can manipulate it to the extent permitted to its role.

The addition of new business entities is also straightforward. Once all roles of the new entity are established and relationships for each role with its parent child and sibling business entities associations are set up for each role. This automatically sets up other relationships in the network based on prior associations of the parent siblings and children because the system is fully recursive as explained above. In some instances direct association outside of the parent child sibling context must be added e.g. to a grandparent as in the case of dealer to OEM .

The business platform Business Entity Management as described above ensures that business entity users only receive permission to access to view modify edit supplement create etc. applications data and websites all regarded as information made up of business objects that are appropriate for their assigned role within the entity to which they belong. As can be understood from the foregoing once created business entities become the nexus from which almost all resources are referenced. These resources include users applications asset libraries websites and product packages.

The platform also includes an optional Collection Management Sub system CMS that provides the necessary functionality involved in creating and managing collections. A collection is any set of business entities which share a common property like the new car franchised dealers of an OEM s dealer network. The CMS allows the business platform to collect groups of products under or in association with certain business entities. An actor will create a collection of product packages or products in order to perform actions in aggregate via the platform. For example in the automotive context an actor may create a collection that contains all the Toyota endorsed websites in order to share a Toyota OEM library. Collections make it possible to take action i.e. updating a website design or deploying a new application across an entire OEM or dealer group dealer network or any subset by a central authority.

WebEngine a product and trademark of Cobalt Group Inc. of Seattle Wash. or an equivalent may be used as the underlying Core Service used by Website Manager tool for maintaining and publishing websites. WebEngine is designed to offer core services and persistence for any application or subsystem that interacts with website content management.

In addition a Design Management Tool provides an interface to import update and delete design related information. Design components may vary depending upon the industry but all these are preferably managed through the tool and include the following in the automotive context 

Designs can be created by any party with access to the Design Management Tool. Designs created are preferably output as XML DTD documents and loaded into the WebEngine for publishing. Sites published based on a design can be edited regardless of creator through the Website Manager.

The platform also has a User Management Tool an administration application that allows for the creation of first administrator user and first user and also provides the capability to search for and edit users and user profiles. Once these users are created the administrator can create and manage additional and existing users.

An Order Management System is responsible for receiving order information for example from a preexisting legacy system using the Enterprise Application Integration services EAI and saving it in the business platform system. The order information is used to initialize the site and customize website products and dealer tools.

The business platform is as explained above designed to integrate seamlessly into legacy systems within an enterprise using enterprise application integration APIs. The business plafform s EAI capabilities are used for 

Communicating via the business platform Service framework. The business systems use EAI to notify Business Entities of relationships and associations that exist between them and to broker data and provide process integration with other applications.

The Order Tracking Service preferably built on an Oracle or other equivalent database is used to track the status of orders. This service notifies other business platform services of changes in the status of an order via EAI.

Business partners and other users of the business platform based systems have a multitude of business to business B2B integration options. Integration services within the business platform accept adapters conforming to Content Management Systems CMS such as for example Vignette a product and trademark of Vignette of Austin Tex. and TeamSite a product and trademark of Interwoven of Sunnyvale Calif. . Integration packages such as BusinessWare a product and trademark of Vitria of Sunnyvale Calif. and webMethods a product and trademark of webMethods of Sunnyvale Calif. and the like are similarly accommodated. Using the business platform in this manner provides a wide range of possibilities including the ability to propagate personalization and website designs from commercial CMSs to the business platform based systems.

In the automotive context used as an example to explain and highlight features of the platform of the invention the business platform provides a robust flexible system that allows dealer groups and dealers to manage their online business easily in a rapidly evolving world of technology. The business platform architecture uses software systems to provide security availability scalability extensibility and ease of use while at the same time allowing for rapid growth and investment protection. The elements that make up the business platform provide business entities with many options to build distribute and manage their e business solutions.

Referring to a representation of a network based system for providing web content for participating business entities is shown. The system includes a web manager resident in a webserver . The web manager may be implemented as computer readable instruction code to perform functions of the present invention and as such be stored in a memory configuration. A web manager may also be implemented in hardware as is known in the art. The webserver includes a network interface to enable communication with a network such as a global computer network that is commonly referred to as the Internet. However the network may also be an intranet such as LAN or WAN. The webserver includes a processor to enable operation in accordance with the present invention.

Business entities and individual users communicate with the webserver through the network to initialize and modify content available to customers. A business entity may have an assigned administrator for accessing the webserver or a user may be a designated administrator.

The webserver hosts websites which are stored in a memory for access by customers . A customer is defined broadly and may be an end consumer of products or services or another user of the system . The webserver includes the website manager to process operations relating to the servicing and editing of the websites . The website manager may be implemented as computer readable code that is operated by the processor . A website includes static content and active content that may collectively be referred to as web content. Active content includes identifiable objects that may be modified by users. Except upon initial creation static content remains unchanged. A template may define the layout for the static content and the location of active content relative to the static content .

The website manager includes a tool referred to herein as an active content configuration module to enable editing of active content . The website manger authorizes user login to the webserver to view and modify active content for a chosen website if the user has permission. The active content configuration module governs which users have permission to edit a website and control how the website is ultimately rendered and viewed by customers .

The webserver includes a marketing library manager that serves as a database manager for a marketing library . The marketing library contains media such as alphanumeric text graphics videos or audio. The media can be developed by the business entities or be received by an outside source. The marketing library may include templates that define static content and the location of one or more active content relative to the static content. In one implementation a template may designate cells where active content is placed. Active content may also be selected from the available media and inserted in an appropriate cell in a website .

When a user requests or authorizes creation of a website the active content configuration module allows the user to select static content from the media in the marketing library or select a pre developed template. The marketing library manager locates and retrieves the requested media or template from the marketing library . A user may configure static content for a layout and define locations for cells for active content . Alternatively a template may lock the static content thereby preventing a user from altering the layout. A user then initially selects active content for placement in a website such as by copying the active content to cells. The initial values for the active content are chosen as default values.

Users may subsequently edit default values for any number of reasons. In one example a group of business entities may use a common website layout. However a displayed website needs to be specific to one entity based on a geographic locations legal considerations pricing structures and so forth. Thus a participating group may need to edit an active content because local taxes shipping maintenance or other overhead considerations affect the value. In another example an active content may be a legal disclaimer that needs to be modified based on the local legal policies in effect. As can be appreciated an active content may need to be modified by an entity or a group of entities for any number of reasons.

The active content configuration module allows a user to log in and depending on authorization and permission edit active content on a website . A user may be an administrator for a business entity or for a group of business entity. Active editing of values is shared between participating entities and groups of the system . As such different users from different entities and groups may access and edit values as permitted.

Users may elect to retain the values open so that subsequent users may edit the values. Alternatively a user may wish to lock a value to prevent editing. The configuration module operates on precedence assigned to the different entities and groups to determine control of locked values. Thus a higher precedence may change a value locked by a lower precedence and a higher precedence lock is not modifiable by a lower precedence lock. Given the complex natures of business entities and their relationships pre assigning precedence greatly facilitates a determination of whether one entity overrides another entities lock.

Referring to a table is shown illustrating a methodology for determining the values of active content accessible on a website. The active content may be alphanumeric text graphics video audio or other displayable information that may be formatted within a web document. Entities participating in a family website may need to display values in their respective website. However the values may vary for a number of reasons. Thus a value of an active content must be modifiable according to the specific website. Furthermore a methodology based on precedence enables restriction and control of values available on websites.

Default values are initially created with a corresponding website and the website configuration module . Values shown throughout the table are accompanied by a subscript to indicate the provider of the setting. Providers are site groups that are participating in the development of a website . A site group includes one or more business entities. Participation in a site group may be based on a number of relational factors such as franchise relations contractual relations sponsorship production relations and so forth. A user acts on behalf of a site group to access and modify values .

Default values A J have a subscript d to indicate their default setting. Subscripts g g . . . gn indicate that a user of a corresponding site group provided a new setting upon modification of the value. Thus values E J have a subscript g to indicate that group provided a new value. A symbol in front of a value indicates that the value is locked or immutable. A locked value may be overridden by another locked setting of higher precedence. Values specified by multiple site groups are evaluated based on an order of precedence established for the groups. In the precedence order goes down as the group number increases.

In locking a group with the highest precedence can override a lock by a group of a lower precedence. Value I is locked by group . Although group and group N have different values for I and J the precedence of group prevents the unlocking and modification of I and J.

For unlocked values a value supplied by a lower precedence group may be used. Value H is changed by group group and finally group . Because value H was never locked the last chronological modification determines the value displayed on the website.

Subscript s indicates that a site specific default value is provided. The website configuration module may automatically modify values based on predetermined site values. In the values C and G are modified to a site specific default value. In one implementation of the present invention locked values override the site specific default values. This is shown where I and J have locked values by site group . Alternatively site specific values may be given precedence as with site groups. Site specific values would then operate similar to the site groups in overriding previously established locks.

Subscript c indicates a specific instance of a web component providing a value as shown with values B D F I and J. A web component may override a site specific value. In the implementation shown a web component does not override site group locks. However in alternative embodiments a web component may be assigned a precedence and operate similar in priority to site groups.

Default values for active content are modifiable by participating site groups and automatically replaced by predetermined site specific values and web components. Values are locked at the discretion of site groups. The control of values is maintained by the precedence ranking of participating site groups. Thus a superior precedence will retain ultimate control over values. In this manner an OEM may determine the values resident on a website regardless of other participating business entities such as group dealerships retailers and so forth.

It will be obvious to those having skill in the art that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the invention. The scope of the present invention should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

