---

title: Higher-order intermodulation reduction using phase and angle smearing
abstract: A method for reducing intermodulation beams includes applying a beam-smearing phase distribution in addition to a beam-steering distribution for scanning to an array of antenna elements such that multiple higher-order intermodulation products are simultaneously reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07420508&OS=07420508&RS=07420508
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 07420508
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060214
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract No. FA8802 04 C 0001 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates generally to communication systems employing multiple simultaneous antenna beams and in particular to reducing intermodulation IM product beams in such communications systems.

Multiple simultaneous antenna beams required in communication systems are often achieved using active phased arrays. A common difficulty encountered in these systems is the generation of intermodulation product beams due to nonlinear effects. When these parasitic beams are produced at frequencies within the system operational bandwidth signal to noise ratio and therefore overall system performance can degrade significantly.

It would be helpful to be able to reduce intermodulation product beams in such systems while having minimal impact on fundamental beams. It would also be helpful to be able to reduce intermodulation products that are higher than third order while having minimal impact on fundamental beams.

Example embodiments of the present invention involve systems and methods for reducing intermodulation product beams by simultaneously using phase and angle smearing and in particular extending the reduction to intermodulation products higher than third order. Generally a phase distribution in addition to a progressive distribution for beam scanning is imposed on the array elements. In an example embodiment phase excitations are used to reduce the magnitude of higher order intermodulation beams caused by nonlinear effects in communication systems requiring multiple simultaneous beams. This reduction is achieved at a cost of minor degradation of the fundamental beams. In example embodiments typical degradation of the fifth seventh and ninth order beams ranges from 6 to 12 dB when the fundamental degradation ranges from 0.2 to 1.1 dB. In an example embodiment an array is excited with a phase distribution that minimizes the peak directivity of higher order intermodulation beams while having minimal impact on the fundamental beams.

To understand the effects of phase smearing on the third order intermodulation beams first consider two sine wave functions given by sin sin 1 The functional form of associated third order nonlinearities is revealed by constructing the function g t given by 2 It is instructive to expand the right hand side of equation 2 so that all terms consist of sinusoids having arguments that are either integer multiples sums of integer multiples or differences of integer multiples of t and t . The terms expected to be the most problematic in a communication system are those sinusoids t and t having arguments that are differences of consecutive integer multiples i.e. sin 2 sin 2 3 By letting 4 then the functions given in equation 3 become sin 2 3 sin 2 3 5 Equation 5 reveals that the magnitude of the phase constants of problematic third order intermodulation terms is three times that of the fundamental functions from which they are generated.

Because the resulting phase excitation of each element for these third order intermodulation signals is three times the phase excitation for the fundamental signals the far field phases of the third order intermodulation beams produced by each quadrant of the array are 3 as shown in . Therefore the phase smearing excitation effectively degrades the third order intermodulation beams by three times as much as it degrades the fundamental beams. Similarly it can be shown that the phase excitation of each element for the problematic fifth order intermodulation signals is five times the phase excitation for the fundamental signals so that the far field phases of the fifth order intermodulation beams produced by each quadrant are 5 as shown in . Therefore the phase smearing excitation effectively degrades the fifth order intermodulation beams by five times as much as it degrades the fundamental beams.

Because the phase excitation of each element for the third order intermodulation signals is three times the phase excitation for the fundamental signals the third order intermodulation beams generated by each quadrant are steered by approximately three times as much as shown in . Therefore the angle smearing excitation effectively degrades the third order intermodulation beams by three times as much as the fundamental beams. Similarly the phase excitation of each element for the fifth order intermodulation signals is five times the phase excitation for the fundamental signals so that the fifth order intermodulation beams generated by each quadrant are steered by five times as much as shown in . Therefore the phase smearing excitation effectively degrades the fifth order intermodulation beams by five times as much as it degrades the fundamental beams.

The phase and angle smearing techniques were evaluated with a 14 14 spot beam array design that for example can be employed to achieve Earth coverage communication from a geosynchronous satellite. shows the array layout and element pattern. In this example the elements were assumed to be identical excited uniformly in amplitude and laid out on a square grid with a spacing of 2.5 wavelengths. The pattern of each element was modeled using a circularly symmetric J u u function where Jis the Bessel function of the first kind and u is proportional to the sine of the angle from the element boresight. The element pattern peak directivity was 21.1 dB and decreased by 3 dB at the edge of Earth EOE which was assumed to be 8.6 from the antenna boresight. All directivity patterns of the array were generated using the satellite industry standard software General Reflector Antenna and Antenna Farm Analysis Program GRASP .

Performance was evaluated using the two criteria shown in . Because phase and angle smearing affect the fundamental beams as well as the intermodulation beams the degradations of both were evaluated. displays the directivity pattern for the fundamental beams of the 14 14 array projected onto the Earth s disk from geosynchronous orbit both before and after changing the element phase distribution to implement combined phase and angle smearing. Although smearing produces significant effects on the sidelobes of the fundamental pattern the small amount of smearing generally required typically has only minor effects on the spot beam which is assumed to occupy a small angular region less than 0.5 from the antenna boresight. This small region is assumed to be of prime importance for the communication system and so the maximum directivity degradation within this region is used as a first criterion to evaluate performance.

In order to optimize performance using combined phase and angle smearing it is important to be aware of symmetries associated with phase smearing. As illustrated in phase smearing performance is symmetric with respect to a quadrant phase of 90 . That is the array directivity pattern for a quadrant phase excitation using 90 is identical to that for a quadrant phase excitation using 90 where is any arbitrary angle. This is shown in in which these two different phase excitations are generated from one another by performing two simple operations that do not affect the array far field directivity pattern a physical rotation of the quadrants by 90 about the array boresight axis and an addition of 180 to each quadrant phase. More generally it is straightforward to show that the array directivity pattern for a quadrant phase excitation using n90 is identical to that for a quadrant phase excitation using n90 where n 1 3 5 . . . Symmetry for larger values of becomes more important when attempting to minimize increasingly higher order intermodulation products.

In the degradation in directivity of the fundamental beams is plotted as a function of smear angle and smear phase. In this example smear angle is varied from 0 to 1 and smear phase is varied from 0 to 40 . Only one point is shown for each of the smear phases of 30 and 40 since for these smear phases the degradation is greater than 1.2 dB and it is expected that the use of such a large smear phase would be relatively unlikely. In it can be seen that the degradation increases more or less monotonically with both smear angle and smear phase.

In the degradation in directivity of the fifth order intermodulation beams is plotted as a function of smear angle and smear phase. For small values of smear angle the degradation is strongly dependent upon the smear phase increasing rapidly with smear phase until the symmetry effect discussed above causes the degradation to drop. For larger values of smear angle the degradation is relatively insensitive to smear phase. Large degradation of about 10 dB can be achieved with a smear angle of just 0.4 while an additional 2 3 dB of degradation can be achieved if the smear angle is increased to 0.6 .

In the degradations in directivity of the seventh and ninth order intermodulation beams respectively are plotted as functions of smear angle and smear phase. Both the seventh and ninth order degradations are strongly dependent on smear phase when smear angle is small. When the smear angle is greater than about 0.3 the seventh order degradation is relatively insensitive to smear phase and tends to increase gradually with smear angle reaching one local maximum when the smear angle is about 0.5 . The ninth order degradation is relatively insensitive to both smear angle and smear phase when smear angle is between 0.4 and 0.7 but increases rapidly and is strongly dependent on smear phase as smear angle is increased further. The smear phase symmetry effect is clearly evident in which shows that the ninth order degradation is identical for smear phases of 0 20 and 40 as well as for smear phases of 10 30 and 50 .

If degradation of a particular intermodulation beam is critical or desired the set of curves of fundamental degradation given in can be used with any one of the three sets of curves given in . Alternatively all four sets of curves given in can be used in an attempt to simultaneously minimize as many intermodulation beams as possible. The results of this type of optimization are tabulated in which shows three examples of phase and angle smearing schemes that can be utilized in order to simultaneously minimize the fifth seventh and ninth order intermodulation beams while incurring various degradations of the fundamental beams.

In an example embodiment a method for reducing intermodulation beams includes applying a beam smearing phase distribution in addition to a beam steering distribution for scanning to an array of antenna elements such that multiple higher order intermodulation products are simultaneously reduced.

In an example embodiment a method for reducing intermodulation beams includes applying phase shifts to two fundamental beams such that the directivity of higher order intermodulation products of the two fundamental signals is reduced more than the directivity of the fundamental beams.

The first scenario tabulated in has been selected to meet a hypothetical requirement that only a minimal degradation of the fundamental beams can be tolerated. In this example scenario achieved using a smear phase of 10 and a smear angle of 0.2 the fifth seventh and ninth order beams are degraded by 6.2 8.2 and 11.3 dB respectively while minimally affecting the fundamental beams which are degraded by just 0.2 dB. The fundamental and intermodulation directivity patterns for the first scenario before and after smearing are shown in . The spot beam of the fundamental patterns is virtually unchanged only the sidelobe structure is altered. In contrast the directivity patterns for the fifth seventh and ninth order intermodulation products are significantly altered by phase and angle smearing. show the increasing effects of smearing for increasing intermodulation beam order. The fifth order pattern shows the beginnings of a boresight null which is more evident in the seventh order pattern and very well defined in the ninth order pattern which clearly displays a quadripartite beam. In this example the peak directivities for the fifth seventh and ninth order intermodulation patterns are 35.5 33.5 and 30.4 dB respectively.

The second scenario tabulated in has been selected to meet a hypothetical requirement that a moderate amount of fundamental beam degradation can be tolerated. In this example scenario achieved using a smear phase of 10 and a smear angle of 0.4 the fifth seventh and ninth order beams are degraded by 9.6 9.5 and 12.4 dB respectively while the fundamental beams are degraded by just 0.5 dB. The directivity patterns for the second scenario before and after smearing are shown in . The fundamental spot beam is again virtually unchanged with only the sidelobe structure significantly altered. Again the increasing effects of smearing for increasing intermodulation beam order are evident with a boresight null and quadripartite beam already visible in the seventh order pattern. The ninth order pattern displays an angular broadening of the boresight null. In this example the peak directivities for the fifth seventh and ninth order intermodulation patterns are 32.1 32.2 and 29.3 dB respectively.

The third scenario tabulated in has been selected to meet a hypothetical requirement that a relatively large amount of fundamental beam degradation can be tolerated. In this example scenario achieved using a smear phase of 0 and a smear angle of 0.65 the fifth seventh and ninth order beams are degraded by 12.0 11.7 and 11.2 dB respectively while the fundamental beams are degraded by 1.1 dB. The directivity patterns for the third scenario before and after smearing are shown in . The fundamental spot beam is again virtually unchanged with only the sidelobe structure significantly altered. Again the increasing effects of smearing for increasing intermodulation beam order are evident with a boresight null and quadripartite beam already visible in the fifth order pattern. The seventh and ninth order patterns display increasingly broadening boresight nulls. In this example the peak directivities for the fifth seventh and ninth order intermodulation patterns are 29.7 30.0 and 30.5 dB respectively.

In an example embodiment a method for reducing intermodulation beams includes identifying one or more higher order intermodulation beams that are to be targeted for a directivity reduction determining acceptable degradations for fundamental beams associated with the one or more higher order intermodulation beams determining phase and angle beam smearing parameters and that target the one or more higher order intermodulation beams identified and provide the acceptable degradations to the fundamental beams and using the phase and angle beam smearing parameters and to apply a beam smearing phase distribution to an array along with a beam steering distribution.

The phase and angle smearing method described herein provides significant degradation of undesirable higher order intermodulation beams caused by nonlinear effects in communication systems. The described method typically results in the degeneration of highly directive intermodulation beams to deep nulls that broaden as the beam order increases. This higher order beam degradation can be achieved with minimal impact on the fundamental spot beams required for communication. By way of example with a 14 14 array design if a fundamental beam degradation of just 0.2 dB can be tolerated the fifth seventh and ninth order beams can all be degraded by more than 6 dB. Alternatively if a fundamental beam degradation of 1.1 dB can be tolerated the fifth seventh and ninth order beams can all be degraded by more than 11 dB.

Referring to in another example embodiment an intermodulation beams reduction system includes a 16 element 4 4 array for reducing higher order IM beams. In this example embodiment radiators are configured in four quadrants as shown and amplifiers e.g. nonlinear amplifiers and phase shifters are operatively connected to the radiators as shown. In a scenario where third order as well as higher order intermodulation beams are problematic in an example embodiment is modified by replacing each amplifier and the power combiner that feeds it with an intermodulation cancellation circuit such as the intermodulation cancellation circuit of .

The intermodulation beams reduction system is merely one example of systems and hardware configurations of the present invention that can provide improved communication system performance. By way of example the principles described herein can be used for satellite antenna arrays or any application generally requiring arrays for generating multiple simultaneous beams in the presence of nonlinear effects.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of the example embodiments above numerous modifications and or additions to the above described embodiments would be readily apparent to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the scope of the present invention extend to all such modifications and or additions.

