---

title: System and method for media-enabled messaging having publish-and-send feature
abstract: A system and related techniques manage the adding of digital images or other media to email messages using a comparatively straightforward insert-and-send scheme. A user may choose to insert or embed comparatively low-resolution versions of images or other media automatically published to a media server into an email message. The recipient of that media-enabled message may receive and view the email text message along with the low-resolution images in typical fashion using an email or other client. The recipient may choose to view one or more of the embedded images in greater resolution by linking or activating those images, for instance by moving a cursor and clicking into the selected image or other object. Activating the image or other media object from within the email pane may seamlessly transport the user to the media server's Web page to view a larger-resolution version of that image, for instance using a media player. Video, audio and other media may likewise be inserted into messages. The sender may therefore share a variety of images, audio, video or other media with selected recipients without loading the recipient's email or other client with increased download times or storage requirements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07631259&OS=07631259&RS=07631259
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07631259
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060922
---
This application is a continuation of and claims the benefit of priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 728 086 filed on Dec. 5 2003.

The invention relates to the field of communications and more particularly to a platform and techniques for generating email or other messages which seamlessly incorporate linkable high resolution images or other media for selective viewing by the recipient.

The proliferation of digital cameras cellular phones equipped with digital cameras video cameras and other imaging devices has led to a corresponding interest on the part of consumers in sharing their photographs and other media. While dedicated Web services exist to accept and serve consumers uploaded camera shots the necessary steps to prepare upload and share that media may be inconvenient to some users.

Many users on the other hand may prefer or revert to sharing their digital photographs or other media by way of email choosing to embed or attach the JPG or other digital photo files directly into email messages to friends and others. However using ordinary email services as a vehicle to exchange digital photographs video clips audio clips or other media has significant drawbacks. For one high resolution digital photographs can reach several megabytes in size. Attempting to transmit files of that or greater size via an email service may bog the sender s email client down or clog the recipient s inbox with content which takes a significant time to open. In cases large email attachments may not transmit at all.

Users may instead generate reduced resolution versions of photographs and other media to help alleviate those transmission and storage issues. Some email clients may likewise permit a user to embed or attach reduced resolution versions of images to outgoing email messages. Those various smaller versions may include for example thumbnail or Web ready images on the order of 100 100 pixels or more or less. While this permits the recipient to view a representation of the original image that representation may be too low resolution to permit printing or other manipulation of the image. Other problems and disadvantages exist in current media sharing technology.

The invention overcoming these and other problems in the art relates in one regard to a system and method for media enabled messaging having a publish and send feature in which a sender may insert digital photographs video clips audio files or samples or other media into an email message or other message object. The images may be automatically embedded or attached as a linkable media object for instance in the form of a reduced size or resolution version of the images which the user desires to share. A composition interface may permit the user to lay out those images and automatically publish full resolution or otherwise enhanced representations to a media server or other resource for instance located at a Web site. When the email or other recipient receives the message they may view the comparatively reduced resolution linkable media objects embedded in the message and select one or more of those objects to view in more detail. Activating the linkable media object may seamlessly invoke a media player or other client application to transport the recipient to the associated Web site or other delivery resource. The recipient may then view listen download and store or otherwise manipulate the enhanced representation of the photographs or other media. Both the sender and the recipient of the media enabled message may therefore manipulate the inserted photographs or other media transparently without having to carry out other steps beyond typical email operation.

Users may more particularly generate publish store and exchange one or more media enabled message using the media enabled messaging capabilities of embodiments of the invention. The media enabled message may in embodiments be or include an email message transmitted by an email client but it will be appreciated that other types and formats of messaging and messages may be employed. According to the invention in one regard a user in the set of users may receive a media enabled message via a set of email servers which set may include one or more post office protocol POP servers Internet message access protocol IMAP or others. As illustrated the recipient of the media enabled message may receive and view the message and access enhanced content associated with that message via a media server and other resources as described herein.

As more particularly illustrated in the media enabled message may contain various constituent parts including message header which may be or include email address date time subject and other data as well as a set of linkable media objects . As illustrated the set of linkable media objects may be or include a set of comparatively compact or modest resolution graphical images. Those images may be or include for example digital images downloaded by the user from a digital camera camera equipped cellular phone or other types of images stored for example in Joint Photographic Experts Group .JPG or other formats. In embodiments linkable media objects may likewise be or include other types or mixed types of media such as video clips such as those in Windows AVI format or audio samples or files such as those in MP3 MPEG Audio or other formats. Other media types formats files and sources are possible.

As illustrated in any one or more or all of the linkable media objects may be selectable or activatable by the recipient of the media enabled message such as by operating a mouse cursor or other element of user interface . Clicking or otherwise linking or activating any one or more of the linkable media objects may automatically and transparently invoke a media player such as the player illustrated in . As illustrated selecting one mountain image among the set of linkable media objects shown in may initiate a browser or other tool as shown in in which or in conjunction with which a slideshow type or other media player may execute or operate to present an enhanced representation of the selected media object. As illustrated that enhanced representation in the case of an image may be or include a higher resolution version of the image. That enhanced representation may be automatically downloaded or accessed from media server upon activating the selected one of the linkable media objects . The user browsing their email and choosing to view selected media objects from their email inbox or other messaging service may therefore be given an impression of continuousness within their email activity insofar as no separate action by the user to retrieve and view or play the enhanced content is required. It may be noted that in embodiments the media player or other media presentation tool may present the enhanced representation of the one or more selected linkable media objects from within the running email client or other tool itself rather than opening a new browser or other window. Other interfaces and types of presentation are possible.

In terms of the composition of the media enabled message as illustrated in the user who is selecting and arranging media content for the message may be presented with a composition interface for instance within or in conjunction with an email client or other messaging tool. As illustrated the composition interface may include or present a grouping of drop down image selection preview editing layout captioning and other tools and utilities to permit the sending user to embed images and other media in media enabled message according to their preferences and selected styles.

When operated in conjunction with an email client such as the Microsoft Network MSN email client Outlook or Outlook Express for example the user may click different options on composition interface to insert a group of digital images such as uploaded camera or other files. When the user has inserted images and clicks the send option the media enabled message may be transferred to an email Outbox which transfer may take a brief amount of time. Upon arriving in the email Outbox an upload of the full resolution or otherwise enhanced images corresponding to the inserted linkable media objects may be automatically initiated to the media server or other repository or other destination. If the upload process for instance via Internet connection fails or stalls unexpectedly in embodiments such exceptions may be trapped and uploading may be automatically resumed without user intervention.

In embodiments the media enabled message arriving in the email Outbox may be placed into a separate queue from other non media email so that transfers may continue in parallel and not slow down or affect the transmission of those text based or other messages. It may be noted that in embodiments if a hard crash of the media server connections to network or other resources occurs which prevents successful transfer of the high resolution images the user may be alerted with a message for instance via pop box or return email that the upload did not complete. In those cases the sender of the media enabled message may for example be given the option of trying the upload again later or transmitting a version of media enabled message which limits the recipient to viewing the lower resolution versions of the linkable media objects contained in the message itself. In further embodiments the composition interface may be used to compose email messages or other types of media enabled message while the sending user is offline with the image or other files stored to go to the email Outbox upon connection to the network or other times. Other types of user notification and traffic management are possible.

In embodiments the linkable media objects contained in the media enabled message may contain digital signatures or fingerprints for various purposes including digital rights management storage and distribution control. For example the linkable media objects may each contain a fingerprint which may include a unique identifier for the encoded image for instance prevent duplicate storage of the image or other object uploaded to media server . Other data such as the upload date or other information may also be encoded. This may permit the owner or operator of the media server such as an Internet service provider or other to manage the storage of the images and other content on databases and other resources. In embodiments each of the linkable media objects may be given a predetermined life span such as 30 days or other periods of time to conserve and manage storage resources. In other embodiments the digital signatures incorporated in the linkable media objects may control types and manner of distribution for instance to permit or not permit editing of images or permit or not permit reproduction of encoded music or other media. Other types of security and control are possible.

Overall message processing according to an embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . In step a user may select a Photos or other media option on composition interface or other interface and click on a Send in Email option. Processing may then proceed to step . In step an email client application programming interface API may be called to generate an email as the media enabled message . That message may contain selected digital images or photographs as the one or more linkable media objects . Processing may then proceed to step .

Alternatively in step a user may initiate the composition of a new email message or other message format for instance using an email client or other application. Processing may then proceed to step .

Alternatively in step a user may share rolls of developed images or other media from an analog film development page or other Web or other source. Processing may then proceed to step . In step an email client API or other application programming or other interface may be invoked to generate a new email or other media enabled message which in the case of content generated from an analog film development Web page or other source may contain HTML code including a link to shared photos or other media as linkable media objects . Processing may then proceed to step .

Alternatively in step a user may forward reply to or otherwise respond to an existing media enabled message containing one or more linkable media objects for instance to add additional media objects to the media enabled message . Processing may then proceed to step .

In step processing may proceed to execute an email client or other messaging application or tool for instance to compose edit add captions or otherwise arrange the layout and content of one or more linkable media objects in media enabled message .

In step a user may click or activate an option to Insert Photos in composition interface or other interface. In step an email client or other application may call an associated API to initiate a photo picker or other tool. In step the photo picker or other tool may return the user s selection of photos video clips audio samples or other media. In step the new photos or other linkable media objects may be added to the email or other media enabled message . Processing may then return to the editor processing of step .

In step a user may click or activate a preview online slideshow in the composition interface . In step a slideshow viewer or other media player or other tool may be activated. In step a user may close the slideshow viewer or other media player or other tool.

In step after editing activity in step or other steps a user may click or activate a send option. Activating the send option may according to the invention in one regard appear no different to the sender than operating or sending a non media enabled email message since publishing activity is automatically invoked. In step the email or other media enabled message may be transmitted to an outbox during which time the user may in embodiments be presented with the status of the publishing of the media enabled message to media server or other resource. In step the email or other client may call an associated API to publish the digital images or photographs or other media during which time the media enabled message may remain in an outbox. In step a digital photo or other tool may publish the photographs or other media as the linkable media objects to media server and may return a final URL specifying a location of the linkable media objects accessible via media enabled message . The digital photo or other tool may also update any expiration dates contained in or associated with linkable media objects including for any forwarded or shared content. During this time the media enabled message may remain in an email outbox or other queue or holding place.

In step the email client or other messaging client or tool may update the media enabled message with the final URL or URLs for the linkable media objects and transmit the media enabled message to the recipient. In the case of an email client the media enabled message or a representation of that message may then be placed in a sent box or other messaging box or folder.

The foregoing description of the invention is illustrative and modifications in configuration and implementation will occur to persons skilled in the art. For instance while the invention has generally been described in terms of one or more email messages which embed low resolution or thumbnail representations of stored images in embodiments other media such as audio clips streamed video or other types or combinations of types of media may be incorporated.

Similarly while the invention has in embodiments been described as generating email messages which embed those media objects in embodiments other types or formats of messages or messaging such as online chat forums Web logs or others may embed or transmit media according to the invention. Further while the invention has been described as accessing a single media server in implementations multiple servers may be accessed and each serve one or more types of files or media. In embodiments distributed media servers if used may operate on a peer to peer rather than client server basis. Other hardware software or other resources described as singular may in embodiments be distributed and similarly in embodiments resources described as distributed may be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

