---

title: Relaxed tolerance optical interconnect systems
abstract: An optical interconnect system having a first optical sub-system and a second optical sub-system, each optical sub-system having a first end and a second end, and further having a preselected length, and a preselected width. Means are fixedly secured to the first end of the optical sub-system for emitting electromagnetic radiation and means are fixedly secured to said second end of said optical sub-system for receiving the emitted electromagnetic radiation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07446298&OS=07446298&RS=07446298
owner: Wavefront Research, Inc.
number: 07446298
owner_city: Bethlehem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060320
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 675 873 entitled RELAXED TOLERANCE OPTICAL INTERCONNECT SYSTEMS filed on Sep. 29 2003 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 425 551 entitled RELAXED TOLERANCE OPTICAL INTERCONNECT SYSTEMS filed on Oct. 22 1999 which claims priority of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 105 251 entitled OPTICAL DATA PIPE filed Oct. 22 1998 by the present inventor.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support from the Missile Defense Agency and U.S. Air Force under contract FA8750 04 C 0250. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to interconnection systems and more particularly to alignment tolerant dense optical interconnect systems which incorporate the use of rod lenses.

With the advent of substantial new performance levels in high bandwidth digital and analog electro optic systems there exists a greater need to provide dense alignment tolerant interconnection capability. This is especially true in digital computing systems in analog systems such as phased array radar and in high bandwidth optical carriers in communication systems. However it should be realized that these are just several of numerous systems which benefit from application of high bandwidth electro optic interconnection.

In many current and future systems light beams are modulated in a digital and or analog fashion and used as optical carriers of information. There are many reasons why light beams or optical carriers are preferred in these applications. For example as the data rate required of such channels increases the high optical frequencies provide a tremendous improvement in available bandwidth over conventional electrical channels such as formed by wires and coaxial cables. In addition the energy required to drive and carry high bandwidth signals can be reduced at optical frequencies. Further optical channels even those propagating in free space without waveguides such as optical fibers can be packed closely and even intersect in space with greatly reduced crosstalk between channels.

Conventional electrical interconnection over wires or traces is reaching severe performance limits due to density power crosstalk time delay and complexity. For example chip scaling continues to provide for a doubling of transistors on a chip every 18 months. A 2 cm 2 cm chip currently requires 2 km of wires or traces for interconnection with 6 layers of metal and the complexity exponentiates with the number of metal layers. With designs using 0.18 micron wires 60 of the delay is from the interconnects themselves. In shrinking from 0.5 micron wires to 0.18 micron wires on chip the rc time constant increases by a factor of 10. Using optical interconnection the power dissipation does not scale with the length of interconnection and optical interconnects are superior for short signal rise times. Similar advantages of optical interconnection over electrical interconnection pertain to longer range interconnection e.g. from chip to chip intra board inter board and computer to peripheral.

Other optical interconnect approaches suffer from critical alignment tolerances restrictive focusing component separation and vibration tolerance requirements insertion loss which limits speed and power efficiency bulky and large footprint optical systems limited density and scalability lack of physical flexibility and compliance of the interconnect and the need to provide an excessively protective environment in order to maintain optical alignment over time.

It is therefore an object of this invention to provide a high density many parallel interconnected channels in a small volume optical interconnect system that can optically interconnect tens hundreds or thousands of high bandwidth channels with a technology that is flexible and alignment tolerant.

It is another object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system in which the component optical and electro optical components are arranged in a single monolithic unit.

It is another object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that provides a nearly lossless one to one optical interconnection from a set of input channels to a set of output channels.

It is another object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that by virtue of its low insertion loss can provide very high speed bidirectional interconnection among dense two dimensionally packed interconnected channels.

It is another object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that can interconnect over distances spanning millimeters to tens of meters or longer.

It is further an object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that can be pre aligned during manufacture and is thus readily fieldable by non optically trained personnel.

It is further an object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect across single die or integrated circuit substrate inside multi chip modules between die between modules or components between boards between computers between computers and peripherals or between peripherals.

It is still further an object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that uses a small fraction of device area that would be required for arrays of traces wires or waveguides.

It is still further an object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that is capable of bending and flexing to accommodate components that shift relative to each other while maintaining interconnection of many parallel optical channels among the shifting components.

It is still further an object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that interconnects many parallel optical channels among components while maintaining relative insensitivity to longitudinal and lateral shifts between the interconnected components.

It is still further an object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that can be disconnected and reconnected simply while maintaining alignment among many parallel optical channels.

It is still further an object of this invention to provide a high density optical interconnect system that provides for a uniform delay for all channels thus minimizing relative signal skews.

The objects set forth above as well as further and other objects and advantages of the present invention are achieved by the embodiments of the invention described hereinbelow.

The present invention overcomes problems associated with size power crosstalk and speed associated with conventional electrical interconnects and overcomes problems with alignment tolerance in conventional optical interconnection. In a preferred embodiment of The optical interconnect system or optical data pipe approach of the present invention although not limited thereto mating emitter and detector arrays are pre aligned and fixed on or near the ends of a gradient index rod imager and this flexible pre aligned structure is then mounted to the host. In another preferred embodiment of the present invention the emitter and detector arrays are pre aligned and fixed on one end of an infinite conjugate imager forming alignment tolerant high density optical interconnect modules. Using this technology which includes the various embodiments of this invention hundreds or thousands of high bandwidth channels can be interconnected for short distances intra die between neighboring chips or MCMs or over relatively long distances full board wrap around board to board computer to peripheral computer to computer etc. . The optical interconnect system of this invention provides a nearly lossless one to one optical interconnection from a set of input channels to a set of output channels and supports extreme density low power and low crosstalk for high bandwidth signals.

One of many advantages of the system of this invention is that it can be pre aligned and fixed during manufacture e.g. using automated alignment and cementing procedures to produce optical interconnects that have greatly relaxed alignment tolerances and are thus readily usable in the field by non optical personnel. The interconnection systems of the present invention are thus tolerant of handling bending and displacements among interconnected components without losing their function of interconnecting many closely packed dense optical channels. Other advantages of this invention relate to the fact that it is tolerant of misalignments vibrations etc.

For a better understanding of the present invention together with other and further objects reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and its scope will be pointed out in the appended claims.

If an optical interconnect approach is to have a significant impact in practice it must possess a variety of desirable characteristics including in particular a tolerance for misalignments and alignment variations among the interconnected components. These areas are highlighted and described briefly hereafter 

The term discrete optical element is used herein to denote an optical element such as a lens a mirror a diffractive element etc. other than a GRIN rod lens.

The term redirecting optical component is used herein to denote an optical component in which a direction of propagation of the electromagnetic radiation at the output of the optical component is substantially different from a direction of propagation of the electromagnetic radiation at the input to the optical component. Exemplary redirecting optical components include but had not limited to mirrors and prisms.

The general optical interconnection problem addressed by the present invention is shown in . Here there are two planes A and A of densely packed emitters and detectors that are interconnected by an optical interconnect . For clarity not shown are the drivers for the emitters and amplifiers for the detectors. In general each of the planes contain both emitters and detectors to enable bi directional communication. The emitters are sources of electromagnetic radiation in this application equivalently referred to as optical radiation optical signals or light . The electromagnetic radiation can be modulated to carry information that originated for example on electrical signals and the electromagnetic radiation has a higher frequency than that of the information it carries. For example the emitters can be sources of electromagnetic radiation in the infrared visible or ultraviolet spectral bands. This emitted electromagnetic radiation can then be modulated with information including frequencies and data rates ranging from DC to many gigahertz and higher. The detectors then receive the electromagnetic radiation and extract the information usually in the form of electrical signals. The terms electromagnetic radiation optical signals and light are used to refer to the high frequency electromagnetic radiation carrier described above and are distinguished from the information carried by the optical interconnect system and the input and output electrical signals which can also be electromagnetic in nature. The optical interconnect systems described below of the present invention couple electromagnetic radiation from corresponding optical channels or among mating emitters and detectors with the features described above.

One of the two primary limiting approaches to this optical interconnect problem is the macro optical approach. In macro optics a single optical system is used to simultaneously image the entire array of optical channels from emitter array to detector array. A typical prior art macro optical imaging approach is illustrated in . Here a single lens system is used to simultaneously image many optical channels between planes and . The optical channels are arrayed in the optical field extent of width W. Key parameters for such a system are the field extent W field angle of width spot size or resolution or d and stop of diameter D.

In the classic or prior art macro optic approach the tradeoffs are very well defined. The lens required to maintain small spot sizes d over a large device field W grows rapidly in complexity. For example the spot size d of even a perfect lens is limited by diffractive spreading of the light through the finite aperture of the lens. If there were no aberrations in the lens the spot size can be shrunk as far as to the order of a wavelength of the imaged light by increasing the stop diameter D or equivalently by increasing the numerical aperture of the system which is proportional to the sine of .

However in practice there are always aberrations present. A major goal of the design of this prior art type of interconnect lens system is to reduce the magnitude of sum of the aberrations present to the order or magnitude of the desired spot size. Rather than attempting to eliminate each of the aberrations they are balanced so that they form a net aberration magnitude that is acceptable. In order to accomplish this difficult task many degrees of freedom are introduced including split and multiple elements refractive surface curvatures spacings glass choice apertures etc.

Perhaps the largest limitation in the macro optic approach is the lack of scalability of a given lens system. If there is a diffraction limited lens system that performs acceptably with spot size d over a field of extent W a natural approach to increasing the covered field and thus the number of optical channels that can be interconnected is to scale up the size of the lens system by a factor s. In this process linear dimensions are scaled and angles are preserved. Accordingly the larger field with the same spot size should in principle provide for more independent optical channels. After scaling the lens the diffraction limited spot size remains the same. However when scaling is performed the forms of the aberrations remain the same but their magnitude is scaled by s. As a result the balance of aberrations that was acceptable prior to scaling is no longer adequate. The net aberration magnitudes which were in balance with the spot size prior to scaling can scale larger than the desired spot size. As a result of the larger actual spot sizes the scaled up field extent W can in practice eliminate any net increase of optical channels that are interconnected. The only alternative is to redesign the scaled lens in hope of reducing the magnitude of aberrations of the larger lens to the same magnitude which the lens had prior to scaling.

A further drawback for the macro optic approach remains. If a single lens is used to image using finite conjugates arrays of emitters and detectors there is still the unreasonable alignment sensitivity between the two planes. Relative motions between either of the planes on the order of the detector sizes will be catastrophic.

The other major limiting approach to the optical interconnect problem described above is the micro optic approach. With micro optics many much simpler parallel optical systems are used to image the many optical channels one at a time. These micro optic elements are therefore arrayed in the parallel optical channels. This prior art approach is illustrated in where two arrays of devices A and A are imaged with an array of simple refractive or diffractive micro lenses . The channels are interconnected by many isolated optical beams .

In this micro optic limit there is an imaging lens for each device. Since the device can be placed on the axis of symmetry of the simple lens elements the performance of the lens does not need to be maintained over an extended field as was the case with the macro optic limit. As a result the complexity and size of the lens can be greatly scaled down. Further another distinct advantage here is that there is a trivial scaling requirement which now simply amounts to extending the size of the device array and corresponding size of the microlens array. This is in sharp contrast to the complex scaling problems in the macro optic approach described previously.

There remains a significant problem however with the micro optic approach to high density optical interconnection. This is due to the presence of diffractive crosstalk among neighboring optical channels. Diffractive spreading from the aperture of each of the microlenses causes light to couple into neighboring channels resulting in crosstalk. The larger the aperture of the microlenses the smaller is this diffraction spreading effect. However since the neighboring lenses cannot overlap reducing diffractive crosstalk forms a major performance tradeoff with density of the interconnection.

From a geometrical analysis augmented by results from diffraction theory it can be shown that the optical signals in the parallel channels can propagate a critical distance Lc before the beam augmented by diffraction will cross over into the neighboring channel i.e. until the crosstalk becomes significant. This critical distance is given by 2 1 where D is the microlens aperture and is the communication wavelength.

Thus for a device spacing and microlens aperture of 100 microns the beams can only propagate for a few millimeters before crosstalk is significant. Increasing the aperture of the microlenses results in a squared effect on the crosstalk free propagation distance but if a large relay distance is required for the signals the sought after high density of the optical channels must be sacrificed in order to prevent diffractive crosstalk.

A first preferred embodiment of the relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system of the present invention is the fixed point to point monolithic optical data pipe illustrated in where the term optical data pipe may also be referred to herein on occasion as optical interconnect . Here mating interconnection planes and are affixed preferably by an adhesive cement on the ends of a gradient index GRIN rod imager and this flexible pre aligned structure is then mounted to the components and of host which provides dense interconnection. The interconnection planes and can contain emitters detectors or general optical channel ports such as arrays of free space channels or guided wave fiber channels or the like. This device is capable of very high channel densities on the order of hundreds along a cross section of only a few millimeters. Using demonstrated Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Microlaser VCSEL technology each of these channels is capable of multi gigahertz data rates at these high spatial densities. The small insertion loss allows high data rates and low power consumption. Negligible temporal skews are generated once the optical signals are generated in the optical data pipe independent of the length of the link millimeters to feet . A distinct advantage of the monolithic construction of the optical data pipe is that it is very tolerant of flexure and relative misalignments between the components being interconnected.

In the optical interconnect system of the present invention also referred to as an optical data pipe a gradient index GRIN0 rod is used as a data pipe for conducting hundreds of high bandwidth optical interconnections with little crosstalk. This high density optical data pipe is formed by pre aligning and permanently affixing mated emitter and detector arrays to or near the ends of a gradient index GRIN rod lens imager. This rod lens images the optical channels emitters or detectors onto each other as conjugate image planes. The magnification can be unity or non unity in this imaging operation. The monolithic end to end connection of device planes and and rod lens forms a flexible pre aligned structure capable of interconnecting hundreds of high bandwidth optical channels in a digital computer environment.

The gradient index rod lens forms the backbone of the relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system of the present invention. The rod lens can be made with a broad range of diameters and lengths by controlling the gradient of the refractive index profile. The rod lens is typically 0.2 mm 5.0 mm in diameter and can image with high resolution from rod face to rod face over distances from millimeters to many meters.

In the optical data pipe the interconnected planes and of optical channels are rigidly fixed as an integral part of the system. This link can then be mounted to interconnect multichip modules MCMs dies or boards. This type of interconnection is illustrated in where MCMs and are interconnected with optical data pipe . Similarly drivers amplifiers and supporting electronics can be grouped in place of MCMs and to form a plug replaceable optical interconnect component which is flexible and alignment tolerant. This flexible device offers relaxed alignment sensitivities with very high density of interconnected channels. For example hundreds of multi GHz channels can be interconnected through a cylinder that is 2 mm in diameter and which can be several millimeters to meters long. The optical data pipe can be used for short range or long range e.g. board wrap around high density communication that is established with transceiver modules that include drivers amplifiers and other support for the pre aligned emitter and detector arrays and rod lens.

The data pipe or optical interconnect system of the present invention has the benefit of relaxed alignment sensitivity since the critical elements are rigidly pre aligned on the gradient index rod lens. Further since the rod is flex tolerant as shown below misalignments and vibrations can be tolerated without interrupting the optical data communication. Additional benefits include a high channel density of high bandwidth optical channels with negligible crosstalk or optically added signal skews and sparse use of board real estate. This device can be used for dense short range and long range interconnection. An important part of the present invention is to pre align and rigidly couple the emitters and detectors to ends only of the flexible gradient index GRIN rod lens thus forming a robust data pipe which is tolerant of stresses vibrations and misalignments typical in high performance computer and application environments.

The optical data pipe while only typically on the order of several mm s in diameter can relay hundreds of channels over distances spanning millimeters for MCM to MCM communication several tens of centimeters for processor array wrap around across a board etc. or even meters for applications such as linking supercomputers to external memory. This high density interconnection is accomplished with low loss and clean imaging and extreme densities.

The channels in the optical data pipe can be packed with extreme density. For example the optical channel pitch for emitters such as vertical cavity surface emitting microlasers VCSELS can be 125 microns or closer and still permit simultaneous operation due to recent VCSEL technology innovations. If a 32 32 VCSEL array has a 62.5 micron pitch 1024 optical channels could fit in a 2 mm square. The key to these higher densities lies in reducing the heat and thermal crosstalk between neighboring channels. It is expected that simultaneous CW operation of arrays such as these with smaller pitches e.g. 125 or 62.5 micron pitches are possible.

Higher densities may also be achieved through arranging the VCSEL devices on a hexagonally packed grid. The VCSEL array may be hexagonally packed in a circular array and for bi directional links emitters and detectors may be tiled in some fashion on a single die.

The fieldability and ruggedness of the optical data pipe or optical interconnect system of the present invention can be increased in several ways. For example the ends of the GRIN rod lens may be rigidly affixed to the hosting MCMs. In this way the natural flexibility of the data pipe can be used to absorb misalignments and vibrations among the circuit component ends. Accordingly the strain relief clamps shown in can be used to fix the GRIN rod lens rigidly to the transceiver modules and since the GRIN rod lens is flexible it can be used to absorb flexures and misalignments.

For many applications it is natural for the optical data pipe or optical interconnect system of this invention to lie parallel to a circuit board and in those cases it may be more practical to have the emitter and detector arrays mounted parallel to the board rather than at an angle to it. This need can be accommodated by modifying the gradient profile of the rod lens so that conjugate planes are imaged off the end face of the rod. This permits the device arrays to be mounted on prisms or sub assemblies as shown in . Here the end of the rod lens is affixed to a prism mirror which directs the light toward the board. While the optical channel plane is remote from the end of the rod it is still fixed with respect to the rod end such as by cementing it to the prism mirror . An array of drivers and receivers can also be attached with interleaving flexible electrical connectors optionally used to provide further alignment tolerance to component contact pads .

In a prism is used to fold the optical path at a right angle so the die can be more easily electrically connected to the host. Flexure connections such as s springs can optionally be used to allow for small displacements as may be generated thermally.

Making use of the natural flexibility of the GRIN rod lens is an important feature of this invention. The GRIN rod lens of The optical interconnect system of this invention can be bent and the alignment of the channels is maintained as illustrated in the photograph sequence of . Optical channels remain fixed with respect to the rod lens end as the long rod lens is bent with end displacements of 0.1 0.4 0.7 and 1.0 mm in photographs A B C and D respectively. As the GRIN rod lens is deflected while carrying the image of an array of 8 VCSELs the output face of the lens was photographed with a CCD camera and the output image remains essentially fixed in position on the output face. Thus when a detector array is pre aligned and affixed on the face deflections and misalignments of this order of magnitude can be tolerated without appreciable deleterious effects on the dense interconnection of the optical channels.

Quantitative data was also obtained where it was shown that for a deflection of 6 mm the optical channels are deflected by less than 10 microns if at all. Insensitivity of optical channel location with vibrations and misalignments are accommodated by the present optical interconnect system is a major feature of this invention.

A typical circuit board application for The optical interconnect system of this invention is illustrated schematically in . Here remote MCMs or devices are interconnected with hundreds of high bandwidth low crosstalk low skew channels using optical data pipes on board and with very efficient use of board real estate. In each case the optical data pipe is flexible and connected rigidly at its ends only to the interconnected components. Other board placement variations which can be accomplished by the optical interconnect system of this invention similarly include for example board to board side connection board to board edge connection and system to system interconnection.

A further embodiment of this invention involves the use of a GRIN rod lens which is curved and still interconnect optical channel planes and as shown in . This curving rod may be obtained by heating a straight rod lens.

In micro optic lens arrays are shown to reduce the divergence angle numerical aperture of the light beams channels emanating from optical channel plane . The smaller numerical apertures of the light beams incident on the rod lens can improve the transmission through the rod lens and lower the required numerical aperture of the rod lens used in the optical data pipe . This same technique is useful for an optical interconnect system of this invention where the planes and are spaced apart from the ends of the rod lens. In such as case the light beams can be nearly collimated and directed toward the rod lens face thereby reducing or eliminating light loss.

Another embodiment of the relaxed tolerance interconnect system of the present invention is shown in which relaxes alignment tolerances by mounting symmetric infinite conjugate rod lens imagers and which may be in the form of GRIN rod lenses in pairs in front of mating optical channel planes and . This inherently relaxes alignment sensitivities to gap width and lateral translation because beams from each channel are wide collimated plane waves in the gap region . Lateral shifts of the order of channel spacing in plane are usually devastating in micro optic interconnection schemes but result in very little loss with this embodiment of the present invention. Similarly longitudinal motions that increase or decrease the gap region produce only a slow walk off of channel throughput and do not alter the tightly focused conjugate channel imaging in planes and . An optional alignment sleeve or collar can be used to make the interconnect easily disconnectable and reconnectable. A keyed groove in collar can be used to prevent rotational mis alignment.

The relaxed tolerance approach of this invention as shown in results in wide insensitivity to lateral and longitudinal misalignments parallel and perpendicular to the direction of the alignment gap which is critical for practical application. However there is still pronounced sensitivity to tilts between the two interconnection planes. Spacers may be used see below in some configurations to reduce the presence of tilts. Alternatively if the collar is used but kept much shorter than the rod lens lengths the same type of flexure benefit obtained in the optical data pipes described in earlier embodiments is retained since the rods can flex. Such flexure here too is with no ill effects since the collar maintains the alignment at the infinite conjugate interface region where gap width tolerances are also relaxed. This cutting of the optical data pipe or optical interconnect system at infinite conjugate locations of the internal imaging adds an additional longitudinal alignment compliance to the system described earlier.

The relaxed tolerance interconnect of can be used to provide parallel optical interconnection from board to board and similar scenarios. For example illustrates the relaxed tolerance interconnect system linking channels between boards or MCMs and . If no collar is used spacers may be used to keep the boards parallel and thus angularly aligned.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the infinite conjugate relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . This system includes a pair of transceiver modules each comprising a carrier transceiver die and infinite conjugate rod lens . The rod lens is pre aligned over the transceiver array and cemented in place using an optical polymer or similar cement which also acts as a structural potting compound. The transceiver die may be wirebonded solder bump bonded or electrically contacted by similar means to the carrier. The carrier may be a ceramic pin grid array ball grid array or leadless chip carrier or other means for electrically connecting the transceiver die. There is a gap between the two modules. These mating modules can be mounted on separate boards for board to board interconnection or alternatively they may be mounted on neighboring circuits chips MCMs multi chip modules etc. in which case the carrier may be eliminated or replaced with a carrier also holding the circuits to be interconnected e.g. incorporated directly in a MCM .

A breakthrough degree of angular tolerance between the optical data pipe transceiver modules of system can be achieved by proper choice of detector element sizes with respect to the imaged spot size on the detectors in this optical interconnect system. A detailed example of the wide angular tolerance available in this infinite conjugate relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system is described in .

The transceiver die of can consist of tiled arrays of emitters and detectors together with supporting circuitry for driving of the emitters and amplifying the output of the detectors See . These transceiver die consisting of both emitters and detectors allows for bi directional interconnection. For simplicity in the following angular alignment tolerance discussion however illustrates the uni directional case of an emitter array which is imaged onto a detector receiver array .

Other parameters chosen for this case study include commercial off the shelf gradient index rod lenses with a diameter of 4 mm rod lens lengths of 10.24 mm VCSEL wavelength 830 nm VCSEL emission cone angle 15 degrees air . A gap has been provided between die and lens surfaces to allow wire bond relief. The boards on which the transceiver modules of are mounted are not shown in . .

The operation of this Broad Angle Tolerant Optical Data Pipe is illustrated in . . Additional parameters chosen for this numerical case study are shown in . The VCSEL array consists of individual VCSELs that are located on an array pitch of 250 microns. The lateral extent of the array is 2 mm full width sup porting 9 VCSELs in that dimension. This can represent for example a cut through a circularly apertured hexagonally packed array of elements or alternatively a 9 9 array of VCSELs. As described earlier the VCSELs and receivers may be tiled in the corresponding 2 D array for bi directional interconnection. In the emitters and detectors are shown to scale in 1 dimension and are located in arrays with a 250 micron pitch. The active VCSEL apertures have been exaggerated in the figure.

The detectors are modeled with a 240 micron wide active area and a 10 micron dead space separating the active areas. For reference later in the example six special elements have been identified in the top edge VCSEL and top edge detector the bottom edge VCSEL and bottom edge detector and the central VCSEL and central detector . The size and location of imaged spots defined through raytrace calculations will be illustrated in for each of these three limiting cases.

The parameters of this case study were chosen as a typical example with which to demonstrate the very large angular alignment tolerances. Related scenarios with other parameters e.g. with larger or smaller detector sizes follow accordingly. For example if very large single channel bandwidths are required smaller detector active areas may be desirable and will be accompanied by reduced angular alignment tolerances. Experiments were performed however illustrating a wide angular alignment tolerance even with 100 micron detector apertures.

Now the case where one of the modules is tilted with respect to the other is considered. This tilt represents an angular alignment error between the modules or the boards that they are mounted on. illustrates the board to board ODP modules used to interconnect circuit boards that are tilted by 1.4 degrees. The air gap between the modules is maintained at 2.6 mm and the second module is tilted with respect to the first by 1.4 degrees as shown in . In this figure the 1.4 degree tilt between the modules is clearly visible.

As a result of the tilt the spots imaged by the interconnect translate across the detector plane. This translation of the imaged spots is shown to scale in and is based on real raytrace data. The tilt angle of 1.4 degrees was chosen since it still allows for essentially all the light from the optical channels to fall on their respective detector elements i.e. no vignetting . This tilt represents a total tilt budget. In practice this 1.4 degree angular alignment budget can be distributed between tilt of the boards themselves and other tilt sources including tilt of the carriers in their sockets etc.

The calculation described above illustrates that a remarkable angular misalignment of 1.4 degrees can be tolerated between the two Optical Data Pipe modules while still allowing for nearly lossless non vignetted imaging in the optical interconnect.

As described above both a longitudinal separation of several millimeters between paired ODP transceiver modules and an angular tilt allowance of 1.4 degrees between such modules can be simultaneously tolerated. These wide angular tolerances have a very important impact for practical optical interconnect applications. For example consider a pair of computer boards each measuring 10 20 inches in length inserted in a computer with a separation that is 2 4 mm larger on one end of the board than the other. This magnitude of board parallelism tolerance is not difficult to maintain with simple conventional connectors and manufacturing practices. For this case the angular tilt between the neighboring board planes is on the order of 0.5 degrees or just more than of the tilt tolerance of 1.4 degrees. Further typical carriers such as pin grid arrays or leadless chip carriers can also be inserted repeatedly with small angular tolerances. Further it is straightforward to cement or pot the rod lens in an alignment jig during manufacture that assures angular misalignments of a fraction of a degree. Taken together with the lateral and gap tolerances of millimeters these results indicate that the Optical Data Pipe modules can simply be mounted on neighboring boards and will allow 60 to hundreds of channels to be reliably optically interconnected without the need to introduce special high precision alignment aids current off the shelf tolerances for backplanes and computers are typically sufficient.

Similarly the approach is practical in terms of board to board separation. In addition to the several millimeters or more tolerance on separation the interconnected boards can be spaced by relatively large distances since rod lenses can be used with integral multiples of additional half pitch lengths incorporated with little deleterious effect.

Further optimization in performance can be obtained with hexagonally packed arrays of emitters and detectors receivers as mentioned earlier. One of many such hexagonally packed device layouts is shown in die layout of . Here the centers of VCSELs and detectors are located on a regular hexagonal grid. The detector apertures are shown to scale assuming a 300 micron diameter and are shown inside a 4 mm circle representing the edge of a typical off the shelf rod lens. The tiling shown including both emitters and detectors allows for bi directional interconnection. Variations that are not centered in a device allow for a single mask set for both sides of the interconnect. Alternatively the unidirectional form contains a hexagonal grid of emitters facing a matching hexagonal grid of detectors receivers . The hexagonal packing the devices gives the advantages of simple conformity to the circular fields of typical lenses and improved crosstalk performance. Since the distance to the nearest neighbor is more uniform than in Cartesian grids a higher density can often be obtained with a given level of acceptable crosstalk.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the infinite conjugate relaxed tolerance optical data pipe transceiver module shown schematically in . This optical data pipe module is similar in function to each of the symmetric pair of modules illustrated in the relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . In the transceiver module however the infinite conjugate gradient index rod lens shown in is replaced by conventional refractive spherical or aspherical lens elements forming a substantially infinite conjugate imaging system. The infinite conjugate imaging system formed by refractive elements is pre aligned over the optical channel array as earlier and fixed in place using optical cement or fixture . This pre alignment both aligns the optical channel array with respect to the optical axis of the imaging system formed by lens elements and provides any required focal displacement so that the light emanating from each of the channels in optical channel array is substantially collimated into an array or spectrum of substantially collimated light waves or beams.

The discrete spatially separated optical channels of optical channel array are thus transformed into spatially overlapping but discrete angularly separated optical channels . These light paths are reversible so that the optical data pipe module can equivalently transform an incident array of spatially overlapping discrete angularly separated optical channels into any array of discrete spatially separated optical channels .

The relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system of the present invention is schematically illustrated in . This relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system includes two optical data pipe transceiver modules symmetrically facing each other. Interconnect system optically interconnects optical channel array and optical channel array . Optical channels in optical channel array are imaged onto corresponding optical channels in optical channel array and vice versa. Because light emanating from each of the optical channels in arrays and are transformed substantially into spatially broad plain waves in the gap region effects of transverse misalignments between the two modules are greatly reduced as described earlier. Similarly since the waves in the gap region are substantially collimated effects from longitudinal variations in the length to the gap region are also greatly reduced as described earlier. Additionally by choosing a relatively large detector diameter compared to the imaged spot size breakthrough degrees of angular and rotational tolerance are also readily obtained as described earlier.

The infinite conjugate imagers in this invention image the input optical channels into substantially collimated waves in the gap region . By substantially collimated it is meant for example that the real or virtual focal distances for these waves is much larger than the imagers themselves or the gap region .

The optical channels in optical channel array and can consist of emitters such as VCSELs light emitting diodes luminous objects waveguides or the like or detectors such as photodiodes thermopiles or the like. The channel to channel interconnections maybe unidirectional or bidirectional or a mixture of each.

Although the lens elements of the optical data pipe transceiver module are shown as conventional spherical or aspherical refractive lens elements in other embodiments of the current invention these elements may contain optical power with refractive reflective diffractive or gradient index components or combinations thereof as practiced in the art of lens design. Similarly the focal lengths aperture and pupil sizes and locations degree of telecentricity F and angular and spatial fields of view can be varied in order to optimize alignment tolerances and interconnect system performance for various applications as is practiced in the art of optical system design. For example pairing optical data pipe transceiver modules each with differing focal length can result in a magnification or demagnification between imaged optical channel arrays which may be useful for particular interconnected devices or for maximizing alignment tolerances. Similarly it is often desirable for the infinite conjugate imaging systems to be telecentric and to allow for the spectrum of collimated optical channels to be substantially transversely aligned in an output pupil. This allows for an extended tolerance to variations in gap separation before the various collimated optical channels which are propagating at differing angles substantially walk off from each other and potentially the entrance pupil of the next module.

Another advantage of the optical data pipe transceiver module is that the component materials can be selected to provide special characteristics such as tolerance to the high temperatures vibrations shock chemicals radiation or other harsh environmental conditions. For example the lens element may be fabricated from fused silica to provide high temperature performance. Selecting the materials a lens design may be optimized to enable very broad spectral performance or performance over multiple spectral bands. Still another advantage over gradient index rod lenses is that optical data pipe transceiver modules can be designed with apertures much larger than 4 mm in diameter where graded index rod lenses larger than 4 mm in diameter begin to grow rapidly in both cost and required diffusion time for fabrication.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the right angle relaxed tolerance optical data pipe transceiver module shown in . In this right angle optical data pipe module the optical path is folded using a reflective surface that is incorporated into the optical elements of the infinite conjugate imaging system. As before the optical channel array which may consist for example of an optoelectronic die is pre aligned and fixed to the infinite conjugate imaging elements by adhesive or fixture .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the right angle relaxed tolerance optical data pipe transceiver module shown in . In this embodiment the lens elements of the infinite conjugate imaging system are designed to provide a longer relief distance to the focal plane and a fold mirror or prism is introduced together with an optional spacer in order to provide a right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe module and optional elevation of the lens elements above the plane containing the optical channel array. In practice this optional elevation may be useful to allow for other components such as integrated circuits to be placed adjacent to the optical channel array without mechanically conflicting with the optical data pipe module. As before the optical channel array is pre aligned and fixed to the rest of the transceiver module with adhesive and or fixturing . Also as before the spatially discrete optical channels in optical channel array are imaged to a spectrum of spatially overlapping angularly discrete substantially collimated optical channels or plane waves .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the right angle relaxed tolerance optical data pipe transceiver module shown in . This embodiment is similar to module except that the lens components are replaced by an infinite conjugate gradient index rod lens imager which similarly has been designed for extended image plane relief as described above.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the right angle relaxed tolerance optical data pipe transceiver module shown in . This embodiment is similar to module except that the lens components are followed by a right angle prism or turning mirror . In this embodiment the lens elements may be optimized to extend the exit pupil at a greater distance to allow for the extra path length required by turning prism or folding mirror .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the right angle relaxed tolerance optical data pipe transceiver module shown in . This embodiment is similar to module except that the lens components are replaced by an infinite conjugate gradient index rod lens imager which similarly has been designed for or used with conjugates supporting an extended exit pupil distance from the rod lens face to allow for the extra path length required by turning prism or folding mirror .

These right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe modules are very useful in many optical interconnect applications as illustrated in the embodiments of the present invention described below. While the angled alignment tolerant optical data pipe modules of systems and are shown with a 90 rotation between input and output optical axes still other embodiments of the present invention allow for differing angles of rotation between input and output optical axes including 45 22.5 or other angles.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to board relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . In this system optical channel array on circuit board is optically interconnected to optical channel array on circuit board using two right angle optical data pipe modules . Circuit boards and also contain other components and integrated circuits . The right angle optical data pipe modules may be attached to their respective circuit boards using the same adhesive or fixture used to fix the channel array to the infinite conjugate imagers. Equivalently the optical channel array may first exist on the circuit board e.g. chip on board packaging and the rest of the optical data pipe module is then aligned and fixed to the circuit board and optical channel array using adhesive or fixture . Further optional means for attaching optical data pipe module to circuit boards at may include fixture adhesive solder carrier or socket or similar means.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to board relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . Here circuit boards and are optically interconnected as in system except that right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe modules are used in place of modules .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to board relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . Here circuit boards and are optically interconnected as in system except that right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe module is used on board in place of module and right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe module is used on board in place of module .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to board relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . Here circuit boards and are optically interconnected as in system except that right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe modules are used in place of modules .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to board relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . Here circuit boards and are optically interconnected as in system except that right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe modules are used in place of modules .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to board or board to backplane relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . Here circuit board and backplane or circuit board are optically interconnected as in system except that right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe modules is used on board and alignment tolerant optical data pipe module is used on the backplane or circuit board . Since one right angle optical data pipe module is used in conjunction with one straight optical data pipe module a right angle orientation between interconnected boards is provided for. This right angle orientation between boards is common for example when multiple boards are interconnected to a backplane. The optical interconnection system is useful for providing dense alignment tolerant optical interconnection between angled circuit boards or between circuit boards and a backplane.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to board or board to backplane relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . Here circuit board and backplane or circuit board are optically interconnected as in system except that alignment tolerant optical data pipe module is used on the backplane or circuit board . Optical Data Pipe module is identical to optical data pipe module except that the infinite conjugate imager is a gradient index rod lens as described earlier. Since one right angle optical data pipe module is used in conjunction with one straight optical data pipe module a right angle orientation between interconnected boards is provided for.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to board or board to backplane relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . Here circuit board and backplane or circuit board are optically interconnected as in system except that right angle alignment tolerant optical data pipe module is used on board and alignment tolerant optical data pipe module is used on the backplane or circuit board . Since one right angle optical data pipe module is used in conjunction with one straight optical data pipe module a right angle orientation between interconnected boards is provided for.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the board to backplane relaxed tolerance optical interconnect system shown in . Here circuit boards and are each optically interconnected to the backplane . In the embodiment shown each of the circuit boards and use a right angle optical data pipe module and the backplane uses mating optical data pipe modules . The circuit boards and are each held onto the backplane board with optional sockets . While only combinations of optical data pipe modules and are illustrated in system of other embodiments using other combinations of optical data pipe modules even during along the backplane and or among boards are within the scope of the present invention.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the multiple board optical interconnection system shown in . In his embodiment multiple boards three shown at are all optically interconnected to each other using relaxed tolerance optical data pipes. Interconnection between boards and and between boards and is accomplished as in system using right angle optical data pipe modules . Optical interconnection between boards and is accomplished using optical data pipe modules . A window or via is provided in board to allow light to propagate between the modules on boards and .

Another embodiment of the present invention is the multiple board optical interconnection system shown in . In this embodiment multiple boards three shown at are all optically interconnected to each other using relaxed tolerance optical data pipes. Interconnection between boards and and between boards and is accomplished as in system using right angle optical data pipe modules . Optical interconnection between boards and is accomplished using optical data pipe modules . A window or via is provided in board to allow light to propagate between the modules on boards and . While only some combinations of optical data pipe modules are illustrated in systems and of and other embodiments using other combinations of optical data pipe modules are within the scope of the present invention.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the multiply interconnected board to board optical interconnection system shown in . In his embodiment circuit boards and are optically interconnected at multiple spatial locations along the boards with generic optical data pipe modules . These generic modules can be for example modules or combinations thereof. Alternatively these pairs of modules can consist of any of the pairs shown in the prior board to board optical interconnect system embodiments.

This embodiment illustrates an additional advantage of optical data pipe interconnection in that the board to board optical interconnect modules can be spatially distributed according to the required data flow between the boards. Similarly the optical data pipe modules can be configured with distributions among unidirectional channels and bidirectional channels and orientation of unidirectional channels to efficiently match the required data flow between boards. For example 1200 optical interconnections between boards at can be established with 12 pairs of optical data pipe modules each with 100 channels. The footprint of each of these modules including drivers may only be on the order of several millimeters square making use of ASICS for example . Thus the entire footprint for all 1200 interconnections could be a tiny fraction of the board areas. Some regions of the boards may require roughly the same number of channels in each direction and so those optical data pipe modules can be configured equal distributions of channels. Other regions of the board may require differing channel direction distributions and can be configured accordingly. Additionally if large numbers of channels are required to be interconnected between boards in an area several bidirectional optical data pipe modules can be replaced with several unidirectional modules in opposing orientations. This would provide an advantage since in some respects unidirectional optical data pipe modules with transmit only modules facing receive only modules can be less complex than bi directional optical data pipe modules which contain both emitters and detectors in each module.

Another advantage of the optical data pipe interconnection shown in is that the interconnections can be made spatially across the board rather than as conventional routing all the signals to an edge of the board and then board to board. Having to route many signals long distances across the board not only wastes board real estate and power but aggravates crosstalk and electromagnetic interference EMI effects.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the buss like interconnection of multiple boards as shown in system of . The multiple boards are embodiments of surfaces capable of carrying electrical signals. In this embodiment single sided boards and internal boards are each sequentially interconnected using generic optical data pipe modules . Means for converting electrical signals into input signals for the means for emitting optical signals enable the conversion of the electrical signals into optical signals. At least one of such means for converting electrical signals is present on each surface at least two are present if the surface rebroadcasts the signals. With one such interconnection scheme supported by this embodiment data for example originating from an end board can be broadcast through all the boards. In this scheme the end board would broadcast data to its nearest neighbor. The nearest neighbor board would 1 receive the data making it locally available for use and 2 simultaneously rebroadcast the data from the module on the other side of the same board to the second nearest neighbor board from the end board. The simultaneous rebroadcast can be accomplished by slaving modules on opposite sides of the boards . This process can be completed across all boards until the opposite end board is reached. Many other data format and bus like architectures can be implemented using similarly daisy chained optical data pipe modules.

Many of the optical data pipe interconnection systems described above have been shown interconnecting circuit boards. However the optical data pipe devices are equivalently useful for interconnecting multichip modules to multichip modules MCM MCM Chip to chip board to backplane motherboard to daughterboard and varied combinations between circuit boards multichip modules chips wafers silicon optical benches backplanes front planes chip stacks buses etc.

A further advantage of the use of any of these optical data pipe technologies is that there is inherent optical isolation between optical data pipe modules and therefore between the boards multichip modules chips backplanes or other components that they interconnect. Another related advantage is that since many long parallel wires are replaced with free space beams there is much less susceptibility to and sources of EMI.

Although the invention has been described with respect to various embodiments it should be realized this invention is also capable of a wide variety of further and other embodiments within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

