---

title: Omni-directional inlet for particulate collection
abstract: A planar omni-directional inlet assembly is provided for installing on a device, such as a dry filter unit, that draws a fluid medium, such as ambient air, to collect particulate matter suspended in the fluid medium onto a filter. The inlet assembly includes an annular platform removably positionable on the device; an annular nozzle to direct the air from the platform; an annular impactor disposed downstream of the nozzle; a housing that disposes the filter downstream of the impactor; and an exit for passing the air from the filter to the device. The impactor presents a flow obstacle for a portion of the particulate matter. The housing directs the air through the filter. The housing includes a base with a first cavity and a lid with a second cavity such that the filter is disposable between the first and second cavities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07651543&OS=07651543&RS=07651543
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07651543
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060626
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and or under Contract Order N00178 05 M 3100 and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to the sampling of moving fluids such as moving airflows and more particularly to a sampling system that extracts samples of a moving fluid passing thereover. The moving fluid as a medium may represent a variety of gases. Matter to be sampled may represent solid particles or liquid droplets or other material physically or chemically distinguishable from the suspension medium.

As an example airflows may be sampled in support of a variety of flow monitoring applications for determining aerosol content or conforming microbiological presence using standard microbiological techniques. The Dry Filter Unit DFU 1000 represents an exemplary air sampling device for collecting for example bio particulates from suspension in ambient air for analysis. The DFU 1000 provides a pressure differential to draw air within thereby enabling particles to be collected. Note that ambient air corresponds in this document to nominal temperature of 20 C. degrees Celsius and pressure of 101 kPa kilopascals .

Particles smaller than a specific size may be categorized under an Environmental Protection Agency standard as specified under Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations CFR . For example particle measurement PM 10 under 40 CFR 50.6 c corresponds to particles having effective diameters no larger than 10 m microns . Similarly PM2.5 under 40 CFR 50.7 a 1 corresponds to particles no larger than 2.5 m. shows an exemplary isometric view of the DFU 1000.

The DFU 1000 houses a pump blower and is configured in a one person portable carrying case for 40 000 hour life continuous duty. The DFU 1000 may use commercially available power at 120 240 V volts from alternating current at 50 60 Hz hertz or else direct current sources adaptable using an optional auxiliary power pack of 24 V. The DFU 1000 has dimensions of 15 in inches high 13 in wide and deep a mass of 42 lb pounds mass . The power requirements are 5.6 A amps at operation and 17 A starting at 120 V.

The DFU 1000 may be conventionally equipped with an open top tandem chamber inlet assembly shown in in isometric view as an exploded diagram. Air flows over a top facing orifice into which particulate matter descends entrained in an air stream at low velocity to an entrance chamber . The air stream passes from the entrance chamber through a forked pair of twin filter chambers and rejoins in an exit chamber to enter a top port of the DFU 1000 which draws in the air.

Each of the twin chambers houses a cylindrical filter holder that secures a polyester mesh filter having a diameter of approximately 1.5 in. Each chamber incorporates a foam seal to avoid pressure drop losses between the inlet and the exit . The filter traps particles larger than those that pass through its mesh. The resulting collection from the filter may include particles of interest for further analysis as well as others larger than desired but collaterally entrapped nonetheless.

The holder may comprise two halves pivotably connected to a molded hinge and securable together when closed by a latch . The holder may be opened by disconnecting the latch to remove and replace the filter . Contents collected on the removed filter may then be analyzed at a separate facility. When the holder is open the filter may be inserted into recesses one of which being equipped with baffles that prevent the filter from being dislodged by the pressure differential produced by the DFU 1000.

Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the air intake described for the DFU 1000 represents an example application and will recognize that other devices for drawing or otherwise moving fluid medium to enable particulate matter collection may be contemplated accordingly.

Practical limitations of the conventional inlet assembly include but not limited to reduced effectiveness in capturing particles within the target range with increasing wind speed from interference with the pressure differential due to aspiration as well as equipment degradation from operational handling precipitation or other environmental conditions such as dust or sea spray. Moreover the conventional inlet cannot inherently filter out particles larger than those of interest e.g. dust . Such larger particles deposit onto the filter which complicate subsequent analysis of the particulate matter. For example biological sampling may produce erroneous results from introduction of organisms e.g. small insects .

Various exemplary embodiments provide a planar omni directional inlet assembly within a horizontal airflow plane a planar omni directional inlet assembly for installing on a device that draws a fluid medium to collect particulate matter suspended in the fluid medium onto a filter. In particular the inlet assembly includes a platform forming an annular inlet to receive the fluid medium positionable on the device an annular nozzle to direct the fluid medium from the platform an annular impactor disposed downstream of the annular nozzle a housing that disposes the filter downstream of the impactor and an exit for passing the fluid medium from the filter to the device the exit being disposed downstream of the housing. The impactor presents a flow obstacle for a portion of the particulate matter. The housing directs the fluid medium through the filter and is removably disposable on the platform.

In a preferred embodiment the inlet assembly operates wherein the fluid medium is ambient air and the device is a dry filter unit DFU . Additional embodiments provide the housing as a filter holder for securing a particulate filter in an inlet assembly for installing on a DFU that draws in ambient air to collect its entrained particulate matter on the filter. In particular the filter holder includes a base a lid and a hinge. The base has a first cavity that communicates with the DFU and is removably disposable on the inlet assembly along a sealable surface of the base. The lid has a second cavity that communicates with the inlet assembly and is disposable against the base opposite the sealable surface in a closed position. The filter is disposable between the first and second cavities. The hinge pivotably connects the base and the lid to enable an edge of the lid opposite the hinge to swing away from the base in an open position.

Service personnel periodically remove the filters in an inlet assembly to analyze the collected contents trapped thereon. Concurrently the filters are replaced to ensure continued proper operation of the associated dry filter unit. Such duties may be performed under minimal illumination and or while clad in cumbersome environmental protection gear. These conditions can inhibit expeditious filter replacement due to consequent sensory and or manipulatory degradation. Various exemplary embodiments replace the conventional inlet assembly with a retrofitted planar omni directional inlet to improve particle collection performance enhance maintenance and minimize alteration to existing systems. Such systems may include any appropriate device suitable for drawing a fluid medium therethrough to enable collection of particles entrained therein. The DFU 1000 represents but a single example of such a device.

Air passing along the inlet unit may flow along the plates and directed along the sloping ramps of the portions through the nozzle opening . The upper and lower portions may be secured to their corresponding upper and lower plates by threaded screws or bolts for example. An annular concentric impact ring may be disposed inward and downstream of the nozzle relative to an oncoming flow of the passing air.

The impact ring may present a flat cross section as shown in . Alternatively the cross section may alternatively present concave or convex surfaces to the oncoming flow. The impact ring presents an obstacle to particles particulate matter suspended in the passing air. Depending on the flow velocity through the nozzle and the characteristic dimensions of the inlet unit large particles are more likely to strike the impact ring than small particles as a consequence of differences in inertia and drag behavior.

Particles that avoid striking the impact ring may impact upon the interior surfaces of one of the plates as the flow bends around the impaction plate and flows between the supports and . The plates represent secondary impaction surfaces that may further restrict particles to those within a targeted size range to be collected on the filter .

The impact ring may be positioned relative to the plates by angularly distributed upper and lower legs . The cylindrical dimensions of the impact ring may be characterized by a ring width Wand a ring diameter D respectively. In particular the drawings feature six complimentary pairs of legs distributed 60 apart although other angular arrangements may be contemplated without departing from the inventive features disclosed herein.

The upper legs provide separation distance between the impact ring and the upper plate . Similarly the lower legs provide separation distance between the impact ring and the lower plate . One of these sets of legs may be secured to their corresponding plates by bolts.

One or more filters may be replacably contained within a removable filter housing . The housing may be removably disposed on the lower plate above the flange . To reduce flow leakage from the lower plate the housing may include an O ring in an annular groove on its bottom surface and around the region containing the filters . The housing may be positioned between an opposing pair of alignment bolts and detachably secured by an opposing pair of clamping block .

The housing disposed over the lower plate over an orifice in the flange represents a hinged rectangular container for a pair of filters . The housing includes a lid and a base . The lid exhibits a pair of receiver openings complimented by corresponding egress openings in the base . One of these sets of openings may feature baffles or containment grids to secure the filter from becoming entrained in the flow as well as provide a tactile orientation reference for an operator that services under conditions of low illumination. In the configuration shown in the baffles are featured in conjunction with the egress openings .

The lid and the base may be connected together by hinges shown as a tandem pair at corners of opposite sides and by an opposing pair of permanent magnets recessed respectively within the lid and the base so as oppose or face each other. The hinges may form a pivot axis substantially parallel to the lower plate . The first magnet is disposed on an inner surface of the lid to present a first magnetized surface. The second magnet is disposed on an inner surface of the base to present a second magnetized surface.

The surfaces of the first and second magnets have opposite polarity so as to attract each other and secure the housing to the closed position when shut. The strength of the magnetic field by the magnets may be gauged to an appropriate level to prevent the housing from accidentally opening but to enable an individual to resist the magnetic attraction by unaided hands. Use of magnets reduces the possibility of operator clothing and or skin getting caught or torn while handling the holder and or changing filters. Developing a small rip in protective gear may cause hazardous exposure and manipulating small latches and hooks while wearing cumbersome protective gear can be cumbersome.

As will be apparent to skilled artisans alternate configurations may be contemplated using two or more opposing pairs of magnets and or positions along pivoting faces of the lid and the base rather than along the sides without departing from the spirit of the invention. Additionally alternate configurations may be contemplated that employ alternate mechanisms to align and secure the lid and the base to each other such as latches hooks threaded bolts and or combinations thereof.

The housing may be removable from the lower plate rather than be permanently fastened. Instead the alignment bolts enable an operator to position the housing therebetween to cover the orifice . Each clamping block releasably secures the housing by pivoting clamps . The clamp lifts away from its corresponding block when releasing the housing and lowers onto the lid when securing the housing to the lower plate . The clamp may pivot along a hinge substantially parallel to the lower plate so that a lever engages the housing when lowered and releases the housing when lifted. The bolts and the block may be discernable by tactile sensation. Skilled artisans will recognize that alternate configurations of alignment indicators are possible without departing from the scope of the invention.

The plates nozzle and the housing as fabricated by Applicants are preferably composed substantially of anodized Al 6061 aluminum alloy suitable for harsh weather conditions convenient portability and stringent reliability of service requirements. Further Applicants provide simplicity in the above described embodiments by eliminating items vulnerable to corrosion such as screws and moving parts and by configuring all surfaces to be readily reachable for cleaning. However skilled artisans will recognize that the design principles disclosed herein are also applicable to alternate materials for different circumstances for applications for either milder conditions or shorter longevity requirements such as more economically produced designs that use plastic sheet steel or other suitable material produced by molding or casting.

Additionally the exemplary dimensions described may most preferably include plate diameter D 16 in inches ring diameter D 10 in nozzle width W 0.313 in ring width W 1.000 in plate thickness W 0.090 in. However skilled artisans will recognize that the design principles disclosed herein are also applicable to alternate geometries and dimensional constraints.

An air flow approaches the nozzle and passes through the throat towards the impaction plate along streamlines . Under subsonic adiabatic conditions the air flow accelerates as the path width decreases. Aerosol particles entrained in the air flow possess drag characteristics that may differ from the ambient air.

A first particle with abundant inertia may impact the impaction plate at the end of a first trajectory . A second particle with much less inertia such as one smaller than the first particle may evade the impaction plate along a second trajectory . Because bio agent particles to be analyzed are typically smaller than dust and sand commonly suspended in ambient air the impaction plate may bar the dust and sand so that filters within a unit trap the bio agents as a larger fraction of the particulate matter collected.

The following example provides quantified values to demonstrate the impaction effects. Stokes number St represents a non dimensional parameter to characterize aerodynamic properties e.g. inertia of the particles with values approximately exceeding unity serving to predict particle impaction. Stokes number may be expressed from Marple as St CdU 9 W where is the particle density Cis the Cunningham slip correction factor dis the effective particle diameter U is the medium flow velocity is the medium dynamic viscosity and W is the nozzle gap width. Much of the technical literature labels viscosity by the symbol but to reduce confusion from its incorporation for micro units is used herein.

The slip correction factor Cis an empirically derived parameter based on a dimensionless Knudsen number Kn that relates the gas molecular mean free path to the particle diameter by Kn 2 d. For large particles in continuum flow e.g. ambient air 0.0665 m Kn

Slip correction may be calculated based on particle elasticity characteristics and the medium physical properties. For solid particles the slip correction factor may be approximated as C 1 1.142 Kn. Reynolds number Re represents a dimensionless ratio between inertial and kinetic or frictional forces as expressed by nozzle jet Re UW where is the medium density. Boundary constrained flow regimes may be classified as laminar for Reynolds number below the transition value of 4000 or above for nozzle convergence.

For crystalline silica particulates from ground quartz as an example the following quantities may be used particle density 2660 kg m kilograms per cubic meter and d 2.8 m. The corresponding slip correction factor may be approximated as C 1.054. Based on the above described geometry of the nozzle the throat width W 0.00795 m meter . For the medium as ambient air 1.205 kg m 18.203 10Pa s pascal second . Velocity through the nozzle may be estimated at 2 m s meters per second . From these values St 0.033 Re 1050 and Kn 0.05. These values predict that these fine quartz crystals would easily pass through the inlet St

The distribution of particles according to size for high bypass i.e. small particle diameter selection may be tailored by adjusting the flow characteristics of the air into the inlet unit . Parameters to adjust may include flow rate and inlet geometry. Specifically particles suspended in the air that pass through the nozzle may be divided into three groups a large particles that are substantially all collected on the impact ring b small particles that are substantially detoured by the impact ring towards the housing and c intermediate particles of which a portion impinge and another portion deflect around the impact ring . Minimization of the intermediate group may define the quality of a cut that segregates the high bypass particles intended for filter collection and subsequent analysis.

The cut may be refined by staging a series of concentric impact rings that may be augmented by associated intermediate annular nozzles disposed between the rings. This improves the cut by reducing the intermediate group of particles but may yield loss of desired particles due to possible unintended impaction on additional surface area. Alternatively the series may cascade slightly different rings and nozzles each with a slightly smaller cut as shown in Marple. By concatenating the interception of the particles the fraction of intermediate particles may be reduced and the distribution of particle sizes that reach the filter housing disposed in the center of the ring series may be tightened. In a similar fashion to additionally exclude particles below a specified size the housing may be disposed at a position between selected concentric rings for high and low bypassing of particles that reach the filter by impact as the remaining particles continue to the unit exit at the flange .

The exemplary embodiments of the inlet unit described herein provide several advantages to analysts assigned to evaluate the particles received from the filter thereby improving efficiency of the analysis by increasing the quantity of desired particle sizes within a given air flow. Artisans of ordinary skill should note that the inlet unit as described is designed to have a higher collection efficiency to thereby grab more particles out of the air than the conventional inlet rather than act as a concentrator. 

Some of these advantages include a a planar omni directional inlet configuration using parallel plates with an omni directional axisymmetric nozzle that allows wind blown air to flow into the inlet unit from any horizontal direction as well as avoid precipitation b an impact ring to selectively restrict particles by size for entry into the filter to thereby reduce analysis error from large particle debris c an O ring seal within a groove between the housing and the lower plate to reduce pressure drop degradation within the inlet unit . In particular the nozzle impactor combination serve to route aerosol particles within a target size range more effectively to the filters in addition to having greater resistance to intrusion of large objects such as insects. Also the improved seal improves flow stability and inhibits particles of interest from leaking through an alternate exit.

The exemplary embodiments of the inlet unit described herein provide several advantages to field operators assigned to replace filters over conventional arrangements. These advantages are intended to facilitate and simplify manipulation while the operators wear cumbersome gear lack a sophisticated suite of tools and perform duties under low illumination. Some of these advantages include a absence of toggles to open b magnetic fasteners to close the housing tactile indicators to orient and align the housing for disposing onto the lower plate c schedule reduction in filter replacement frequency due to reduced non target particulate matter from being collected on the filter i.e. improved selectivity of particles as well as reduced filter degradation from precipitation d no loose or moving parts and e a replaceable filter housing that can be loaded and unloaded in a laboratory environment separate from the inlet unit .

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

