---

title: Automated resource planning tool and user interface
abstract: An automated tool for scheduling tasks to be performed based on resources available in a constrained environment. The tool gives crew members, employees, or others responsible for the performance of tasks in the constrained environment the power to adjust task schedules to take projected conditions into account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103533&OS=08103533&RS=08103533
owner: United Space Alliance, LLC
number: 08103533
owner_city: Cape Canaveral
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060824
---
This application claims the priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 711 414 filed Aug. 26 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application includes material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates to the field of resource planning and more particularly provides an automated tool through which tasks can be assigned to individuals.

Planning and scheduling of mission critical operations within constrained environments such as manned and unmanned space vehicles military and or scientific research bases ships oil rigs and factory floors has typically been performed solely by a small group of dedicated remote persons who are not performing the operation. Space flight for example has historically been managed from the ground. In the United States the Mission Control team at NASA s Johnson Space Center in Houston Tex. JSC has been in charge of creating and dictating the daily plans and activities for the crew. Mission Control has this responsibility because of their access to all of the pertinent information about the space flight. For example Mission Control has insight into the vehicle s trajectory the vehicle s attitude what tasks need to be accomplished during that flight what items in the vehicle are in need of repair that might hamper accomplishing a task what items are in the vehicle s inventory any medical considerations and the like. As a result the crew of a given space flight operate in a highly remote controlled manner with Mission Control knowing what needs to be done and telling the crew what to do and the order in which it is to be done to ensure safe vehicle operation.

The Mission Control team at JSC that is responsible for the International Space Station ISS consists of fifty people who must orchestrate the tasks for the ISS. Currently approval of any proposed changes to the task schedule requires the approval of international ISS partners in addition to NASA s approval. This process can take several weeks and multiple mission management and international partner meetings. This is a very expensive and very cumbersome process. In addition the process places a heavy burden on the flight controller to recall and effectively communicate his or her knowledge of the ISS s current status.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to an automated resource planning tool that substantially obviates one or more of the problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

In one embodiment a means for automating the scheduling and rescheduling of tasks aboard a spacecraft is provided in a manner which accounts for available resources such as available communications bandwidth and available power. This embodiment may therefore be utilized to ease the burden of schedule changes so that such changes can be accomplished in a more automated fashion without requiring immediate interaction with space flight controllers thereby removing some of the responsibility and pressure from the flight controller on the ground through automation. This embodiment may be utilized to give the crew of a manned space flight or those responsible for operations aboard an unmanned space flight more control over the order in which tasks are accomplished.

In another embodiment an activity scheduling tool accessible to a person responsible for the performance of an activity within a constrained environment includes a task definition user interface adapted to receive from the person an indication that a task is to be scheduled or rescheduled. The task definition user interface is further adapted to receive from the person an indication of at least one level of resources required for the task. Code is provided for utilizing such indication to automatically assign a scheduled time to the task.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of certain embodiments of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to an embodiment of the present invention which is illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

An embodiment of the system allows a space flight crew to schedule tasks themselves apart from Mission Control. The dependencies conditions and resources that are currently seen on the ground at Mission Control are preferably embedded into the system so that Mission Control need only send the crew a list of tasks to be performed. The crew can then schedule the tasks themselves.

The tasks performed aboard space craft may have definitions that indicate that a given activity must be performed for example twenty minutes after another activity and will require 10 watts of power or that the activity has to be turned on at one time and turned off at another. The crew is able to use the intelligent software of the system to make schedule entries themselves and the software includes code for analyzing these resource requirements and responding for example with an indication that the scheduled or rescheduled task can be performed at the appointed time within the bounds of dependencies conditions and resources associated with the task. If the proposed scheduled activity cannot be performed within those bounds then the tool can propose an alternative schedule where the task is feasible and safe according to all the conditions and all of the definitions. If no proposed scheduled time is entered or selected when the activity is entered into the system or when it is modified the system can select a time at which the task is feasible and safe according to all the conditions and all of the definitions.

In one embodiment the tool removes Mission Control from some or all aspects of task planning and scheduling activities and puts these activities in the hands of the crew in the vehicle. This gives the crew more autonomy which can be advantageous for example during deep space flight missions where communication back to the earth inhibits two way interaction during communications blackout periods such as those encountered when orbiting the moon or another celestial body or during periods in which communications are hampered due to weather or other factors.

As the vehicle orbits the Earth or other celestial body the vehicle will likely face changing thermal considerations and limitations. For example at some points along its trajectory the vehicle will become excessively hot because when exposed to the sun the temperature can easily reach 250 Fahrenheit above zero. Similarly the vehicle can be exposed to extreme cold when in the shadow of a celestial body ambient temperatures can plummet to 250 Fahrenheit below zero. By adjusting the vehicle s attitude the overall temperature fluctuations can be reduced and Mission Control can avoid exposing a single portion of the vehicle to a temperature extreme for a significant period of time.

While attitude adjustments can reduce temperature related problems attitude adjustments can also restrict the vehicle s operations. A typical spacecraft has solar arrays and one or more antennae on the exterior of the vehicle. As the vehicle s attitude and or trajectory changes the solar arrays may no longer be aligned to receive maximum exposure to the sun. Similarly the antennae may no longer be oriented to achieve maximum bandwidth. The system in one embodiment takes the current and predicted attitude and trajectory information into account when scheduling and rescheduling activities and predicts the power and bandwidth availability for the remainder of the mission.

The tool can also facilitate more efficient use of the vehicle s resources by utilizing computer code having logic for automatically rescheduling tasks based on a currently predicted trajectory and attitude. Thus as the current projections of trajectory and attitude change throughout a mission future tasks which are dependent upon trajectory and attitude may be automatically rescheduled by the system with or without confirmation of such rescheduling by a human operator.

Although certain examples provided herein focus primarily on crews involved in space flight it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that the tool can be readily adapted for use in alternative environments including without limitation military and or scientific research bases cruise ships oil rigs factory floors unmanned space vehicles or other constrained environments in which it is advantageous to give those responsible for performing tasks the ability to schedule performance of these tasks and access to relevant information.

With continued reference to a Resource Data Interface is provided for interfacing the Planning Tool with a Visualization Tool via the Visualization Tool s API. The Visualization Tool uses trajectory data from a Trajectory Data File to generate attitude and position displays and passes such displays along with resource data such as available power and communications over time to the Resource Data Interface. Suitable Visualization Tools include e.g. Freeflyer distributed by a.i. solutions Inc. of Lanham Md. Satellite Tool Kit distributed by Analytical Graphics Inc. of Exton Pa. or another such tool. The Resource Data Interface may be provided as a plug in to the Visualization tool and may provide additional functionality and logic to the Visualization Tool.

The Trajectory Data File shown in may be pre mission predicted trajectory data or may be created or updated by a real time trajectory tool which calculates current and projected trajectories based on information about the vehicle. The trajectory tool can monitor information from the vehicle such as attitude maneuvers altitude changes e.g. away from a celestial body closer to the celestial body etc. or actual vehicle position in space to update the vehicle s trajectory. As described herein by monitoring these trajectory changes the overall system in general and the scheduling tool that is the subject of the present patent application may be configured to dynamically monitor and adjust crew schedules to use the vehicle s resources more efficiently.

As shown in the planning tool may be linked to an integrated data management system. In one embodiment the planning tool functions as part of an overall system through which a space flight can be monitored and controlled from early conception and design phases through execution. Such a system preferably includes an Integrated Data Management System for storing and accessing information about the space flight including photographs or engineering drawings of the various vehicle components as they are assembled procedures problem reports and processing data. Images in such a system can be made accessible for example through a graphical interface in which the images are organized in an hierarchical fashion based on the position of the photographed component on the vehicle. In such a tool as the user drills down to find a particular component additional information about the illustrated component s such as without limitation the manufacturer lot number serial number assembly date assembly person procedures problem reports processing data and other information can be presented or made available to the user. Such a tool can be advantageous when diagnosing problems performing routine maintenance and the like. An integrated data management system for providing such a tool is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 466 508 filed Aug. 23 2006 entitled Image and Information Management System the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A flight crew typically consists of a commander CDR pilot PLT and three mission specialists MS MS and MS respectively . Task List allows CDR PLT MS MS and MS to easily view their tasks for the day. In CDR and MS have a critical communication represented by Com Crit and Com Crit scheduled to begin two hours after their post sleep activities post sleep and post sleep respectively .

The interface of can also provide the information necessary to allow the flight crew to readily evaluate potential task schedules. By way of example includes available power graph available communications graphs and bandwidth graph . Available communications graphs can include but are not limited to communications available through the Tracking and Data Relay Satellite System TDRSS and through one or more ground stations. This information provides the crew with ready access to an estimation of whether a given task will consume too many of the station s resources to be scheduled concurrently with another task. For example power graph shows that three and one half hours into the crew s day represented as UTC in Timeline CDR and MS will be initiating communications with the ground. During this time the communications will consume approximately seventy five percent 75 of the vehicle s power as illustrated by dip in power graph . By viewing the user interface illustrated in PLT MS and or MS can easily determine that they should not undertake a task or tasks that collectively require more than twenty five percent 25 of the vehicle s power during that time. In addition as further described below if one or more crew members were to attempt to schedule such a task the tool of the invention can provide feedback advising that such a task is not advisable at that time.

Another aspect of the system in the present embodiment is that it can monitor the vehicle s trajectory in real time or near real time and advise the crew and or Mission Control when a scheduled task is no longer feasible due to changes in the vehicle s trajectory. The tool can also automatically propose a new schedule based on the new trajectory.

In one embodiment default tasks are entered by the Mission Control team prior to the start of the mission. Such default tasks may include but are not limited to crew sleep periods interviews with television or other media crew exercise periods crew meal periods maintenance activities and the like. The timing associated with some default tasks may be critical while the timing associated with other tasks may be more flexible. The level of criticality can be indicated by the user at the time the task is scheduled. The system can be designed such that critical tasks e.g. Communication Critical Com Crit tasks and of are unmovable or are movable only within a relatively narrow set of conditions. A Weekly button under Task List can be used by a crew member to display a list of those tasks that should be performed during the current week but which may not be as time sensitive as other tasks. A sample weekly task list is shown in .

As illustrates the crew member using the tool is presented with a list of all tasks that are to be performed in a given week. The weekly task list can include a calendar tool through which tasks scheduled for subsequent weeks can be viewed. By way of example without intending to limit the present invention the MiG Calendar tool distributed by MiG InfoCom of Uppsala Sweden may provide the features associated with such a calendar tool.

By clicking in the area around Today a crew member can cause calendar to jump back to the current week s calendar. If the crew member wishes the crew member can filter the displayed tasks based on the crew member to whom the tasks are currently assigned by clicking one or more of roles . By clicking the All button in roles the crew member can restore the view to show all available tasks. The weekly task list can be broken down by day with tasks that have already been assigned or accomplished appearing as grayed out such as Task item .

It is common for some tasks to take less time than allocated in the task definition. In such an event a crew member may wish to start another as yet unscheduled task. The user interface illustrated in allows the crew member to select a pending task and to reassign the task to himself or another crew member. The system may be designed to require that the crew member making such change has the appropriate permissions and the crew member to whom the task is assigned is authorized to perform the task.

Referring again to while many tasks to be performed on a space flight will be time sensitive some tasks will be very basic and will not be time sensitive at all. Such tasks can be accessed by clicking General . By clicking Master a crew member can cause the user interface to display Master Task List as illustrated in . Master Task List can include a list of all tasks that must be accomplished during a space flight. List can be filtered by the crew member to whom a task is assigned using roles .

In one embodiment the task scheduling algorithm schedules tasks based on priority and resource usage. In this embodiment the highest priority tasks for that day are assigned first thereby assuring that as many of these tasks will be accomplished as possible. If a plurality of high priority tasks are to be scheduled the algorithm implemented in this embodiment starts with those that require the least power thereby potentially allowing multiple tasks to be performed simultaneously. If a plurality of high priority low power requirement tasks are to be scheduled the algorithm begins with the task which the fewest number of crew members are authorized to perform. In an alternative embodiment fuzzy logic or other artificial intelligence algorithms may be utilized to facilitate scheduling. illustrates the results of an automatic scheduling of the tasks in daily task list of .

The tool of the invention in one embodiment can also allow a crew member who is performing a given task to amend and annotate the task while the task is in progress. By way of example without intending to limit the present invention if a task is taking longer than scheduled the crew member can change the duration of that task by simply clicking it and extending the end time. If the ending time extends into a future task the tool can automatically advise the crew member if the future task is a higher priority task and whether either the future or current task can be rescheduled or reassigned to another crew member. The crew member can also enter status information about a task currently being performed. By right clicking on a task the crew member can drag a slider indicative of the percentage of the task that is complete enter a corresponding numeric value in a text box or otherwise indicate the current status. A text box or other field is also preferably available into which the crew member can enter notes such as lunch break stopped task because instructions were confusing . . . please clarify or the like. At any time Mission Control can access the status information and assist the crew where necessary.

In addition to providing a scheduling interface that can be used throughout a mission the tool also provides a uniform interface through which the crew can access mission related information that is tailored to the mission s current status. For the purposes of this disclosure such information is generally considered to be part of vehicle situation awareness. In the embodiment illustrated in the figures the crew can access Earth orbit related information via EOO destination transit related information via O2DV destination orbit related information via LOO and surface related information via surface .

Generally at each stage of the mission the crew has access to two types of vehicle situation awareness information the vehicle s current position accessed through position button and the vehicle s attitude accessed through attitude button . is a screen capture illustrating a sample user interface for providing an orbiter s attitude with respect to the moon. LOO Attitude screen provides a three dimensional view of the vehicle and the moon with the vehicle accurately positioned over the appropriate portion of the moon s surface. Such a three dimensional view may be created using a visualization tool as discussed above with reference to . The vehicle position can be obtained by the tool from the vehicle itself and or from Mission Control on a real time or periodic basis. The user can click and drag in screen to rotate the view. Screen also indicates the vehicle s current direction of travel.

As described above the tool provides a uniform interface from which a flight crew can access information about the mission. In addition to the task position attitude and status information discussed above the tool can also provide access to instructions tutorials or other metadata about a task inventory information and messaging. The preceding feature list is intended to be exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the invention to only these features. is a screen capture illustrating a sample user interface for providing procedural metadata about a task. is a screen capture illustrating a sample user interface for providing inventory information to the flight crew. is a screen capture illustrating a sample user interface for providing messaging information . Such messaging information may include but is not limited to messages generated by systems onboard the vehicle messages from one crew member to another messages to and from Mission Control and reminders entered by a crew member for his or her own benefit. As illustrated in the tool can also allow a crew member to view a calendar with all scheduled events also referred to as the future view . This future view can include a master calendar which contains a task schedule as proposed pre flight.

While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

