---

title: In-flight transceiver and locator system
abstract: Military systems in particular face two specific problems: field casualties typically increase as unit visibility decreases and it is often difficult for ground stations and/or headquarters to maintain control and visibility of geographically dispersed assets. The system provides satellite communications such as two-way messaging, Voice over Packet, and global positioning information and reporting for fixed and rotary wing aircrafts where traditional methods of communications are not otherwise practical. The system provides communications between remote users and other remote users as well as between remote users and control stations. In some embodiments there is an in-flight transceiver system that includes an antenna, an aviation box, and a switch. The aviation box conforms to a one-half, ½ short Air Transport Rack (ATR) form factor and includes a transceiver, an interface card, and a global positioning system (GPS) unit. The switch is located between the aviation box and the antenna for controlling a data signal between the antenna and the transceiver of the aviation box.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07822415&OS=07822415&RS=07822415
owner: Comtech Mobile Datacom Corporation
number: 07822415
owner_city: Germantown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061102
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of and incorporates herein by reference in its entirety provisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 60 733 268 filed Nov. 2 2005.

The present invention relates generally to transceiver systems and specifically to in flight transceiver and locator systems.

Current attempts at in flight transceiver and locator systems are bulky and do not provide real time data updates. Specifically systems are not typically small enough to fit inside an aircraft s cockpit and the data exchanged between transceiver satellite ground units and or headquarters experience delays of ten seconds or more. In a battlefield scenario even mere seconds are crucial. Additionally due to space constraints the housing that encases components of an in flight transceiver and locator system typically provides limited connectivity to users or engineers and mechanics attempting to service the system.

Problems encountered with previous technology are overcome by the present technology which can quickly send and receive messages and information between an in flight transceiver system and a ground unit. Omni directional data communications are achieved at significant data rates under widely varying conditions including substantially all naturally occurring weather and environmental conditions. Further the information transmitted at these rapid transmission rates can be secured e.g. by using encryption techniques such as Triple Data Encryption Standard DES algorithms Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithms Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA algorithms any combination of these and or spread spectrum techniques.

The technology relates to an in flight transceiver system for communicating secured information at a high data rate between an in flight unit and a ground unit. The in flight transceiver system includes an antenna and an aviation box which typically includes a transceiver an interface card and a global positioning system GPS unit. The GPS unit optionally including a selective availability anti spoofing module SAASM unit. Preferably the in flight transceiver system also includes a switch between the aviation box and the antenna for controlling signal traffic between the antenna and the transceiver. This switch is useful to protect the circuitry of the transceiver by isolating signals being transmitted from signals being received. In some embodiments the in flight transceiver system also includes a signal booster such as a Low Noise Amplifier LNA between the aviation box and the antenna as a subcomponent of the switch. In some embodiments the signal booster or LNA will be located close to the antenna to ensure that the original signal without additional noise is amplified. In some embodiments the antenna is a dual pole antenna is omni directional and or is fin shaped residing on the exterior of the aircraft. Beneficially communications between ground stations and aircraft incorporating the in flight transceiver system are almost never lost due to the omni directional nature of the antenna.

The in flight transceiver system can be used on an aircraft for communicating with stationary land based ground unit s . Using software and communications techniques described below data transmission rates of about 800 bits second from the in flight transceiver system to the ground unit can be achieved and transmission rates of about 2800 bits second can be achieved from the ground unit s to the in flight transceiver system.

Data transmitted by the in flight transceiver system can be bidirectional between the in flight unit and the ground unit e.g. each unit can send and receive information. In some implementations data is transmitted or received in half duplex e.g. data is either transmitted or received but both do not occur at the same time. Other implementations operate in full duplex and can transmit and or receive simultaneously. Data transmissions to and from the in flight unit may come from any direction because of the omni directional capabilities of the antenna and the transmissions between ground units and in flight transceiver systems can be secured by using encryption such as Triple Data Encryption Standard DES algorithms Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithms Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA algorithms any combination of these such as a Triple Data Encryption Standard DES algorithm and an Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithm or a DES algorithm and a Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA algorithm or an AES algorithm and an RSA algorithm and or spread spectrum techniques.

The in flight transceiver system is manufactured to be operable in a number of aviation environmental factors such as vibration salt fog temperatures between minus twenty six 26 degrees Centigrade and plus seventy one 71 degrees Centigrade aircraft voltage transients and external electromagnetic forces. In some embodiments the aviation box mounts within a rack sized with a one half short Air Transport Rack ATR form factor e.g. a short ATR form factor is approximately twelve 12 inches deep and the aviation box is one half of the short ATR i.e. approximately six 6 inches deep. The packaging also complies with the many other aviation related certifications. The in flight transceiver system preferably operates over L Band satellite communication channels such as MSAT INMARSAT Thuraya Artemis ACeS and or OPTUS.

In some embodiment the in flight transceiver system comprises an interface for data connections. In some versions there is an interface for a servicing data connector and an in flight data connector. The in flight data connecter is connected typically via a cable to the aircraft. Connecting a laptop computer to the servicing data connector via a cable automatically disables the in flight data connector. Conversely disconnecting the servicing data connector automatically enables the in flight data connector. Typical prior art systems limit the number of data connections available to reduce the size of the necessary form factor. Often one data connection is provided and a servicing technician will unplug the data connection running to the aircraft before the service technician is able to connect his servicing laptop. The in flight transceiver system however provides additional interfaces for a service technician to connect to the in flight transceiver system to diagnose device or communications problems. The aviation s platform s data connection is disabled while a technician is connected but in the event the technician is rushed for example is on the battlefield he does not have to remember to reconnect the aircraft s data connection as in prior art systems rather once the service technician unplugs his service laptop the aircraft s data connection is enabled.

There is also a method for communicating between an in flight transceiver system and a ground unit. The method includes providing at least one of the embodiments of the in flight transceiver system described above and sending a communications packet over a communications channel that is not previously allocated or predetermined. In some embodiments the transceiver software determines the receive channel by searching a prioritized list of channels that have been configured as part of a provisioning process. In embodiments that utilize this method of channel selection there is a transmit frequency associated with the configured receive channel. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the transceiver software determines the receive channel by searching the entire configured frequency space in frequency steps. These frequency steps are typically configurable. If using this method to select the channel the transceiver listens on the receive channel for instructions e.g. configuration messages on how to set the correct transmit frequency. This feature provides for great versatility in the adaptability of the system. Once a channel is identified a first packet is transmitted from the ground unit to the in flight transceiver system. In some embodiments the reverse occurs once a channel is identified a first packet is transmitted from the in flight transceiver system to the ground unit. The size of the packet transmitted is typically small allowing for maximal transmission over minimal bandwidth. Next a second packet is transmitted either before an acknowledgement is returned for the first packet or without the sending party requesting successful receipt of the first communications packet. While in some versions the second packet is sent over the same channel as the first packet in some versions the second packet is sent over a channel that is not the same channel used by the first packet. Transmitting the packets over different channels results in increased system robustness because even if a packet on one channel is intercepted the second packet avoids detection thus preventing re construction of the sent message. As the number of packets transmitted increases the robustness of the system increases because packets are spread over several channels. By repeating these steps exceptionally high rates of data transmission can be achieved. Test results have shown that the receipt rate of the transmitted packets by intended recipients is high with a success rate on the order of 90 or more. In contrast other systems that employ an acknowledgement request suffer unnecessary and burdensome loads on communications bandwidth that causes system inefficiencies. Beneficially in embodiments of the present invention acknowledgement requests and or receipts are omitted.

In another embodiment the transceiver is Blue Force Tracking capable. Blue Force Tracking is a communications system linking satellites sensors vehicles and weapons into a single seamless digital network a system. In some of these embodiments voice messages are sent on a different channel than other data messages. The voice messages are sent in packet form for example as Voice over Packet VoP transmissions. In some embodiments the data messages are also sent in packet form over a Blue Force Tracking capable transceiver.

In some embodiments the transmission packets are secured by using encryption and or spread spectrum techniques regardless if the packets are sent from the in flight transceiver system to the ground unit or from the ground unit to the in flight transceiver system or both . Some encryption techniques utilized are Triple Data Encryption Standard DES algorithms Advanced Encryption Standard AES algorithms Rivest Shamir Adleman RSA algorithms or combinations of these. Data rates from the in flight unit to the ground unit are typically at or above about 800 bits per second data rates from the ground unit to the in flight unit are typically at or above about 2800 bits per second.

Transmission of the at least some of the communications transmission packets can be via code divided multiple access CDMA or other known or proprietary protocols. Preferably User Data Program UDP or Internet Protocol IP protocols are not used or loaded on the system. Beneficially by eliminating excess protocols such as UDP and IP higher system data transmission rates are achieved since packet data does not include unnecessary routing information or overhead. Transmitted data can include information relating to global positioning GPS two way text messages voice communications status of digital input output signals maps photos video task orders targeting data computer programs software cryptographic keys provisioning files and or others. In some embodiments communications are sent over L band satellite communications channels such as MSAT INMARSAT Thuraya Artemis ACeS and or OPTUS. More specifically transmissions from the in flight transceiver system are sent to a satellite from which they are relayed to the ground unit. Similarly ground unit transmissions can be sent to an in flight unit with an in flight transceiver system by being relayed through a satellite.

In some implementations the in flight transceiver system provides beyond line of sight BLOS communications. Additionally the in flight transceiver system provides access to the Army Battle Command System ABCS which employs fixed and or semi fixed installations and mobile networks and Global Command and Control System Army GCCS A that are otherwise unavailable to the aircraft. Additionally in some embodiments the in flight transceiver system enables aircraft in an underserved theater of operations to have a rudimentary air traffic control capability.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating the principles of the invention by way of example only.

The system provides satellite communications such as two way messaging and position reporting for fixed and rotary wing aircrafts where traditional methods of communications are not otherwise practical. The system keeps remote users connected to other remote users and to control stations and provides location visibility. This functionality solves two specific problems for military applications it reduces the number of casualties by having a means of receiving sending critical information quickly and securely and maintains better control and visibility of geographically dispersed vehicles soldiers and other assets.

The in flight transceiver system is developed specifically to meet BlueForce Tracking Aviation s requirements. Specifically the system operates under temperature extremes and Electromagnetic Interference protection is provided. As such the system meets the Aviation Applied Technology Directorate s AATD test for airworthiness MIL STD 810 environmental engineering considerations and laboratory tests e.g. MIL STD 810F Sections of 6.1 such as Temp Altitude High Temperature Operation Low Temperature Operation High Temperature Storage Low Temperature Storage Fungus Salt Fog Blowing Dust Blowing Sand Solar Radiation Rain Blowing Rain Resonance Survey Random Vibration Ground Vehicle Sine on Random Vibration Gunfire Vibration Functional Shock Crash Hazard Shock Bench Handling Shock Humidity Temperature Shock Explosive Atmosphere Non Operational Low Pressure Altitude Transit Drop Shock Icing Freezing Rain and or others and MIL STD 461 electromagnetic interference characteristics requirements for equipment e.g. CE101 conducted emissions Power Leads CS101 Conducted Susceptibility Power Leads RE101 Antenna Terminal RS101 Susceptibility CE102 RE102 RS103 RS103 Out of Band Rejection RS103 Burnout CE106 CS114 CS115 CS116 Test Report EMC . Additionally the system meets the requirements of FCC Part 15 FCC Part 25 ETSI EN 301 681 ETSI EN 301 426 and ETSI EN 301 489.

The aircraft is able to communicate securely with ground units base stations and other aircraft via the in flight transceiver system . The aircraft is signally connected to a data interface located on the exterior of the aviation box . The data from the aircraft is sent via a port via the interface card if present to the transceiver and or GPS SAASM unit . The data is then communicated from the aviation box through the LNA switch to the antenna located on the exterior of the aircraft. From the antenna data is communicated to a communications and or GPS satellite. When receiving information the reverse occurs data is received at the antenna passes through the LNA where the signal is amplified the signal is received by the transceiver is communicated to the interface card and or GPS SAASM unit and transmitted via a port on the exterior of the aviation box to the aircraft. Examples of ports on the exterior of the aviation box are described with respect to . The in flight transceiver system sends communication over a standard L Band satellite communication channel to communicate with a satellite as described above. Additionally the in flight transceiver system is operable under various aviation environmental conditions such as vibration salt fog varying temperatures e.g. between minus twenty six 26 degrees Centigrade and plus seventy one 71 degrees Centigrade aircraft voltage transients altitude air pressure blowing dust and sand solar radiation fungus rain blowing rain freezing rain transit drop explosive atmosphere radiated external electromagnetic forces and conducted emissions.

In a preferred implementation the antenna is a fin shaped antenna that preferably resides on the exterior of the aircraft. In some implementations the antenna is a dual pole antenna and includes a right hand circularly polarized RHCP antenna and a left hand circularly polarized LHCP antenna . This allows the antenna to tune communications sent using either signal polarization. In some implementations one antenna may be adjusted to act as a RHCP antenna or a LHCP antenna. If there is only one antenna a switch may be used to determine the direction of the polarization. In one embodiment the LNA switch may be used to determine the polarization of the antenna. In addition the antenna has omni directional capabilities so that the antenna can receive communications originating from any direction and not just communications specifically aimed at the antenna .

In some implementations the LNA switch is connected to the antenna s and boosts the signal received by the antenna s when forwarding the antenna s signal to the aviation box . Boosting the signal allows the antenna s to have a wire between the antenna s and the aviation box that is longer in length than is achievable for a connection without a signal boosting LNA . Optionally the LNA switch controls signal traffic between the antenna and the aviation box . For example the LNA switch advantageously instructs the receiver in the transceiver to cease receiving while the transmitter in the transceiver is transmitting. In addition to being connected to the antenna the LNA switch is also connected to the aviation box via transmit and receive connections. In some implementations the connections are a single cable e.g. a serial connection a copper wire or the like. In these implementations typically a control signal instructs the LNA if a transmit or receive command is being sent from the transceiver to the LNA switch . In a preferred implementation however the transmit and receive connections between the LNA switch and the aviation box are separate connections. Regardless of single or dual connections a control signal may also be provided to the LNA switch by the aviation box if RHCP or LHCP is to be used when sending or receiving a transmission. Additionally the aviation box includes a power and control line connected to the LNA switch . Typically electrical power provided by aircrafts undergoes dips and surges. Beneficially power to the LNA box transceiver and or the GPS SAASM unit can be conditioned by the interface card within the aviation box to prevent power surges or dips from damaging the circuitry of the respective components.

The interface card in the aviation box provides several connections for the in flight transceiver system . In some versions the interface card provides connections between the transceiver ports on the exterior of the aviation box and the GPS SAASM using wiring harnesses with latching connectors. Additionally the interface card provides serial interface converters to convert from serial connections found on the exterior of the aviation box to bus connections with the transceiver and and GPS SAASM . In some implementations the interface card receives power via a connection on the exterior of the aviation box from the aircraft and provides power supply conditioning of approximately an input range of about 10 to about 32 VDC for the other components of the in flight transceiver system such as the transceiver and LNA switch . In some embodiments power conditioning for the transceiver involves a step down conversion to 12 VDC. The power supplied to the LNA switch is a step down conversion to about 8 VDC.

In one implementation the aviation box has an RS 422 interface and a RS 232 interface on the exterior of the aviation box optionally connected to the interface card . The RS 422 interface is useful for connecting the aviation box to communication systems computers e.g. Force XXI Battle Command Brigade and Below FBCB2 computers and or navigation systems of the aircraft. The RS 232 interface is useful for connecting a laptop computer as a diagnostic tool to the aviation box . In some implementations the aviation box may have an auto detect feature that recognizes if connections are made to either the RS 422 interface or the RS 232 interface. In some versions the auto detect functionality disregards connections to one of the serial connections other based on software logic executing on a processor typically associated with the transceiver within the aviation box . In one implementation the auto detect feature of the software logic instructs the aviation box to ignore commands from the RS 422 interface if a laptop or diagnostic tool is connected to the RS 232 interface. In another implementation the software logic will instruct the aviation box to multiplex between the RS 232 interface and the RS 422 interface.

In some implementations the aviation box also provides connections on the exterior of the aviation box via the interface card for external capabilities to provide enhanced functionality. In some implementations there is an interface that accepts a cryptographic fill wherein secure cryptographic keys and or data are provided to the aviation box for encrypting decrypting and or encoding decoding transmissions. In some implementations there is an interface that accepts external GPS data and or functionality. For example in some versions the GPS SAASM unit provides commercial level accuracy e.g. accurate location information within thirty 30 to one hundred 100 meters. In some of these implementations WAAS and or military grade GPS data functionality can be supplied to the aviation box via a connector on the exterior of the aviation box . WAAS and or military grade GPS is accurate within three 3 meters. In some implementations external GPS is unnecessary because the GPS SAASM unit provides WAAS level accuracy.

In some implementations the GPS unit is SAASM capable. SAASM allows for satellite authentication over the air rekeying and contingency recovery features typically available with the similar but older PPS SM system. SAASM systems allow for updating with an encrypted Black Key that may be transmitted over unclassified channels. SAASM enabled receivers can also acquire encrypted Y code directly from satellite without relying on local radio signals. By utilizing SAASM the GPS unit provides increased security reliability and or speed of communication.

In some embodiments the GPS SAASM unit utilizes a dedicated external GPS antenna interface provided via the exterior ports of the aviation box . The transceiver interfaces to the GPS SAASM unit internal to the aviation box via the interface card using a GPS serial connection. In some versions the GPS SAASM unit provides a dedicated cryptographic key port on the exterior of the aviation box for cryptographic fills. In some embodiments the GPS SAASM unit provides autonomous positioning to the aircraft. In some implementations the GPS SAASM unit provides position reporting via FBCB2 messages.

The transceiver of the aviation box sends receives text messages location data maps photos video task orders targeting data computer programs software cryptographic keys provisioning files and other communications to from the antenna . In one version the transceiver is assigned unique radio identifier. In some of these versions a customizable node name is associated with and or assigned to the unique radio identifier for easy reference by computers e.g. the aircraft s computers or computers at a ground station or by humans either operators of the aircraft the in flight transceiver system is located in or by units and or ground stations communicating with the aircraft. In one embodiment the transceiver switches to Voice over BlueForce Tracking voice over packet upon initiation and or detection of voice traffic. Upon completion of the voice communication the transceiver switches back to general BlueForce Tracking mode. In one embodiment there is a processor not shown for the transceiver that processes commands from the GPS SAASM unit Application Programming Interface API . The transceiver beneficially allows communications systems computers e.g. FBCB2 computers and navigation systems of the aircraft to utilize and or provide commands to the transceiver e.g. acting as a data modem to communicate with satellites other in flight and or ground units and or base stations.

In one embodiment the aviation box has three light emitting diode LED lights on the exterior of the box . A first LED indicates when the aviation box has a connected power supply. The second LED indicates when the transceiver has locked onto a satellite. The third LED indicates when the transceiver is transmitting. In some embodiments LED lights are additionally located remotely from the aviation box . In these embodiments the LED lights are mounted or positioned on the dashboard of the cockpit or flight area and the aviation box is located in another part of the aircraft. Typically a cable harness connects the aviation box and the LED lights.

In some implementations GPS information is sent between remote units and the ground station . Additionally or alternatively the remote units also exchange communications and or text messages directly. The GPS and or text messages typically include status information of the sending unit such as current power consumption orientation payload information heading velocity logistical operational and other situational awareness SA and or command and control C2 information. The text messages may also comprise user defined or user provided messages e.g. send help inventory low and others. The ground station sends communication packets using a streamlined low overhead protocol over an L Band communications channel such as MSAT INMARSAT Thuraya Artemis ACeS and or OPTUS. Optionally the transmission packets are transmitted using CDMA protocols.

The two way communications between the remote units and the ground station or between two remote units occur in substantially real time e.g. between three to five seconds. The messaging system is beneficial in that it allows rapid communication between the ground station and the remote units typically approximately 800 bits per second from the in flight unit to the ground unit and approximately about 2800 bits per second from the ground unit to the in flight unit .

Beneficially the sequence described above applies to a communication traveling from the ground unit via satellite to the in flight unit as well. In some implementations the streamlined format does not use defined or pre allocated communication channels but rather selects from a prioritized list of channels that have been configured as part of a provisioning process. As such network efficiency that would normally be lost due to set up and teardown of a communications channel is regained and usable to transmit communication data. In one embodiment a first communication packet is sent on one channel and a second subsequent packet is sent on a second different channel. For example in some versions the first packet is sent over an Inmarsat channel and the second packet is sent over a Thuraya channel. Beneficially in some implementations sending the packets over different channels is based on the data being sent e.g. BlueForce Tracking data is sent over the Inmarsat channel and Voice over Packet information is sent over the Thuraya channel. Additionally the method depicted in does not utilize extraneous data packet protocols e.g. Universal Datagram Packets UDP nor does the streamlined format allow for Internet Protocol IP packets. The data rate over existing communication networks increases by limiting the types of traffic on the network because much of the processing overhead used in conventional networking architectures is eliminated. Beneficially in implementations where satellite services are leased and or rented based on the amount of data transmitted and or received the optimizations of the protocol utilized also provide a significant cost savings due to the removal of excess extraneous protocol information.

The above described techniques can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The implementation can be as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . Modules can refer to portions of the computer program and or the processor special circuitry that implements that functionality.

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Data transmission and instructions can also occur over a communications network. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the above described techniques can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LED Light Emitting Diodes or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer e.g. interact with a user interface element . Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The above described techniques can be implemented in a distributed computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a ground server data server and or a middleware component e.g. an application server and or a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a satellite network a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and include both wired and wireless networks.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers or devices and having a client server relationship to each other.

The invention has been described in terms of particular embodiments. The alternatives described herein are examples for illustration only and not to limit the alternatives in any way. The steps of the invention can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

