---

title: Personal data mining
abstract: Personal data mining mechanisms and methods are employed to identify relevant information that otherwise would likely remain undiscovered. Users supply personal data that can be analyzed in conjunction with data associated with a plurality of other users to provide useful information that can improve business operations and/or quality of life. Personal data can be mined alone or in conjunction with third party data to identify correlations amongst the data and associated users. Applications or services can interact with such data and present it to users in a myriad of manners, for instance as notifications of opportunities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07930197&OS=07930197&RS=07930197
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07930197
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060928
---
Computers and computer related technology have evolved significantly over the past several decades to the point where vast amounts of computer readable data is being created and stored daily. Digital computers were initially simply very large calculators designed to aid performance of scientific calculations. Only many years later had computers evolved to a point where they were able to execute stored programs. Subsequent rapid emergence of computing power produced personal computers that were able to facilitate document production and printing bookkeeping as well as business forecasting among other things. Constant improvement of processing power coupled with significant advances in computer memory and or storage devices as well as expediential reduction in cost have led to persistence and processing of an enormous volume of data which continues today. For example data warehouses are now widespread technologies employed to support business decisions over terabytes of data.

The sheer volume of collected data made it nearly impossible for a human being alone to perform any meaningful analysis as was done in the past. This predicament led to the development of data mining and associated tools. Data mining or alternatively knowledge discovery relates to the process of exploring large quantities of data in order to discover meaningful information about the data that is generally in the form of relationships patterns and rules. In this process various forms of analysis can be employed to discern such patterns and rules in historical data for a given application or business scenario. Such information can then be stored as an abstract mathematical model of the historical data referred to as a data mining model DMM . After the DMM is created new data can be examined with respect to the model to determine if the data fits a desired pattern or rule.

Conventionally data mining is employed by large corporations to understand complex business processes. This can be achieved through discovery of relationships or patterns in data relating to past behavior of a business process. Such patterns can be utilized to improve the performance of a process by exploiting favorable and avoiding problematic patterns. Examples of business processes where data mining can be useful are customer response to advertisement energy consumption sales prediction product association and risk assessment. In each of these examples data mining can reveal which factors affect outcome of a business event or process and patterns relating the outcome to these factors. Such patterns increase understanding of these processes and therefore ability to predict and affect outcome.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Briefly described the subject disclosure pertains to personal data mining. More specifically data mining technologies can be applied to personal user data provided by users themselves gathered by others on their behalf and or generated and maintained by third parties for their benefit or as required. Mining of such data can enable identification of opportunities and or provisioning of recommendations to increase user productivity and or improve quality of life. Further yet such data can be afforded to businesses involved in market analysis or the like in a manner that balances privacy issues of users with demand for high quality information from businesses.

In accordance with an aspect of this disclosure personal user data can be received or otherwise acquired from a plurality of local and or remote data repositories. Data mining techniques can then be applied to the personal user data across a plurality of users for example to identify patterns relations and or correlations amongst the data. Subsequently or concurrently mining results and or useful information based thereon can be provided to a user in accordance with either or both of a push and pull data distribution model.

According to still another aspect of the disclosure at least a portion of the innovation can be provided by or as a cloud service. In this manner a collection of network resources can be utilized to gather mine and present results to authorized entities over substantially any device anywhere.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways in which the subject matter may be practiced all of which are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Provided herein are systems and methods associated with mining personal user information. More specifically correlations between personal data associated with a plurality users can be determined and employed to identify and present opportunities to increase productivity and or quality of life. In addition to benefits provided to individual users or groups thereof such personal information can prove invaluable to businesses engaged in market analysis and can be provided thereto in a manner that protects user privacy. Still further yet opportunities exist to utilize aspects of the innovation to generate and deliver targeted advertisements to users.

Various aspects of the subject innovation are now described with reference to the annexed drawings wherein like numerals refer to like or corresponding elements throughout. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description relating thereto are not intended to limit the claimed subject matter to the particular form disclosed. Rather the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

Referring initially to a personal data mining system is depicted in accordance with an aspect of the disclosure. The system can be embodied by a collection of components that form a cloud based personal data mining service . The service can be accessible to users over a wide area network WAN such as the Internet via one or more computers or computing devices DEVICEthrough DEVICE where N is greater than or equal to one . Such devices include without limitation thin client devices e.g. computer terminal mobile device . . . and or devices owned by someone other than the user.

Conventionally most computing undertaken by consumers including creation manipulation and maintenance of data is performed on client machines and or servers that are maintained by owners of the client machines. For example an organization can comprise a server and personal computers for each member thereof. The computers can be loaded with several applications such as web browsing applications word processing applications and the like. Data created through use of the applications can be retained upon a server that is accessible by the client through an intranet wherein the server is maintained by the organization or an IT company hired by the organization. Continued improvements in robustness and reliability associated with network connectivity suggest that a different model can be utilized in place of the conventional client intranet based architecture.

In particular a computing model architecture that utilizes thin clients and robust computing resources that are maintained off premise e.g. third party and are accessible over a WAN such as the Internet. In such a computing model a collection of hardware and or software resources also known simply as the cloud can be utilized to provide applications and or services store data process data and maintain data security inter alia. This relieves end users of being forced to perform various tasks including installing several applications on multiple computers maintaining security with respect to each computer purchasing hardware for a server for increased storage and other laborious tasks.

Here the cloud based service or simply cloud service can provide functionality for personal data mining. The service can include a data mining component and data repository s . The data mining component provides a mechanism for identifying or uncovering implicit previously unknown and potentially useful information from the data housed in the communicatively coupled data repository s . For example the data mining component can unearth patterns and or correlations amongst user data and or users themselves. The data mining component can employ a single or combination of analysis techniques including without limitation statistics regression neural networks decision trees Bayesian classifiers Support Vector Machines clusters rule induction nearest neighbor and the like to locate hidden knowledge within data. In one instance a data mining model is built and trained. Subsequently the trained model is employed to identify patterns and or correlations.

The data repository s is operable to store personal user data associated with a plurality of users. In one instance such data can include data generated by a user owned by a user or otherwise linked thereto. By way of example this data can include but is not limited to personal management information PIM data pictures videos documents e mail instant messages addresses calendar dates scheduling information e.g. birthdays anniversaries appointments . . . voice mail phone logs RSS feeds subscriptions bookmarks mail lists project management features computing device data tasks and location data. In one instance such data can be supplied by individual users via one or more devices . Additionally or alternatively user data can be provided by third parties such as purchase data identity data web interaction etc.

Application component facilitates interaction with users and user devices . The application component is communicatively coupled to data mining component and data repository s . Accordingly the application component is able to retrieve and or store personal data with respect to the data repository s . Furthermore the application component can support receiving and or retrieving data mining results and provisioning them to users in a myriad of manners as described in later sections herein. The application component is also operable to apply an additional level of processing to data mining results to interpret the results and provide users with useful information.

There are various exemplary scenarios in which the subject personal data mining system can be utilized. By way of example and not limitation based on a user s determined interests and correlations of other users interests suggestions or recommendations can be made with respect to books to read movies or plays to see and or places to visit among other things. Furthermore the data mining system can relate to groups and or groups of participating users. In one instance correlations can be made to aid a user in selection of a social network user group or other like group to join. By way of example recommendations can be made to join particular groups when a user moves to a different city. Similarly correlations can be made to increase organization efficiency. For example the mining system can identify others who are working on the same or similar project of which you are unaware. A user notified of such information can then seek out the individual to consult with regarding a project to perhaps eliminate duplicative work. It is also to be appreciated that the system can be employed by businesses in conjunction with performance of market analysis inter alia.

Another exemplary application of personal data mining can be to improve searching and more particularly ranking of search results. Very often searching requires several attempts. For instance a query might ask What is the best digital camera and where I can find the cheapest one Personal data mining can be employed to improve the process by having the search engine learn from previous searches.

Note also that system can be identity centric rather than device centric. In one implementation all or substantially all personal user information can be stored in the cloud for instance housed in data repository s . For example the data can be provided and maintained by a network based personal information management service or other like service s . In this scenario a user can designated all or a portion of content to be mined for instance via interaction with the mining application component . Furthermore the user may not only designate what data can be mined but by whom the data can be mined. Users can be provided with benefits to make the data available e.g. payments incentives . . . . Moreover generated mining results or useful information based thereon can be provided to a user over substantially any device. More specifically user identity can be authenticated based on a plurality of mechanisms such as user name and pass code biometrics third party certification and reputation. Such functionality can be performed by the application component or other designated component not shown . Once a user is authenticated he she can receive and or retrieve mining authorized results via a currently employed device . Useful information can therefore be provided to users over substantially any device anywhere.

The service also includes an interface component communicatively coupled to the data mining component and the data repository s and operable to facilitate communication between the components and and the device resident application component . Accordingly the interface component can be embodied as an application programming interface API or the any like mechanism that affords a communication bridge between disparate and remotely located components.

The application component enables interaction with service components by users or more particularly devices employed by the users among other things as previously described. In contrast to system the application component is embedded within the devices . In this manner devices can be more than thin clients and contribute to the system via execution of the application component . More specifically the application component can provided and receive data from data mining component and the data repository s and facilitate affording useful information to users. For example the application component can capture and provide at least a subset of personal data from a device store to the data repository . Subsequently data mining results such as patterns or correlations can be received retrieved or otherwise acquired from the data mining component and provided to a user or third party.

It should be appreciated that while the application component can be resident in the cloud or on a device as shown in a hybrid is also possible. In particular the application component or portions thereof can be distributed across both the cloud and the device. Processing of portions of application code can then be accomplished via either mechanism depending on context to maximize efficient execution and or throughput. For example a cloud based application component can designate a portion of the application for execution on a device where resources are available and parallel execution possible to optimize performance.

Turning attention to a cloud based service is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the disclosure. The cloud service can be employed with the systems and of . Similar to services and of systems and respectively service can include the data mining component data repository s and application component as described supra. Additionally the service includes a data configuration component communicatively coupled to the data repository s . The component is a mechanism for configuring and or preparing data for mining operations by the data mining component . In particular the data configuration component can include normalizer component merge component and aggregation component .

The normalizer component is a mechanism for normalizing or standardizing data formats to optimize mining over such data. While a single taxonomy could be forced on users the subject innovation can also be flexible enough to allow a plurality of classifications schemes to be employed by users. Accordingly users may decide to use disparate taxonomies based on their comfort level or generate their own. Once a user selects a classification he she can then tag data accordingly either manually or automatically. The normalizer component can map differing classifications and tags to a standard system. As a result the data mining component need only operate over a single standard taxonomy although it is not limited thereto. Additionally the normalizer can cleanse data tags and information of typographical formatting or other errors to facilitate optimized mining.

The merge component merges third party personal data with user supplied data. Typically users are the best source of information about themselves. However in some instances users may employ others to provide personal information. Additionally users actions and or interactions with entities may also provide valuable information about them. For example a user can employ a mobile device such as a phone that identifies and records user geographical location for various services like navigation. Likewise purchases are tracked and saved by stores. These and other types of information can be made accessible in a cloud by entities and can be utilized in mining operations.

Turning briefly to a system that merges user data is illustrated to facilitate clarity and understanding. As shown the merge component is communicatively coupled to a user data repository s third party repository s and system data repository s . While illustrated separately it should be appreciated that at least a subset of the data stores can be part of a single repository. The user data repository s can include data provided by users. In one instance the data repository s can be associated with multiple client devices and or be network based. The third party repository s can collect data about users based on their actions or interaction among other things. The third party repository s can be associated with an entity store such as a company and be network accessible via the cloud. For example the third party repository s can identify goods and or services purchased by particular users based on a single or federated identity. The merge component can receive retrieve or otherwise obtain data from either or both stores and merge them into system data repository s . In particular data can be segmented with respect to particular uses in stores . The data mining component can mine personal data across the user stores to discover useful information. Furthermore the normalizer component can be employed to insure data from both the user data repository s and the third party repository s is mapped to a standardized form to optimize mining.

Returning to the data configuration component also includes the aggregation component . The aggregation component is operable to aggregate personal user data at various levels of granularity. Such aggregation can provided different views of mined data and or preserve user privacy among other things. While the mining system disclosed herein can be utilized amongst a group of trusted individuals it is also applicable in other situations or scenarios. In particular personal information can be extremely valuable to businesses marketing firms and the like which can provide a revenue stream for the subject innovation. This may cause some users to be hesitant to use the system or provide information of little or no apparent value. However the aggregation component can ensure individual user privacy by aggregating data across users and mining over this aggregated data. In this case provided results would be based on the fact that a certain number of users prefer product A over product B rather than user A utilizes product A and user B likes product B for example. This information can still provided valuable results while also preserving user privacy and promoting system utilization.

Referring to a representative application component is depicted in accordance with an aspect of the disclosure. As previously described the application component is a mechanism that supports user interaction with the data mining component and data repository s of . The application component includes a data capture component interaction component interpretation component identity component and ad component .

The data capture component captures personal user data and provides it to the data repository s . The data capture component can also provide a plurality of functionality related to data to be provided to the data repository s . Turning to a representative data capture component is illustrated in accordance with an aspect of the disclosure. The component includes a taxonomy component that provides standardized taxonomies for employment and or supports generation of a custom taxonomy in a manner that can facilitate mapping to a standard format for mining. The taxonomy can also correspond to a folksonomy which is a collaboratively generated and open ended classification. In other words the taxonomy emerges from shared tagging practices amongst a plurality of users over time. If a map to from a taxonomy to a standard taxonomy employed by the mining component does not exist the component is operable to generate such a map utilizing standard algorithms in the industry and or machine learning techniques.

Also included as part of data capture component is a tag component communicatively coupled to the taxonomy component . The tag component provides a mechanism for tagging data in accordance with a particular taxonomy as prescribed by the taxonomy component . In one instance tag component can provide a means for tagging information manually or semi manually. Additionally or alternatively the tag component can support tagging data automatically. Among other things machine learning and or artificial intelligence based mechanisms can be employed to automatically tag data in accordance with a particular taxonomy. For example inferences can be made based on data content metadata and the like to determine proper tagging in view of a taxonomy.

A timestamp component is also provided by the data capture component . The timestamp component associates time e.g. seconds minutes hours day month year . . . with captured data items. This time can form part of metadata associated with data for instance. The time can be the time the data was captured and or any other reasonable time that can be associated with the data. For example if the data corresponds to a picture the time metadata can be linked to the picture as of the time it was captured and or any time that can be determined or inferred from the image upon image analysis or the like. In another example if the data corresponds to a scheduled event the time of the event can be associated with the data as a tag or metadata. The timestamp component thus enables a sequence of personal data to be created with respect to individual users to enable discovery and provisioning of time relevant or dependent information.

Returning to the application component includes an interaction component that is communicatively coupled to the data capture component . The interaction component facilitates receiving or retrieving data from or providing data information to individuals. For example the interaction can facilitate tagging of data and identification a subset of data to be captured. Additionally or alternatively the data mining results or useful information related thereto can be presented to a user via the interaction component . In one instance the interaction component can provide a graphical user interface GUI over a network such as the Internet or on a device to enable easy interaction.

Turning attention to a representative interaction component is depicted in accordance with an aspect of the disclosure. Component includes a setup component that enables individuals to establish modify or delete preferences with respect to receiving or otherwise interacting with data or information. Such data can be housed in communicatively coupled preference store representative of a computer readable medium or article of manufacture.

View component can present data mining results such as patterns and correlations or other useful information to individuals. The style and content associated with such presentation can be governed by defined preferences located in the preference store . For example content associated with particular interests can be presented in a graphical format alone or in combination with text sound and or video. Additionally the view component can support searches for particular information or other interactive requests. Still further yet the view component can monitor interaction with data and learn preferences which can be persisted to the preference store to allow individuals to easily navigate information that is important to them.

The interaction component also includes a notification component that notifies users of mining results and or useful information based thereon. The notification component can retrieve and respect notification preferences set by a user. For instance preferences can dictate the subject matter for which notifications are to be provided and how they are provided. By way of example a preference can be set to notify a user of information with respect to a particular work task by email. Furthermore the notification component can employ rule based logic and or machine learning mechanisms to determine if and how to notify a user. For example a determination can be made as to whether the value of the information is greater than the cost of interrupting the user and if so which method of notification would be appropriate e.g. pop up e mail text message voice message page . . . over which device e.g. computer mobile phone personal digital assistant home phone . . . . Furthermore the notification can provide a link to initiate a view provided via view component .

Context component can be communicatively coupled to both the view component and the notification component . The context component can receive retrieve or otherwise obtain or acquire context information and provide such information to components and or . The context information can include any data not accounted in the data mining processes. For example the context information can include real time location information. By way of example if it is determined that an unknown co worker is working on a similar project as the user and the user and co worker are determined to be in close proximity to one another then a notification such as text message can alert the user and provide such information. It is to be appreciated that other context information can also be employed including current time current events traveling speed among other things. For instance it can be determined that a user is traveling in his her vehicle based on historical information day time and speed acceleration associated with the user or vehicle. With this information the appropriate notification device can be selected e.g. car or mobile phone and the notification sent at a suitable time e.g. when the vehicle is stopped .

Returning to the application component can also include an interpretation component communicatively coupled to the interaction component . Interpretation component can provide an additional layer of processing to data mining results to interpret construe or infer information from such results. For instance if mining results indicate a correlation between users who prefer one product and users that prefer another such data can be interpreted to provide a suggestion to a user to try the other product based on the correlation. This aids a user in that they do not need to try to make sense of often obscure data mining results. Such functionality can be provided by the interpretation component via logic rules and or machine learning mechanism among other things. Intelligible results can then be provided to individuals through the interaction component .

Also included by the application component is an identity component that can authenticate authorize users. The identity component can employ a plurality of means to authenticate a user including but not limited to user name pass code and biometrics e.g. retina scan fingerprint handprint scent voice recognition typing pattern . . . . Further third party certification entities can be employed to assist in authenticating a user. Still further yet authentication can be predicated on user reputation and or recent actions inter alia. Once a user identity can be established within a threshold degree of confidence such identity can be provided to the data capture component and or interaction component to authorize use. For example the identity can be associated with particular data that can be provided to the service for mining. Further the information and use thereof can be limited by the interaction component based on identity. These identities can also be utilized to form groups members of which have permissions to access and or utilize certain information for instance for mining.

Still further yet the application component can include an ad component that facilitates advertisement injection. More specifically advertisements can be provided together with provisioning of mining data or the like via the interaction component . It should also be appreciated that users of different versions of the data mining service or more particularly application component can be provided with differing experiences. For example a free version of such a service can allow advertisers to inject advertisements during interaction with data such as through a view or notification inter alia. Additionally or alternatively advertisers marketers or the like can be authorized to access much more personal information that can be used for analysis and or highly tailored advertisements through the system or other means.

In one embodiment advertisers can submit advertisements and targeted demographic information criteria or the like and the ad component can provide ads to particular users based on all or a subset of personal information. More specifically ads can be matched to users satisfying advertiser specified criteria to enable advertisements to be highly tailored or targeted to particular users. Further the system or service can act as a proxy or buffer such that personal information can be utilized but not provided to unauthorized entities thereby protecting user privacy.

The aforementioned systems architectures and the like have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component to provide aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems and methods may include or consist of artificial intelligence machine learning or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent. By way of example and not limitation such mechanisms can be employed to facilitate distributed application processing normalization of data automatic tagging of data in accordance with a taxonomy normalization of data generation of views and notifications and interpreting data mining results.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Referring to a method of personal data mining is depicted in accordance with an aspect of the subject disclosure. Method provides actions associated with providing useful information from personal user data associated with more than one user for instance. At reference numeral personal user data can be received or otherwise obtained. Such data can correspond to personal information management PIM data amongst other data associated with particular users. At numeral at least a subset of the received or retrieved personal user data associated with a plurality of users can be mined to identify patterns correlations or other previously unknown information. In general such data mining can be used to achieve a kind of wisdom of the crowds effect where data can be aggregated amongst many users to identify trends and patterns and the like. The results of the mining process can be provided to a user at . Provisioning of such data can take a myriad of formats including at least one of text sound graphics and video. Furthermore the results can be provided in accordance with either a push e.g. notification or pull e.g. search model. The results can be utilized by business to better understand markets and or by individual users or groups of users to improve productivity and or quality of life.

Data from one or more third party can be received or otherwise obtained at reference . Third party data can be data collected on behalf of a user by a third party and or recordings of actions associated with the third party among other things. Examples of third party data can comprise network accessible information such as that which is public and or may become public including but not limited to professional memberships affiliations professional licenses driving record criminal convictions property ownership birth certificates phone logs purchase records and tax records.

The personal user data obtained from users and third parties can be merged at numeral . More specifically the user data can be combined for instance intelligently to produce a combined set of data. For example personal data from both users and third parties can be linked to particular individuals and or identities. It should also be appreciated that time can be associated with this merged data thereby providing a sequence of personal user data.

At numeral data can be aggregated at one or more levels. Aggregation can provide additional value in particular contexts such as during mining and data presentation. Furthermore user privacy can afford at least a degree of protection by utilizing combined or aggregated data rather than data associated with particular individuals.

The data as prepared can be mined at reference . Mining can employ various techniques including statistics classification and machine learning to identity relations patterns and or correlations amongst personal user data. For example a trained data mining model can be applied to the merged and aggregated data.

The results of the mining operation can subsequently be supplied to requesting entities such as users and third parties at reference numeral . The actual results can be filtered by identity or in accordance with privacy policies associated with at least a subset of users. In one instance results can be supplied view a graphical user interface in accordance with settings and or through a search. Additionally or alternatively notifications can be generated and set to individuals including the mined results or interpretations thereof. Optionally targeted advertisements can be injected within the act of supplying data information to entities.

As used herein the terms component system service and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an instance an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The term entity is intended to include one or more individuals users. These users may be associated formally or informally for instance as a member of a group organization or enterprise. Alternatively entities and or users can be completely unrelated.

A cloud is intended to refer to a collection of resources e.g. hardware and or software provided and maintained by an off site party e.g. third party wherein the collection of resources can be accessed by an identified user over a network e.g. Internet WAN . . . . The resources provide services including without limitation data storage services security services and or many other services or applications that are conventionally associated with personal computers and or local servers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Furthermore examples are provided solely for purposes of clarity and understanding and are not meant to limit the subject innovation or relevant portion thereof in any manner. It is to be appreciated that a myriad of additional or alternate examples could have been presented but have been omitted for purposes of brevity.

Furthermore all or portions of the subject innovation may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed innovation. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a program that runs on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor multiprocessor or multi core processor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed innovation can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects disclosed herein includes a computer e.g. desktop laptop server hand held programmable consumer or industrial electronics . . . . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available microprocessors. It is to be appreciated that dual microprocessors multi core and other multiprocessor architectures can be employed as the processing unit .

The system memory includes volatile and nonvolatile memory. The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM . Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which can act as external cache memory to facilitate processing.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example mass storage . Mass storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic or optical disk drive floppy disk drive flash memory or memory stick. In addition mass storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media.

The computer also includes one or more interface components that are communicatively coupled to the bus and facilitate interaction with the computer . By way of example the interface component can be a port e.g. serial parallel PCMCIA USB FireWire . . . or an interface card e.g. sound video network . . . or the like. The interface component can receive input and provide output wired or wirelessly . For instance input can be received from devices including but not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner camera other computer and the like. Output can also be supplied by the computer to output device s via interface component . Output devices can include displays e.g. CRT LCD plasma . . . speakers printers and other computers among other things.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . Here the client s can correspond to network computing devices and the server s can form at least a portion of the cloud. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers . By way of example the one or more servers and associated data stores can form at least part of a cloud for housing data and or provisioning services in accordance with various aspects of the subject disclosure. Further the client s and related stores can correspond to client devices of and in one instance can be thin clients. Further yet the clients or portions thereof can form part of the network cloud.

What has been described above includes examples of aspects of the claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the disclosed subject matter are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has or having or variations in form thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

