---

title: Method and system for advertisement placement based on network trail proximity
abstract: Users that visit a network site typically visit other sites in the same session. The surfing pattern or “trail” through the sites is significant because it may outline the underlining relationship between those sites. Once such data is available, the relationship between sites on the same user trails may be used to determine the placement of advertisements for sites by publishers. Additionally, the popularity or volume of traffic that navigates along a particular user trail may be used to affect the ranking/ordering of advertisements placed on a certain publisher site. An advertising broker may determine advertising pricing in part based on navigational path or user trail information. Thus, placing advertising on sites that are closer in proximity to the advertised site may cost more than placing advertising on sites not as close in proximity to the advertised site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07779147&OS=07779147&RS=07779147
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 07779147
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 479 225 titled Method and System for Associating Search Keywords with Interest Spaces filed Jun. 30 2006 whose inventors are Christopher L. Scofield Elmore Eugene Pope and Brad E. Marshall and which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety

This invention relates to computing systems and more particularly to online advertisement placement based on user navigational path information.

As the reach and accessibility of computer networks such as the Internet increase the amount of information accessible via such networks has grown exponentially. For example as commercial enterprises increasingly embrace electronic commerce techniques numerous web sites offering information and purchasing opportunities for various products and services have appeared. Major media outlets commonly provide web based versions of content previously available only through print or broadcast channels and in some instances generate considerable volumes of content exclusively for web based distribution. The reduction of cost complexity and other barriers to entry into web based content publishing has also facilitated the generation and dissemination of content by individual creators.

As the amount of online content increases the difficulty of locating content that is of general or specific interest also increases. Unlike libraries which may employ standardized systems of content classification such as the Library of Congress System or the Dewey Decimal System no standard for organizing and representing web based content exists. Numerous search engines have evolved to attempt to index web pages according to the page contents e.g. as given by the textual content actually displayed by the page when loaded into a browser or client or by concealed metadata such as tags associated with or embedded within the page . Such search engines have further attempted to qualify the relevance of a given indexed page using other features of the page such as its age and or the number of links to the given indexed page from other indexed pages. For example for a given keyword search a page that satisfies the search criteria and is linked to from many sources may be considered a more relevant search result than a page having fewer external references.

In order to successfully draw Internet users to their web sites publishers or advertisers frequently associate their content with particular keywords so that search engines display a particular web site or URL as part of the result of a user search including those keywords. Search engine frequently allow advertisers to bid on keywords and display the web page for an advertiser that placed a higher bid higher up on the display list. Thus advertisers that are willing to pay more money to be associated with a particular keyword may receive more prominent display among the results of a user s search. Thus the selection of relevant and accurate keywords by advertisers is increasingly important.

Similarly the decision of where to place online advertisements such as on what web pages is also increasingly complicated due to the high demand for advertising on popular web sites. Additionally advertisers must typically pay more to advertise on more popular web pages. In other words an advertiser may have to pay more to advertise on a web site that receives a lot of Internet traffic.

Users that visit a network site typically visit other sites in the same session. The surfing pattern or trail through the pages is significant because it may outline the underlining relationship between those pages or sites. Once such user navigational path data is available the relationship between network sites on the same user trails may be used to determine the placement of advertisements for network sites by publishers of those sites.

For example suppose navigational path information indicates a trail of Sx Sy Sz people who visit site Sy often come from site Sx and then go on to site Sz . A client C that owns and or publishes site Sy may seek to advertise through an advertisement broker B. Given that the user trail information indicates that users navigate from site Sx to site Sy it may be effective to place advertisements for site Sy on site Sx. Similarly it may also be effective to place to advertisements for site Sy on site Sz.

Additionally the popularity or volume to traffic that navigates along a particular user trail may be used to affect the ranking ordering of advertisements placed on a publisher s site. For example if more users navigate from Sx to Sz than from Sy to Sz site Sx may be ranked higher than Sy when the sites are ranked in terms of effectiveness for placement of advertisements for Sz. An advertising broker may determine advertising pricing in part based on navigational path or user trail information.

While the invention is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. Any headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used herein the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Navigational path information regarding user navigation between and among network sites or other network resources may be analyzed to determine user trails or navigational paths between and among network sites such as web sites or other network resources. Such user trails may be used to aid in various types of advertising decisions such as selecting keywords to associate with a site or to determine where to place advertisements for a network site according to various embodiments. Network traffic patterns such as the order in which users navigate among network sites may be collected such as by users web browsers and or network site hosts and may be aggregated over time. For example a search toolbar or other browser plug in may be installed in a web browser and may be configured to collect user trail navigational path or other network traffic pattern information according to some embodiments. In another embodiment user navigational activity may be recorded in a user log that may subsequently be analyzed to determine network traffic patterns or user trails.

For example in some embodiments the publisher of a particular network site may determine one or more other sites from which users access the particular network site. For instance a site S1 may be frequently accessed from a link on a site S2. Thus a user trail may be considered to exist from site S2 to S1. Advertisers and other entities may utilize information regarding such traffic patterns or user trails when making decisions regarding advertising. For example analysis of network paths may determine that a large number of users access site S2 prior to accessing site S1. Thus placing an advertisement for site S1 on site S2 may increase the visibility of site S1. Similarly associating keywords related to site S2 with site S1 may increase the visibility of site S1 to user searches. In other words by determining user trails through and among various sites and by relating those sites such as by associating or placing advertising content or associating common keywords with the site advertisers and other network entities may take advantage of users network activity.

When users access two sites the keywords or search query terms that surface one of the sites to users may also work to surface the other site. For example two network sites may only be related by the fact that a high number of users may have accessed both sites. For instance analysis of network path and or network user trail information may determine that a high number of users that visit a particular luxury car site also visit sites related to other luxury items such as wine related sites. Thus a wine distributor may associate a wine related site with keywords regarding luxury cars in order to attract more users. Similarly the wine distributor may also pay to place advertising for the wine related site on the luxury car site.

While described herein mainly by use of the terms site network site or web page please note that network navigational pattern information paths and user trails may also include other network resources such as databases file systems or other types of data repositories accessible by protocols other than network based protocols. The term site as used herein may in various embodiments refer to an entire network domain a particular network site web page or even a particular portion of a site or web page. Also the terms network pattern navigational path and user trail may used synonymously and interchangeably herein. Additionally varying levels or granularity of network pattern information navigational paths and user trails may also be collected analyzed and utilized as part of keyword suggestion and or advertising decisions as described herein. For example in one embodiment a navigational path or user trail may indicate how a user or users visited various network domains. In other embodiments network pattern information may indicate how users visited individual network sites web pages network resources or even specific locations on network sites or web pages.

An advertising broker or search engine may analyze or navigational path information in order to suggest keywords to potential customers. Advertisers frequently pay for particular keywords in order to have their advertising content be part of the results displayed by a search engine when users use those keywords as search query terms. The search engine provider may analyze network traffic patterns and or user network path information in order to suggest different or better keywords to potential advertisers. For example if user trail information indicates that a high number of users access site S2 from site S1 the search engine provider may suggest keywords related to site S2 to the provider of site S1. Similarly if user trail information analysis indicates that a high number of users access site S3 from site S2 keywords related to or associated with site S3 may be suggested as keywords for site S2.

Additionally advertisers may utilize user trail analysis to determine the network site on which to place advertising content. For example an advertiser may associate advertising content for site S2 with site S1 if user trail analysis indicates that sites S1 and S2 are near or proximate each other according to user trail analysis. In some embodiments two sites may be considered near each other if users access both sites within a short amount of time or if users access one site from the other even if the users also access a number of sites in between. Please note that in some embodiments users do not have to follow or use explicit links on a site in order to generate a user trail. For example a user may access various sites by explicitly typing in various URLs and still generate a user trail or navigational path. In general a user trail may be generated by a user accessing a number of network sites in a particular order. The trails of a number of users may be aggregated such as over time and analyzed to determine traffic patterns or aggregated navigational paths. Analysis of such traffic patterns and user trail information may determine that certain sites are more popular than others and that a high number of users access a particular site from another site or that a high number of users access a certain set of sites as a group. In other words two sites that are otherwise unrelated may both be accessed by a high number of common users.

According to various embodiments associating advertising content may represent any of various ways of advertising linking or referring to a particular site. For example in one embodiment a banner advertisement may be placed on a web page. In another embodiment a descriptive link may be placed in a list of links on a query search results page. In yet other embodiments associating advertising content may include inserting textual and or graphical advertising content into the contents of a site configuring an anchor link on a site or inserting a Trackback link on a weblog site. In some embodiments a TrackBack link may be a particular linking feature frequently used in weblogs allowing a particular site to be notified when a link to that particular site is included on another site.

In some embodiments analysis of user trail information may indicate that more users access a first network site from a second network site than access the first network site from a third network site. For example more users may access site S from site S than access site S from site S. Thus the publisher of site S may place advertising for site S on site S in order to have the advertising viewed by more users according to one embodiment. In another embodiment however the publisher may place advertising content for site S on site S in order to generate more traffic from site S to site S. Also an advertiser may pay more to ensure more prominent display of advertising content on sites that are more proximate the advertised site than on sites that are less proximate. For example an advertisement may be placed higher up in a list of advertisements based on how proximate the advertised site is to the site on which the ad is placed. Similarly the cost of placing the advertisement on a more proximate site may be more expensive than placing the advertisement on a less proximate site.

Similarly if more users access site S from site S than access site S from site S keywords related to site S may be associated with site S to attempt to generate more visibility such as in search engine results for site S. Additionally an advertiser may pay more for keywords associated with a network site that is near or proximate an advertised site when selecting keywords to associate with the advertised site.

Additionally the cost for placing advertising content may vary according to where on a site the advertising content is placed. For example it may cost more to place an advertisement higher up on a displayed web page according to some embodiments. Similarly including a link for a particular network site higher up in a list of links such as may be included in search results may cost more than including the link lower down in the list. Additionally in one embodiment placing an advertisement for a particular network site spatially near a link used to access the particular site may be more expensive than placing the advertisement somewhere else on the same site. In another embodiment however placing the advertisement near a link to the advertised site may be less expensive than placing the advertisement near the top of a site. In general the cost of associating advertising content with a network site may vary with the prominence of the advertising content and an advertiser may be willing to pay more to associate advertising content with sites that are in closer proximity to the advertised network site or other advertised resource .

Please note that a cost for associating both keyword and advertising content with a network site may be described herein as dependent or related to various aspects or criteria regarding network navigational path or user trail information. In some embodiments other factors unrelated to network navigational path or user trail information may also be used when determining advertising cost for keywords and or advertising content.

Generally speaking hosts may be instances of network content sources where a network content source may encompass any suitable type of data that may be conveyed over a network including but not limited to text documents still image data page image data audio data video data metadata such as markup language tags communication protocol data such as content preambles epilogues computer code and so forth. In many embodiments hosts may be configured to provide content to user systems via network based data request and transport protocols. For example hosts may be configured to host network sites implementing Uniform Resource Identifiers URIs such as may correspond to web pages documents or other content and to receive requests for access to particular URIs formatted in a version of the Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP data transport protocol. In response to such requests hosts may be configured to access the content corresponding to the requested URI and to provide it to the user system in accordance with the HTTP protocol. It is contemplated that in some embodiments application layer data transport protocols other than or in addition to HTTP may be used to convey requests for content and the resulting content to and from hosts . For example a secure authenticated version of HTTP may be employed as may a version of File Transfer Protocol FTP or any other suitable protocol. Hereinafter a content source may be referred to simply as a content source although it is understood that the content of a content source may be conveyed or accessed via some type of communication network.

In some embodiments a given host may be configured as a self contained standalone web server that both stores content and receives and processes requests for stored content. In other embodiments a given host may be included within a complex content server architecture. For example host may be configured as an application or content server that does not actually store content but is instead configured to retrieve requested content from a database or other repository not shown that may not be directly connected to network .

User systems in general may encompass any device system or software application that may be configured to request and or view network content. For example a user system may include a general purpose computing system configured to implement a web browser such as a version of Microsoft Internet Explorer Firefox Opera or another suitable web browser or client application. User system may also include functionality defined by scripts such as JavaScript modules configured to execute in a standalone environment or an execution environment provided by a web browser. User system may alternatively be configured to host a syndicated content aggregator that may use a publish subscribe protocol such as RSS to notify users of the existence of new or updated content. In some embodiments a user system may include mobile devices such as cellular phone or wireless devices configured to request content via embedded clients. A user system may further encompass other types of network attached devices such as television set top boxes digital video recorders electronic book readers etc.

Network s may include any suitable data network or combination of networks configured for communicating content requests and content between users systems and hosts . For example network may include one or more Local Area Networks LANs such as Ethernet networks as well as Wide Area Networks WANs Metropolitan Area Networks MANs or other data or telecommunication networks implemented over any suitable medium such as electrical or optical cable or via any suitable wireless standard such as IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMax etc. In various embodiments all or a portion of network may encompass the network infrastructure commonly referred to as the Internet. In other embodiments network may be entirely contained within an enterprise and not directly accessible from the Internet. For example network may be configured as an enterprise intranet where hosts and user systems are local to an enterprise.

While content hosted by hosts may often conform to a web based model in which content may be requested via URIs and delivered to a web browser or other web client this is not a requirement for the methods and techniques described herein. Broadly speaking hosts may host any type of network content and may interact with user systems according to any suitable request response model to provide the hosted content. For example in some embodiments hosts may be configured as databases file systems or other types of data repositories accessible by protocols other than network based protocols.

Generally speaking user systems may request and receive content from hosts via network . In some instances the pattern of such requests may indicate users navigation between and among network sites and may represent a path or trail among various network sites or other content locations. In some embodiments the traffic pattern and resultant trails of many different users may be aggregated over time to determine aggregated pattern or trail information. For example if many different user systems navigate from one site to another site a pattern or trail may be considered to exist between the two sites. Similarly if many different user systems navigate from the second site to a third site the trail may be extended from the first site to the third site via the second site. Additionally more than one traffic pattern or trail may exist between or among a set of sites. For instance using the same three sites mentioned above one trail may exists from the first site to the second site and on to the third site while another trail may exist from the first site to the third site without passing through the second site indicating that some users via users systems navigate from the first site to the third site without visiting or accessing the second site.

In some embodiments network sites that are accessed by users in close proximity to another site may be considered near or proximate the other site. For example when navigational pattern information indicates that users navigate from a first site to a second site and then on to a third site the three sites may be considered near or proximate each other. In one embodiment the first site may be considered nearer or more proximate the second site than the third site and the third site may be considered nearer or more proximate the second site than the first site.

Various criteria may be used to determine whether one network site is proximate another site or to determine whether one site is more proximate than another site to a third site according to different embodiments. In another words a level of proximity may be determined for various network sites in relation to a particular site. For example in one embodiment the number of sites between two network sites may be used a measure of whether one site is proximate another. Thus a given number of hops e.g. number of steps or links in a network path or user trail between two sites may determine whether the two sites are proximate. Additionally the number of hops between two sites may correspond to a level of proximity between the two sites. In another embodiment the number of users that travel a particular path or trail or the number of users that visit two sites whether or not every user follows the same path between the sites may determine whether the two sites are proximate. In yet another embodiment the amount of time between when users access two sites may be used as a criterion to determine how proximate the two sites are.

Additionally user quality or aggregate user quality may be used to determine the proximity of sites. For instance the average or aggregate quality of all users that visit two sites may be used to determine whether the two sites are proximate. User quality may be determined in various manners. For example user profile information may be used to determine how likely a user is to purchase a particular type of product or service. Those users determined to be more likely to make a purchase may be considered of higher quality for determining the proximity of two sites visited by those users. Similarly information regarding other sites visited by users users geographic location occupation etc. may be used at least in part to determine a user quality. Thus a site visited by users of higher average quality may be considered to be more proximate to a particular site than a site visited by users by lower quality.

A number of sites may be ranked according to any such criteria to determine each site s relative proximity or nearness to a particular site according to some embodiments. For example the respective number of hops between each of various network sites and a particular network site may be used to determine a level of proximity for each of the sites thus ranking the sites by their respective proximity to the particular site. Similarly the amount of time either average or aggregate between users accessing each of various proximate sites and accessing a particular site may correspond to a level of proximity for each of the various proximate sites and therefore may be used to rank each of the various proximate sites by their respective proximity to the particular site. In general any criterion or criteria used to determine whether a first site is proximate to another site may also be used to determine a level of proximity for the first site and may also be used to rank various sites according to their respective proximity to the particular site.

Additionally when more than one trail or path exists among various sites the different tails may be weighted according to various techniques. For example in one embodiment the amount of actual traffic e.g. the number of users navigating along a particular path may be used to weight different user trails. Thus a trail which more users navigate may be weighted more heavily that a trail that fewer users navigate according to one embodiment. In another embodiment more recently navigated trails may be weighted more heavily that trails that have not been navigated as recently.

The location of links and or the location of the target of links may also be used to rank the proximity of sites according to some embodiments. For example an anchor link may be considered a link that targets a specific location within a network site or within a web page. Thus in one embodiment only sites including anchor links to a particular network site may be considered proximate to the particular site. In another embodiment sites that include anchor links targeting a specific location within a particular network site such as a specific page or a specific location within a page may be considered proximate to the particular network site. Similarly even though several sites may all be considered proximate to a particular network site those sites including anchor links or those including anchor links to specific locations of the particular network site may be ranked more highly or be considered to have a higher level of proximity to the particular network sites. Thus in some embodiments an advertiser may be willing to pay more for associating advertising content with sites that include anchor links than for associating advertising content with sites that do not include anchor links. Similarly advertising content placed spatially near an anchor link may be more effective and therefore may cost more than advertising content placed elsewhere on the same site or page.

Additionally advertising content may be tailored to match the location targeted by an anchor link according to some embodiments. For example if an anchor link targets a specific product description on a particular network site advertising content regarding the particular network site may be tailored to refer to the specific product and may also be placed spatially near the anchor link targeting the specific product description.

The presence of anchor links to other sites on the same network path or user trail as a particular network site even if those anchor links do not specifically target the particular network site may be used when determining proximity and advertising cost. For example sites S1 S2 S3 and S4 may all be indicated as being on the same or related user trails. Both site S1 and site S2 may be proximate site S3 and site S4 may include an anchor link to a specific location on site S1. If the user trail information indicates that more users visit sites S3 via the anchor link on site S4 to site S1 than visit site S3 via site S2 site S1 may be ranked higher in proximity to site S3 than site S2. Similarly it may cost more to place an advertisement for site S3 on site S1 and may cost even more to place the advertisement near the target of the anchor link on site S1 than to place the advertisement on site s2.

As will be discussed below in more detail a user or user system 110 may navigate among network sites in various manners according to different embodiments. For example in one embodiment a user may navigate using explicit links in the content. For instance the content of a first site may include an explicit link sometimes referred as a hyperlink to a second site. By selecting an explicit link such as by using a mouse to click on the link a user may navigate to the second site and the content of the second site may be requested received and displayed by a user system . In other embodiments however a user may type in a location such as a URI to which to navigate. In yet other embodiments a user may use a search engine such as by typing in one or more search query terms and may navigate to various sites by selecting links returned by the search engine. Thus network traffic patterns and or user trails may be generated by users and user systems navigating among network sites using various techniques.

As described above a host may receive content request traffic from various user systems that is directed to content hosted by host . For example a host may receive HTTP GET requests directed to a particular URI or a different type of content request according to a different data transport protocol. In the illustrated embodiment hosts may be instrumented with traffic reporting logic which in various embodiments may include scripts code or hardwired logic configured to report content request traffic to traffic pattern analysis system . In other embodiments users system may be configured to report a user s traffic pattern through and among various content e.g. web pages to one or more hosts or other servers. For example user system may include traffic reporting logic such as may be implemented by a web browser or a browser plug in configured to capture and report a user s navigational activity to traffic pattern analysis system according to some embodiments. For example in one embodiment traffic reporting logic may represent a browser plug in such a search toolbar plug in configured to capture and or report a user s navigational activity. In another embodiment traffic reporting logic may represent web browser functionality configured to record user navigational activity in one or more user logs that may be analyzed such as by traffic pattern analysis system to determine network patterns or user trails. Similarly in yet another embodiment traffic reporting logic may be configured to report user navigational activity directly to traffic pattern analysis system such as by reporting each site or other network resource visited by a user as the user visits those sites or resources. Traffic pattern analysis system may then analyze the reported user navigational activity and or other network pattern information to determine network patterns or user trails.

In one embodiment traffic reporting logic whether implemented on hosts or user systems may be configured to invoke one or more web services WS calls targeting the WS interface of traffic pattern analysis system as the service endpoint. For example host may detect an incoming HTTP GET request specifying a given URI. In response traffic pattern analysis system may be notified of the content request traffic via a web services call and the reported request traffic may be stored e.g. by traffic pattern analysis system such as in trail information . Trail information may represent any suitable data storage system or technique. For example in one embodiment trail information may represent a database of navigational pattern information.

Traffic pattern analysis system may in some embodiments be configured to store received content request traffic data using any suitable format or methodology. For example traffic pattern analysis system may store such data in arrays tables trees databases hashed structures or other suitable data structures either internal to traffic pattern analysis system such as in trail information or distributed among one or several external systems not shown such as database systems file systems etc. In some embodiments traffic pattern analysis system may store historical content request traffic data for arbitrary periods of time while in other embodiments data older than a threshold age e.g. days months etc. may be automatically purged or moved to secondary storage.

In one embodiment traffic reporting logic may be configured to issue a web services call according to the following format 

where corresponds to the Internet address of WS interface in name or numeric form and where denotes the requested or targeted URL. In the illustrated embodiment two referrer URLs may also be supplied. The first referrer URL may correspond to the URL from which the request for the targeted URL originated. For example the request may have been generated by a user selecting e.g. clicking a link or otherwise executing a navigation operation on some other web page or network site in which case the first referrer URL may include the URL of that other web page. Similarly the second referrer URL may include the URL of the site page or other resource that referred to the first referrer URL e.g. the URL that is two links previous to the targeted URL in the navigation history of the requestor . More or fewer referrers may be provided in various embodiments. Also additional or different parameters may be used in the web services call in various embodiments. For example date and or time information associated with the occurrence of the content request may be embedded by the host within the web services call used to report the content request. Alternatively such information may be recorded by traffic pattern analysis system when it receives such a report. Over time different hosts may report content request traffic indicating users navigational patterns to traffic pattern analysis system via traffic reporting logic . As a result over time traffic pattern analysis system may accumulate a body of data indicative of navigational traffic patterns from many different user systems . Such data may serve as the basis for navigation path analysis as described herein.

It is noted that in some embodiments when a user navigates away from content on a particular host to a different content source e.g. a URI hosted by a different host the particular host may be configured to detect the outgoing transition. In some such embodiments hosts may be configured to report such outgoing content request traffic to IA system via traffic reporting logic in addition to incoming content request traffic. Since navigation away from one content source typically implies navigation towards another even if the target host is not instrumented to report content request traffic data e.g. with an instance of traffic reporting logic in some circumstances content request traffic data may still be captured by the host from which the user is navigating away.

Generally speaking recording information regarding the navigational path taken by a user to a content source e.g. the target URL as well as its referrers may be conceptually similar to an insect marking its path with a pheromone. If a sufficient number of users navigate to a particular content source through a certain set of paths those paths may be distinguished from other paths e.g. random paths via the accumulation of pheromone e.g. recorded traffic information . In the example web services call shown above the specified operation AddPheromone may indicate to traffic pattern analysis system that the supplied content request traffic information should be recorded and analyzed. It is noted however that the use of the term pheromone in this context is purely illustrative or metaphorical and that some characteristics of biological pheromones may not be directly applicable to analysis of content request traffic as described herein.

It is noted that in various embodiments traffic reporting logic may be configured to invoke WS interface in any of a number of suitable ways. The example above may be representative of a web services invocation in a Representational State Transfer REST style web services architecture. Alternatively host may communicate with WS interface using a document or message oriented architecture for example by formatting the web services request as an eXtensible Markup Language XML document encapsulating such a document using a version of the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and conveying the resulting encapsulated document to WS interface for processing. Different numbers or types of parameters for communicating information about content request traffic targeting host may be employed in various embodiments. In some embodiments hosts may communicate with interface using protocols other than web services related protocols. For example such communication may take place using protocols such as Telnet Remote Procedure Call RPC or other standard or proprietary protocols. Also in some embodiments it is contemplated that a host may combine and report information for multiple distinct content requests as part of a single web services transaction with WS interface .

An administrator of a host may integrate traffic reporting logic directly within the other functionality of host that is configured to process content requests and provide content. However in some embodiments traffic reporting logic may be configured as a self contained platform independent software module that may be downloaded remotely invoked or otherwise obtained from a third party e.g. the party providing traffic pattern analysis system and implemented by an administrator of a host with minimal alteration to the configuration of host . For example traffic reporting logic may be implemented as a JavaScript module or a software module coded in another suitable language. Upon activation traffic reporting logic may be configured to generate the appropriate web services calls to report content request traffic to traffic pattern analysis system in a manner that is generally transparent to the other operations performed by host . Traffic reporting logic may be implemented to have minimal impact on content request throughput. For example if traffic reporting logic cannot contact WS interface to report a particular content request the request may still be allowed to complete.

Although in some embodiments traffic reporting logic may execute on host in other embodiments it may be implemented as a module such as a JavaScript module that is delivered by host to a user system along with the requested content. Traffic reporting logic may then be executed by the user system rather than the host in order to report the request. In other embodiments traffic reporting logic may be implemented on a proxy server that may be located between user system and host . The general function of traffic reporting logic may be similar regardless of whether the logic is implemented for host side client side or proxy server execution.

Through the reporting of instances of content request traffic by hosts traffic pattern analysis system may gather data indicative of both the global traffic behavior among hosts as well as traffic behavior relative to a subset of hosts or within an individual host e.g. among the different URIs hosted by a particular host . In some embodiments traffic pattern analysis system may store each traffic report received from a host as an individual data record such as in trail information while in other embodiments traffic pattern analysis system may be configured to aggregate or consolidate traffic records in various ways. For example traffic pattern analysis system may aggregate content request traffic data into time slots according to intervals of time such as seconds minutes hours days or other suitable intervals. Those data points falling within a given time slot may be aggregated for the purposes of analysis.

Additionally advertising broker system may be configured to utilize navigational traffic patterns or user trails for various advertising purposes such as suggesting keywords for network sites associating keywords with network sites and or placing advertising content on network sites. In some embodiments advertising broker system may represent a computer system that combines the hosting capabilities of a host as well as the traffic pattern analysis capabilities of traffic pattern analysis system . For example in one embodiment advertising broker system may host or publish a network site providing advertising opportunities and that may also collect and analyze navigational patterns and or user trails.

As noted above keywords associated with network sites that are nearby or proximate a particular site may be associated with the particular site. For instance in one embodiment admin system may be utilized by the publisher of a particular site such as a network site provided by a host Admin system may represent a computer system used to request aggregated navigational pattern information or to request and utilize suggested keywords based on navigational pattern information. A user of admin system may desire to bid on one or more keywords such as to have an advertisement for the provided network site be included in a search engine s results. Thus in some embodiments admin system may communicate with advertising broker system requesting one or more suggested keywords to associate with the particular network site. In response advertising broker system may be configured to communicate with traffic pattern analysis to request one or more sites that are considered near or proximate the particular site.

Advertising broker may additionally be configured to determine one or more keywords associated with the proximate sites. For example advertising broker may be configured to determine keywords already associated with the proximate sites such as may be indicated in metadata of proximate sites according to one embodiment. In one embodiment keywords that are already associated with sites such as might be included in an advertising broker s store of keyword associations may be used. In other words an advertising broker may already have a set of keywords associated with various sites and thus may use those keywords when determining keyword to potentially associate another proximate those sites. In another embodiment advertising broker may be configured to analyze the content of one or more of the proximate sites to determine keywords. In yet other embodiments keywords may be determined from the character tone or nature of a site. As various methods of detecting keywords associated with sites and of analyzing content to determine keywords is well known they will not be discussed in more detail herein.

Generally speaking navigational pattern data may be retrieved from traffic pattern analysis system by an application for any suitable purpose. For example an application or system such as advertising broker may seek to retrieve raw content traffic reports submitted to traffic pattern analysis system in order to perform its own analysis. Other applications may request content interest data derived by traffic pattern analysis system such as weighted user trails a set of network sites that are proximate another site or information on navigation paths or aggregate paths according to various embodiments.

Navigational pattern information or user trail information may be retrieved from traffic pattern analysis system according to any suitable technique. For example in embodiments where traffic pattern analysis system is configured to store records tables or other data structures including interest data various applications may query traffic pattern analysis system via WS interface to retrieve interest data for a particular content source or a number of sources.

In one embodiment an application or system such as advertising broker may be configured to place advertisements within content based on navigational patterns and or user trail information. For example an advertisement may be placed on a network site based on the content of or keywords associated with network sites that are proximate particular site. Additionally the cost charged for advertising placement may be based on navigational pattern or user trail information according to some embodiments. For example the highest rates may be charged for placement on content sources or sites that are on or associated with more popular user trails e.g. trails that have higher traffic volume .

Similarly the cost associated with keywords or search query terms may also be based on navigational patterns or user trail information. As noted above frequently a search engine may allow advertisers to bid for more prominent display of their advertisement in the results provided by the search engine. For instance in some embodiments an advertiser may bid more for a keyword associated with sites proximate the site to be advertised. Thus in one embodiment the publisher of a site such as a site provided by a host may seek to advertise the published site and may utilize advertising broker to determine suggested keywords associated with sites near the site to be advertised as indicated by user trail information provided by traffic pattern analysis system . The publisher may then bid more for those keywords associated with proximate sites than for keywords not associated with proximate sites according to one embodiment. In some embodiments admin system may represent a computer system used by the publisher of a site to communicate with advertising broker to request keywords associated with site near the site to be advertised.

Additionally in some embodiments the cost of associating advertising content with a network site may vary depending upon how proximate the advertised site is to the site with which the advertising content is being associated. Similarly when placing an advertisement the more proximate the advertised site is to the site on which the ad is placed may determine how prominent e.g. how high up in a list or set of advertisements the advertisement is. Thus the cost of placing an advertisement on a number of different sites may vary depending upon how proximate each of those sites is to the advertised site according to some embodiments.

In some embodiments a human administrator may use admin system to communicate with advertising broker to request suggested keywords such as via a web page provided by advertising broker . For instance admin system may communicate a request including the URL of a network site to be advertised or of other interest to advertising broker and advertising broker may communicate with traffic pattern analysis system to determine one or more sites proximate the site to be advertised as indicated by user navigational trail information. Advertising broker may then determine one or more keywords associated with the proximate sites and suggest those keywords to the administrator such as by communicating the suggested keywords to admin system in a generated web page or other network content results.

In some embodiments as noted above advertising broker system may include the traffic pattern analysis functionality of traffic pattern analysis system and thus may not communicate with another system to determine network sites that are proximate a particular network site. In another embodiment admin system may be configured to communicate directly with traffic pattern analysis system to obtain navigation pattern information or trail information indicating network sites that are near or proximate a particular network site such as a network site to be advertised. Admin system may then determine one or more keywords to associate with the site to be advertised and communicate with advertising broker system to utilize those keywords as part of advertising the site. For example admin system may communicate with advertising broker to bid on those keywords regarding placement of an advertisement in search engine results.

In other embodiments advertising broker may be configured to place advertising content on various network sites or other content such as may be hosted by hosts . Additionally admin system may communicate with advertising broker system to request suggested web pages on which to advertise a particular web page to be advertised. In response advertising broker system may determine one or more sites that are near or proximate the particular site along navigational patterns or user trails and suggest those proximate sites and potential locations to advertise the particular site according to one embodiment. For instance advertising broker may be configured to request user trail information from traffic pattern analysis system to determine sites that are proximate the site to be advertised. For example sites that are on the same navigational paths or user trails as the site to be advertised may be suggested as potential locations for advertising the particular site.

In other embodiments however admin system may be configured to communicate with traffic pattern analysis system to determine sites that are proximate the site to be advertised. Thus in some embodiments the publisher of a site may determine one or more sites proximate a site to be advertised while in other embodiments the publisher may utilize advertising broker to determine proximate sites. As noted above sites that are on the same navigational patterns and or user trails as the site to be advertised whether visited before or after the site to be advertised along a trail may be considered proximate the site to be advertised.

Additionally advertising broker may also be configured to place advertising content for the particular network site on the proximate network sites according to some embodiments. For example in one embodiment admin system may communicate with advertising broker system and request that an advertisement for a particular network site S be placed on a network site near site S. In response as described above advertising broker may determine that sites S and S are both near site S along one or more user trails and may place an advertisement for site S on sites S and S.

A user s selection or activation of a reference to a destination content source and consequent presentation of the destination content source to the user in response to the selection may be referred to as user navigation to the destination content source. Similarly the user s act of selecting or activating the reference may be referred to as traversal of the reference. If a navigable reference directly relates two content sources a navigation path may be said to exist between the related content sources. A sequence of paths in which the destination of one path functions as the origin of another path may be referred to as a navigational pattern or user trail. A collection of content sources e.g. web pages or other network sites may present a variety of navigation paths and user trails along which a user navigates from one content source to another. For example a first content source may link to a second which in turn links to a third and so forth. These relationships among content sources may be represented as a network or graph of which one embodiment is illustrated in .

In the illustrated embodiment navigational pattern information is shown to include a number of content sources e.g. web pages or network sites . Network sites may encompass for example any of the various types or configurations of content sources discussed previously. Paths relating different network sites are shown as directional arrows between the related sources. Thus for example paths exist between network sites and network sites . By contrast no direct path exists between network sites and network sites although a user might navigate between these content sources via network sites . In some instances where one path exists from a first site to a second e.g. a destination site another path or paths may also exist that lead from the second network site back to the first network site either directly or via some other content source . Consequently it is possible that cycles may exist within navigational pattern information although for simplicity of exposition these are not shown in the illustrated embodiment.

It is noted that navigational pattern information may represent relationships between network sites at the level of content navigation. The paths shown in navigational pattern information may or may not correspond to communication network relationships among systems that may be configured to host network sites . For example two network sites may be adjacent in navigational pattern information if a user navigates from one to the other. However the systems hosting the adjacent network sites such as hosts may in fact be quite distant in terms of geography or communication network topology. Conversely systems that are close in terms of geography or communication network topology may be distant in terms of the navigation path topology of navigational pattern information . Thus in some embodiments the navigation path topology represented by navigational pattern information may differ or diverge from the topology of the underlying communication software and or hardware entities through which network sites may be implemented.

It is further noted that in some embodiments the relationships represented within navigational pattern information need not be constrained to explicit navigation links e.g. HTML links encoded within content sources. That is as described previously a reference between two network sites may be generated on the basis of user navigation patterns that may not involve the traversal of explicit links. In some instances a reference may be generated indirectly or obliquely by virtue of using search terms or search engine results through which another content source may be selected. Additionally in some embodiments a user may navigate from one network site to another network site by specifying a URI such as by typing the URI into a web browser entry screen. Generally speaking the relationships represented within navigational pattern information may reflect any of the various ways in which users may navigate among network sites irrespective of whether explicit navigation links are employed. Correspondingly in some embodiments the topology of navigation path relationships represented by navigational pattern information may differ from the topology of explicit navigation links included within network sites themselves in addition to differing from the topology of lower levels of resource implementation.

In some embodiments the user trails indicated by navigational pattern information may be identified through an analysis of user requests for content. For example as described above content access requests including referral information may be reported to traffic pattern analysis system . Such requests may arise in a number of ways such as a user selecting a link explicitly represented in another network site entering a URI directly into a browser window or in any other suitable fashion. If the reported content access request targets a valid content source it may be indicative of a navigational path or user trail from the referring network site to the requested network site . Correspondingly records of reported content access requests may be analyzed to identify such paths or trails and to construct a corresponding representation of navigational pattern information . Such a usage driven representation of navigational pattern information may not represent every possible navigation path that exists among network sites . Rather it may represent only those paths for which an actual traversal by a user has been reported.

As mentioned above numerous navigational paths or user trails may exist within navigational pattern information . However different paths may vary sometimes substantially with respect to various measures of path usage. In some embodiments a representation of navigational pattern information may include indications of weights along the paths between network sites where the weights may reflect any suitable measure of usage or activity of the corresponding path. For example paths between certain network sites may be traversed by a high volume of different users relative to paths between other network sites . In one embodiment a measure of navigation volume of a path such as a number of path traversals per unit of time may be assigned as a weight of that path. Alternatively some paths through navigational pattern information may exhibit a substantial rate of change relative to other paths. Correspondingly in one embodiment a time rate of change of the number of traversals of a given path may be assigned as a weight of that path.

For a given network site path weight information may be used in generating advertising or keyword recommendations from the set of network sites near the given network site . For example path weights may be used to rank the paths from network site in decreasing order such that network site ranks highest followed by network sites and . Thus when determining keywords to associate with network site those keywords associated with may be suggested prior to given more weight than or be priced higher than keywords associated with network sites or . As noted above network sites may be proximate a particular network sites regardless of whether users navigate from the other network sites to the particular network site or from the particular network site to the other network sites. Thus network site may be considered near network sites and according to one embodiment. Therefore in one embodiment path weights may be used to rank the paths from network site in decreasing order such that network site ranks highest followed by network sites and . Thus when determining keywords to associate with network site keywords associated with network site may be suggested before or may be priced higher than keywords associated with network sites or

As noted above the placement of advertising content may also be determined based on navigational paths or user trails. Thus in some embodiments an advertisement for network site may be placed on one or more of the network sites near set such as network sites and or . Please note that for ease of discussion the above examples indicate only network sites that are directly adjacent to a particular network site as near that network site. In other words in the above example a network site is proximate another network site if navigational pattern or user trail information indicates that users navigate from one of the network sites to the other network site. In other embodiments however other metrics or relationships between network sites may be utilized to determine a network site s proximity to another site. For example network sites within a specified number of links within navigational pattern information may be considered near each other. For example in one embodiment network sites that are within two link or hops may be considered near each other. Thus in such an example sites and may all be considered near network site since they are all within two hops of network site

Additionally as described above other metrics or techniques other than the number of hops between network sites indicated by navigational pattern information may used to determine whether two network sites are proximate each other. For example in one embodiment if two network sites are access by one or more users within a specified period of time the two sites may be considered near each other. Similarly user quality the presence of anchor links the location of links and other criteria may be used to determine a level of proximity between two sites.

As illustrated by block an advertising broker system may be configured to determine one or more proximate network sites within a given proximity of a particular network site on one or more network navigational paths. For example in one embodiment an advertising broker system may be configured to obtain traffic pattern information indicating sites within a given proximity to a particular network site where the traffic pattern information indicates that a user navigated to from each of the proximate network sites from to the particular network site. As described above navigational patterns or user trails may indicate that certain network sites are within a given proximity of other network sites according to user navigational paths. In one embodiment an advertising broker system may be configured to receive a request for suggested keywords for a particular network site and may in response communicate with a traffic pattern analysis system to obtain traffic pattern information indicating one or more network sites near the particular network site. In other embodiments however advertising broker system may be configured to collect and analyze network traffic pattern information itself to determine proximate network sites.

As described above various criteria may be used to determine if one network site is within a given proximity of another according to different embodiments. For example in one embodiment one network site may be considered proximate i.e. within a given proximity of a particular network site if a number of users access both sites within a specified amount of time. The time limit used to determine whether one site is within a given proximity of another may vary from embodiment to embodiment. For instance two sites may be considered proximate each other if they are accessed within a certain number of seconds or minutes in one embodiment. While in another embodiment two sites may be considered proximate if they are both accessed within a number of hours or days. In other embodiments the number of links or hops along a navigational path or trail between the two sites or alternatively the average number of hops along several paths may be used to determine whether they are within a given proximity. In yet other embodiments the number of users visiting both sites possibly with a specified amount of time or using only a specified number of hops may be used to determine the proximity of two sits.

A number of sites may also be ranked according to how proximate they are to a particular network site. In general any criteria used to determine whether two sites are within a given proximity may also be used to rank vary sites according to how near or proximate they are to a particular network site.

Additionally the quality of the users visiting the network sites may be used both to determine whether one network site is within a given proximity of another site and or to rank the relative proximity of various network sites. For instance user profile information or characteristics of other sites visited by those users may be used to determiner or rank the quality of users visiting network sites. In one embodiment a network site may be considered proximate a particular network site if the quality of users that visit the particular network site from the other site meet a certain criteria. For example if the users also visited a number of sites related to luxury items or if they recently made a number of purchases those users may be ranked higher in quality than other users. Thus the quality of users that visit a particular site via certain network paths or that also visit other proximate sites may be used at least in part to determine the proximity of sites as well as the cost of keywords and or placing advertising content.

In some embodiments a publisher of the particular network site may obtain the network traffic pattern information indicating the proximate network sites such as by using admin system to request the information from either advertising broker system or traffic pattern analysis system .

As indicated by block advertising broker may also be configured to determine one or more keywords associated with the proximate network sites. For example the content of the proximate network sites may be obtained and analyzed to determine one or more keywords. In another embodiment the keywords may be determined from metadata associated with the proximate network sites. In other embodiments keywords may also be determined in other ways such as by determining one or more search engine query terms associated with the proximate network sites. In general any method of determining keywords associated with the proximate network sites may be utilized according to various embodiments.

Additionally advertising broker may be configured to associate at least one of the keywords with the particular network site as illustrated by block . For instance the keywords may be included in metadata for the particular network site in one embodiment. In another embodiment the keywords may be associated with the particular network site by a search engine such that when one of the keywords is used as a query term in a search engine query the particular network site is included in the results of the query. In some embodiments the publisher of the particular network site or other controlling party or entity may bid or pay for to have the keywords associated with the particular network site such as to have a network site included in a search query result.

As noted above in some embodiments admin system may be configured to perform the functions described above regarding . For example rather than relying upon advertising broker system admin system may be configured to request proximate network sites from traffic pattern analysis system . In one embodiment admin system may then communicate information identifying the proximate network sites to advertising broker requesting suggestion of keywords to associate with the particular network site. In another embodiment however admin system may also be configured to determine keywords associated with the proximate network sites itself rather than requesting advertising broker to suggest keywords.

For example keywords associated with network site and keywords associated with site may be suggested for association with network site such according to the method described above regarding . Similarly keywords associated with site may be suggested for association with either site or site or both. In some embodiments only keywords associated with a network site from which users navigate to a particular network site may be suggested for association with the particular network site. For instance as indicated by the arrows between site and the traffic pattern information may indicate that users navigate from site to site but do not navigate from site to site . Thus in one embodiment keywords may be suggested for association with site but keywords may not be suggested for site . Similarly keywords and keywords may be suggested for site and keywords and may be suggested for site .

In other embodiments any network site within two hops in any direction of a particular network site may be considered proximate the particular network site. Thus in some embodiments any of the keywords associated with any of sites and may be suggested for any of the other network sites.

As described above regarding various criteria may be used to determine if one network site is within a given proximity of another according to different embodiments. In general any of the criteria described above regarding determining whether a network site is within a given proximity of another site or for ranking the relative proximity of sites may be also be used when bidding on or associating advertising content with network site.

As indicated by block a publisher for the particular network site may bid for associating advertising content with the proximate network sites determined at block . For example advertising broker may be configured to sell advertising space on the proximate network sites and the publisher of the particular network site may take part in an auction to place advertising content on the proximate network site. As will be discussed in more detail below the price that a publisher may be willing to pay or bid for placing advertising content may be based at least in part on various information determined from user trails. For example advertising content placed on network sites that are nearer to the advertised network site as determine by any of various criteria may be more expensive than advertising content placed on network sites that are further away from the advertised network site. Similarly advertising content placed on network sites from which more traffic navigates to the advertised network site whether directly or indirectly may be more expensive than less network sites with less volume of traffic navigating to the advertised network sites.

Advertising broker may also be configured to associate advertising content regarding the particular network site on at least one of the proximate network sites as indicated by block . Thus ads for a network site may be placed on frequently used user trails to the advertised network site. Advertisements or advertising content may be placed on network site in any number of manners according to different embodiments. For example in one embodiment a banner add may be placed in the content of a proximate network site. In another embodiment a descriptive link to the advertised network site maybe placed on or may be associated with a proximate network site. In yet another embodiment an advertisement for the advertised web site may be placed in a side bar of a web page that displays search results including the proximate site. For example if navigational path information indicates that a large number of users navigate from a network site regarding a boat rental service to a network site regarding a fishing guide service an advertisement for the fishing guide service site may be placed on the boat rental service site or on a search engine results page that includes the fishing guide service site according to different embodiments.

In some embodiments however advertisements may also be placed on sites to which users navigate from the network site to be advertised as described above. For instance advertising content for site may be placed on site and advertisement for site may be placed on site . In general advertising content for a particular network site may be placed on network sites that are proximate and on the same user trails as the particular network site.

As noted above the cost of advertising may be based as at least in part on information regarding user trails. For example advertising content placed on network sites that are more proximate or nearer the advertised network site may be more expensive than advertising content placed on network sites that are less proximate or further from or less proximate the advertised network site. Similarly it may be more expensive to place advertising content on a proximate network site from which a large number of users navigate to the advertised network site. is a flowchart illustrating one embodiment of a method for determining advertising pricing. In order to determine pricing for advertising the network site proximate a particular network site may be ranked according any of various measures related to navigational path information. For instance as illustrated by block proximate network sites may be ranked according to the amount of user traffic that navigates to a particular network site from each proximate network site. Thus referring back to if more users navigate from site to than from to site may be ranked higher than site

In other embodiments proximate network sites may be ranked by other user trail related criteria such as the number of hops between two sites or the amount of time between a user accessing two sites among other criteria. Still referring back to for example when ranking sites proximate network site sites and may be ranked higher than site . In some embodiments sites from which users navigate to a particular site may be ranked higher than sites to which users navigate from the particular site. For example when ranking sites proximate site site may be ranked higher than sites or according to one embodiment. In other embodiments the reverse may be true and sites and may be ranked higher than site . Thus as indicated by block advertising pricing for placing advertising content on one of the proximate network sites may be determined according to the ranking of each proximate site. For example when determining pricing for placing advertisements for site placing an advertisement on site may be more expensive than placing an advertisement on site

While described above mainly in reference to placing advertising on a network site the method of also applies to the use of suggested keywords. For example when associating a keyword with network site for the purposed of including site in the results of a search query that includes that keyword associating keywords from site with site may be more expensive than associating keywords from site . Similarly when bidding to have site displayed higher in a list of search results the publisher of site may be willing to bid more for to have site associated with keyword from site than for keywords from site

Please note that in some embodiments the determination of a bid price and the placing of a bid for associating a network site may be performed automatically or semi automatically by an application or computer system such as admin system . For example admin system may be configured to take part in an auction for associating keyword with a network site such as site . Admin system may also include a user interface allowing a person such as a publisher of a network site to control the bidding. Admin system may be configured to determine keywords associated with network sites proximate site on various user trails or other navigational paths and to rank the proximate network sites according to any of various navigational path characteristic. For instance in some embodiments admin system may be configured to rank the proximate network sites according to how near they are to site as in the example above. Thus admin system may automatically determine how much to bid for such keywords based on the ranking of the proximate network sites. For instance admin system may be configured to automatically bid relatively higher for keywords associated with a network site that is nearer to site . In other embodiments admin system may be configured to rank and determine pricing according to other user trail criteria. For example admin system may be configured to bid more for keywords associated with network sites from which users navigate to site than for keywords associated with network sites to which users navigate from site

In some embodiments admin system may include a user interface allowing the user to specify aspects of the bidding process such as a maximum bid or to confirm the final bid price before the bid is actually placed. Thus while admin system may determine a bid value or advertising cost a user may in some embodiments be able to control some or all aspects of the process. Additionally an application such may be executing on admin system may also be configured to charge the determined advertising cost either as part of a completed auction or as part of a non auction sale or lease for associating advertising content such as placing an advertisement or link on a network site.

Similarly admin system may be configured to automatically bid for placing advertising content on proximate network sites. Thus according to some embodiments advertising pricing may be determined at least in part on user trail and or navigational path criteria.

In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface . In some embodiments computer system may be illustrative of advertising broker system traffic pattern analysis system and or admin system while in other embodiments systems and may include elements in addition to computer system .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processors capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM non volatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those methods and techniques described above for system system and or system are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems for example. In particular network interface may be configured to allow communication between computer system and other computer system described above. Network interface may commonly support one or more wireless networking protocols e.g. Wi Fi IEEE 802.11 or another wireless networking standard . However in various embodiments network interface may support communication via any suitable wired or wireless general data networks such as other types of Ethernet networks for example. Additionally network interface may support communication via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer readable storage medium. Generally speaking a computer readable storage medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc.

The various methods as illustrated in the figures and described herein represent exemplary embodiments of methods. The methods may be implemented manually in software in hardware or in a combination thereof. The order of any method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc.

Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. It is intended that the invention embrace all such modifications and changes and accordingly the above description to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

