---

title: Systems and methods for scheduling call center agents using quality data and correlation-based discovery
abstract: Systems and methods for scheduling call center agents are provided. An exemplary system for scheduling call center agents includes an agent computing device that is capable of obtaining quality scores of agents. The quality score is a measurement of quality that the agents provide to a call center. The Agent computing device is capable of transmitting the quality scores of agents over a network. The system further includes a manager computing device that is capable of: receiving the quality scores of agents over the network, receiving a scheduled interval, receiving a quality goal for the scheduled interval, the quality goal being a desired measurement of quality that the agents collectively provide to the call center, determining a quality goal for the scheduled interval based on the received quality scores of agents, and determining a schedule for the agents based on the quality goal, the quality goal score, and the scheduled interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07864946&OS=07864946&RS=07864946
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 07864946
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060222
---
The present invention is generally related to scheduling employees of a company and more particularly is related to systems and methods for scheduling call center agents.

Existing forecasting and scheduling solutions allow call center managers to forecast workload and schedule the right number of skilled agents at the right times to meet their service goals. However existing solutions do not factor quality of performance in determining a schedule. Therefore call center supervisors have had to use inefficient manual processes including manual scheduling of agents to ensure that customers receive the desired service quality.

In addition call centers have access to data about the quality of calls that are serviced. This data is collected based on a sophisticated set of voice recordings forms filled out by supervisors and other means for automatically and semi automatically evaluating how well a call customer was serviced. This data is kept as call details e.g. time of day date type of call customer information etc. and as agent details e.g. name of agent skills experience etc. . In addition call centers can also have access to details regarding the actual schedule of agent operations e.g. days dates that agents worked including their work shifts and break times agent skills and the actual record of call statistics overall e.g. call service levels achieved queue sizes abandonment rates all for various times of days days of weeks specific dates etc. .

Systems and methods for scheduling call center agents are provided. Briefly described one embodiment of such a system among others comprises an agent computing device that is capable of obtaining quality scores of agents and transmitting the quality scores of agents over a network. The quality score is a measurement of manager computing device that is capable of receiving the quality scores of agents over the network receiving a scheduled interval and receiving a quality goal for the scheduled interval. The quality goal is a desired measurement of quality that the agents collectively provide to the call center. The manager computing device is further capable of determining a quality goal score for the scheduled interval based on the received quality scores of agents and determining a schedule for the agents based on the quality goal the quality goal score and the scheduled interval.

An embodiment of a method among others can be broadly summarized as comprising the steps of obtaining quality scores of agents defining a scheduled interval defining a quality goal for the scheduled interval determining a quality goal score for the scheduled interval based on the quality scores of the agents and determining a schedule for the agents based on the quality goal the quality goal score and the scheduled interval.

Embodiments of the present invention can also be viewed as providing methods for optimizing call center performance. In this regard one embodiment of such a method among others can be broadly summarized as comprising the steps of obtaining quality performance of agents data that includes information on the quality of service and quality characteristics of the agent obtaining call center operations data that includes information on statistics and details of a call center correlating the quality performance of agents data and the call center operations data identifying correlation based discovery and optimizing call center performance based on the correlation based discovery.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods that involve the scheduling of call center agents. In particular the scheduling of agents can be achieved using a quality goal for a scheduled interval. In some embodiments a schedule can be generated using statistical correlation of historical data associated with a call center and the agents. In this regard correlation based discovery or patterns can be analyzed to help supervisors improve the quality of service provided by the agents. For example the supervisors may be interested in how quality of service poor versus good quality of service may be correlated with other contact center statistics. These statistics can include agent skill group schedule information time of day date etc. and queue load information for example.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems have been described examples of display diagrams and operations of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which the scheduling of the call center agents and the correlation of historical data can be achieved.

Referring now in more detail to the figures is a schematic view of an embodiment of a system in which customers can communicate to call center agents of a company. As indicated in this figure the system comprises one or more customer premises a network e.g. PSTN and or cellular and a company premises which includes a call center . Call center includes an agent manager system having agent computing devices and that communicate with a manager computing device via a network e.g. local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or virtual private network VPN . The agent and manager computing devices can for instance comprise desktop computers PCs or Macintosh computers that can be connected to communication devices such as headsets microphones and headphones among others. The agent and manager computing devices are further described in relation to . The customer premises include for example telephones cellular phones and any other communication devices that communicate to the call center via the network .

The one or more user interface devices comprise elements with which the user e.g agent can interact with the agent computing device . Where the agent computing device comprises a personal computer e.g. desktop or laptop computer or similar device these components can comprise those typically used in conjunction with a PC such as a keyboard and mouse.

The one or more I O devices comprise components used to facilitate connection of the agent computing device to other devices and therefore for instance comprise one or more serial parallel small computer system interface SCSI universal serial bus USB or IEEE 1394 e.g. Firewire connection elements. The networking devices comprise the various components used to transmit and or receive data over the network where provided. By way of example the networking devices include a device that can communicate both inputs and outputs for instance a modular demodular e.g. modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge and a router as well as a network card etc.

Memory comprises various programs in software and or firmware including an operating system O S and an agent scheduling application . The O S controls the execution of programs including the agent scheduling application and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management communication control and related services. The agent scheduling application facilitates the process for transmitting quality scores of agents. Typically the process involves receiving evaluations corresponding to the agents and transmitting the evaluations via the network and receiving the schedule of the agents based on configured quality goals and calculated correlation based discovery. Operation of the agent scheduling application is described in relation to and .

The architecture for the manager computing device is similar to the architecture of the agent computing device described above. That is the manager computing device includes a processing device one or more user interface devices one or more I O devices and one or more networking devices each of which is connected to a local interface . The user interface device is connected to a display device which includes a display diagram . Examples of the display diagrams are further described in .

The memory includes agent performance database quality performance database call center operations database quality score database manager scheduling application and performance correlation application . Typically the agent schedule database includes but is not limited to information on shift details and shift related information of the agents the quality performance database includes but is not limited to information on the quality of service and quality characteristics of the agent the call center operation database includes but is not limited to information on statistics and details of a call center and the quality score database includes but is not limited to the quality scores of the agents.

The performance correlation application provides statistical correlation of historical data associated with a call center and the agents. Correlation based discovery or patterns is then analyzed to help supervisors improve the quality of service provided by the agents. Operation of the performance correlation application is described in relation to and . The manager scheduling application provides a schedule for the call center agents based on configured quality goals calculated quality scores of the agents and calculated correlation based discovery. Operation of the manager scheduling application is described in relation to A B and .

By selecting option Quality Score Calculator display diagram entitled Configure Quality Score Calculator is displayed. This diagram is used for configuring the calculation of quality scores of the agents. The Quality Score Calculator display diagram includes a Look Back Days option and Quality Score Calculation Mode option . The look back days option enables the user to calculate quality scores of the agents in the past days for example for the past seven days. In other embodiments the quality score can be calculated over past hours weeks a specific queue of the day a specific day of the week holidays and events for example.

In this example each agent is evaluated on a daily basis based on evaluations and is given a quality score for each day. The quality score is stored in the quality score database of the manager computing device . The agent could also be evaluated on different types of work or evaluated on one type of work performed in multiple intervals. Hence an agent can receive a single quality score for one type of work or multiple quality scores for different types of work. For example an agent might provide high quality when interacting during English language calls but low quality when interacting during Spanish language calls.

The quality score calculation mode enables the user to configure a mode of calculating the quality scores of the agents for the number of days entered in the look back days option . For example the mode of calculation can be the average score of the agents during the previous 7 day interval. Other modes of calculation include but are not limited to medium score lowest score and highest score for example.

In service goal section a Make Goal Constant option enables the supervisor to set the same goal for the specified intervals being scheduled. A service level option enables the supervisor to configure a level of service that the agents should be providing during the specified intervals. For example the supervisor can specify that the agents should answer 80 option of the incoming calls within 30 seconds option or that each agent should answer a call on average option within for example two seconds of an incoming call option .

A quality goal section enables a user to schedule for example 2 agents option or a percentage of the agents option having at least a quality score of 80 option during the past working 7 day period. As mentioned above the quality score is calculated based on evaluations of performance given to each agent. In this example the quality score indicates the quality of service that the agents have demonstrated during the past 7 day period. The display diagram further includes action features such as Ok Cancel Apply and Help .

After the supervisor completes configuring the parameters used in calculating a schedule the user can select the Ok button of the action features to start calculating the schedule for the agents. The operation of scheduling agents based on quality data and correlation base discovery is further described in relation to A B and .

The Gantt chart provides various activities for each employee which can be color coded. For example employee 10 should come into work at 5 30 am and begin answering calls get a break from 8 00 8 30 am answer calls from 8 30 10 30 am and should attend a manager meeting from 10 30 11 00 am. There is no intention to limit the invention to this particular type of activity. Other types of activities may include training and installation of an application for example. The staffing with quality section provides a total number of agents staffed for a 15 minute interval who are meeting their quality goal. Exclamation marks next to the employees 10 and 7 indicate that they have not met their quality goal. The supervisor can click on an exclamation mark for more information.

The general issues folder can include for example problem indicating that only three agents are scheduled on Jul. 4 2005 at 7 30 am but that a corresponding minimum quality agents constraint requires 4 agents. Additionally problem indicates that only two agents are scheduled on Jul. 5 2005 at 7 00 am but the minimum quality agents constraint requires 4 agents problem indicates that only one agent is scheduled on Jul. 7 2005 at 4 45 pm but the minimum quality agents constraint requires 2 agents and problem indicates that no agents are scheduled to work between Jul. 10 2005 at 3 00 am and Jul. 11 2005 at 5 00 am.

The visualization issues folder can include for example discovery or pattern that indicates employees 9 and 10 repeatedly perform poorly half an hour before and after lunch pattern that indicates employee 1 repeatedly performs poorly from 5 00 am to 9 00 am on the 4of July and performs very well afterwards and pattern that indicates employee 7 repeatedly performs poorly from 5 00 am to 7 30 am in the mornings. Patterns can affect the calculated schedule. By providing such patterns the supervisor can manually change the calculated schedule to improve the performance of the agents. Additionally or alternatively a schedule can be automatically or semi automatically calculated using such patterns.

In block the agent manager system determines quality scores of the agents based on the past working interval. In block an interval is defined for another schedule and in block a quality goal can be defined for the call center performance. It should be noted that a quality goal can be defined for agents based on the correlation based discovery calculated by the performance correlation application . For example to assist a supervisor in defining a quality goal and or a service goal of the call center during the Christmas season the supervisor may access historical patterns on the performance of the call center during the last two Christmas seasons. The performance during the last two Christmas seasons may influence the supervisor as the levels of quality goal and service goal are configured.

In block the quality goal score for each schedule of the agents is calculated based on the quality scores of the agents. In block the schedule is calculated based on the defined quality goal the calculated quality goal score and the correlation based discovery. As mentioned above the supervisor can manually change the calculated schedule to improve the performance of the agents based on the correlation base discovery. Additionally or alternatively a schedule can be automatically or semi automatically calculated using the correlation base discovery that relates to the performance of the agents and the scheduled interval. In block the flow diagram returns to block where the schedule is executed.

The parameters obtained from the databases are inputted into the performance correlation application which identifies patterns or correlation based discovery that show why and or when certain poor performance occurs repeatedly and correlated with exogenous events such as high AHT or long queue times. The identified patterns are communicated to the I O interface such as display device shown in or to a manager scheduling application such as shown in . The operation of the performance correlation application involves visualization of contact center performance by way of pre computed correlations between contact center agent schedule and agent performance parameters. The performance correlation application can provide n way correlations between poor good quality of agent measurements and other call center details. Thus the performance correlation application can provide a statistical examination of time indexed data to find correlations between quality of agents measured historically and other call center details.

In block the filtered data represents two axes of information for example call quality and some second axis X . This two axis data is inputted into a Pearson r linear correlation formula which computes the value of r known as the correlation coefficient. The correlation coefficient ranges from 1 perfect negative correlation to 0 no correlation to 1 perfect positive correlation . In addition statistical significance p e.g. p

In some embodiments the operation of the correlation performance application can be described as a method for taking an exemplary quality of service measurement of a specific call or interval and mining the exemplar to indicate other call episodes that are statistically correlated in terms of quality of service and in terms of one or more of the set X details with the exemplar. For example a manager discovers a poor call of Joe s on Wednesday afternoon and requests a correlation between Joe s poor calls across a range of days. Based on the results of the correlation the manager finds a list of poor calls by Joe on Wednesdays. The list indicates to the manager that Joe does poorly on Wednesdays consistently.

Another correlation computational method is clustering which takes all evaluated and unevaluated calls and clusters them or partitions them into sets based on one or more parameters that are statistically correlated with quality of service. A manager can visualize each cluster for the user and preferably annotate which calls are evaluated and which are unevaluated. Yet another correlation computational method is statistical trend analysis which looks for temporal trends in correlated sets of calls to show that quality of service is increasing or decreasing statistically significantly over time.

In block the manager scheduling application determines a quality goal score for the defined interval based on the determined quality scores of the agent. In block correlation based discovery from the performance correlation application can be displayed so that a user can view and manually change the schedule based on the correlation based discovery. In an alternative embodiment the correlation based discovery is inputted into the manager scheduling application to assist in determining the schedule. One or more schedules are determined for scheduling the agents as indicated in block based on the quality goal score of the schedules the received quality goal for the scheduled interval and the correlation based discovery. In block the one or more schedules are displayed for the manager on a display device . In block the one or more schedules are transmitted to the agent computing device over the network.

There are two types of quality goals that are handled differently by the manager scheduling application. The first type of quality goals can be referred to as minimum agents with quality. This type of goal specifies that at least X agents are present in every interval with a quality score of at least Y. The second type of quality goal can be referred to as percent agents with quality. This type of goal specified that at least X percent of the scheduled agents in every interval have a quality score of at least Y.

In the scheduled interval staffing can be computed for every potential schedule by summing the total number of agents skilled and scheduled to be working on a particular queue in that interval. If the agents are skilled to work on multiple queues in the scheduled interval the agents should be counted as a full agent towards the staffing number on each queue. For example five agents are skilled and scheduled to work on the customer service queue for the interval of 8 00 am 8 15 am. Seven agents are skilled and scheduled to work on the sales queue. Three agents are skilled and scheduled to work on both the queues. This should result in a total of eight agents and ten agents qualified to be working on the customer service queue and sales queue respectively.

Next quality staffing can be computed for the scheduled interval via a similar method. The quality staffing is the total number of agents skilled and scheduled to be working on a particular queue in that interval who have a quality score that is greater than the quality score of at least Y specified in the goal. If the agents are skilled to work on multiple queues in an interval the agents should be counted as a full agent towards the staffing number on each queue where they meet the quality goal. For example one of the five agents skilled to work the customer service queue has a quality score of at least 75. Two of the seven agents skilled to work on the sales queue have a quality score of at least 85. Of the three agents skilled to work both queues one meets the quality score for customer service and one meets the quality score from sales. This should result in a total of two agents and three agents qualified to be worked on the customer service queue and sales queue respectively.

Alternatively a manager may care about a portion of time that agents actually spend on the queue instead of just the number of agents skilled to work that queue. In that case the staffing and quality staffing can be computed differently. The staffing can be determined as the equivalent amount of dedicated agents needed to provide the same service level as the current collection of multi skilled agents on the queue. The quality staffing can be determined as the sum of the contributions to the queue for each of the agents skilled to work that queue.

The Required Agents Relaxation Algorithm computes the required agents with quality for the scheduled interval. In the case of the minimum agents goal this calculation simply returns the at least X agents specified in the quality goal. For example the quality goal for the customer service queue specifies at least three agents with a quality score of 75. Therefore the required agents should be three for the scheduled interval.

The quality goal Score Formula uses the required quality staffing value and the quality staffing value for each interval to compute the quality goal score that reflects how closely this potential schedule meets the quality goal. If the quality staffing is greater than or equal to the required quality staffing clearly the goal is met. If the quality staffing is less than the required quality staffing there is deviation from the goal.

In the case of the Percent Agents goal the algorithm can be more complex such as by using the concept of relaxation and multiple passes to avoid over constraining the search. Relaxation is a heuristic search technique that employs solving a simplified version of a problem as an intermediate step to solving the complete problem. In this case early in the search the quality goal is relaxed so the Required Agents Relaxation Algorithm returns 0. This allows the Search Engine to explore schedules that staff the call center optimally and meet service goals without restricting the Search Engine to evaluating only schedules that meet the quality goal.

Then at the beginning of a later pass the Search Engine sets the Required Agents Relaxation Algorithm to compute the required staffing . At this point the algorithm computes the required quality staffing to meet the quality goal and cache it. The Search Engine then instructs the Algorithm to disable relaxation so the cached value should be returned instead of 0. The Search Engine should also set to re compute the required staffing before each subsequent pass. For example if there are ten staffing and three quality staffing are scheduled to work on the sales queue for the interval of 8 00 AM 8 15 AM then the Agents Relaxation Algorithm calculates zero required quality staffing . If the quality goal is twenty percent 20 of staffing then the required quality staffing is two which is 20 of ten staffing . Once the required agents are computed for the percent agents goal the values are used by the Quality Goal Score Formula just as in the minimum agents goal method that is stated above.

Finally the application displays status messages displaying when the goal is met and is not met and displays the staffing for each 15 minute interval that meets the quality goal. This allows the users to validate that their goals are being met by the created schedule.

It should be noted that in the foregoing description any process descriptions or blocks in flow charts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the preferred embodiment of the present invention in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those reasonably skilled in the art of the present invention.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments of the invention without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and the present invention and protected by the following claims.

