---

title: Systems and methods for providing dynamic integration and access to disparate data sources
abstract: Systems and methods for providing dynamic integration and access to disparate data sources are described. The apparatus may include an internal data source access engine, an external data source access engine, an integration engine and a user interface module. The method may comprise receiving a request for bill-pay services from a user, first retrieving internal bill-pay information, second retrieving external bill-pay information, integrating the first retrieved and second retrieved information into a single unified graphical presentation, presenting the unified graphical presentation to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07774251&OS=07774251&RS=07774251
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 07774251
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060811
---
This disclosure is related to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 464 159 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING DYNAMIC INTEGRATION AND ACCESS TO DISPARATE DATA SOURCES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 464 170 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING DYNAMIC INTEGRATION AND ACCESS TO DISPARATE DATA SOURCES filed on an even date herewith.

This application relates to systems and methods for data integration and access and more particularly to dynamically integrating and providing access to disparate data sources.

Customers demand more of the products and services they use than ever before. They insist that the companies they deal with on a regular basis provide them greater and greater levels of information and access. These companies are configuring and operating more and more complex systems that are capable of delivering highly integrated services to those customers.

However those same companies face a dilemma when their customers use the products of many other companies concurrent with their own. Inter company cooperation and data sharing though at opposition with that company s desire to ever increase the number of products a particular customer uses with them has become commonplace. But a better manner of providing those customers access to those competing companies but still maintains a relationship between the customer and the company providing that access is needed.

In an embodiment an apparatus to unify disparate data sources into a single user interface is described. The apparatus comprises an internal data source access engine having a plurality of internal data source software objects an external data source access engine having at least one external data source software object an integration engine to receive information from both the internal and external data source access engines and to combine the information into a single unified data set and a user interface module to graphically format the unified data set. In an embodiment the external data source software objects are configured to provide access to data maintained by a system external to the apparatus.

In an embodiment a method of unifying disparate data sources is described. The method comprises receiving a request from a user for access to bill pay services first retrieving internal bill pay information second retrieving external bill pay information integrating the first received and second received information in a unified graphical presentation and presenting the unified graphical presentation to the user. The external bill pay information is retrieved using an external data source software object configured to access and an external data source using a pre defined interface configuration.

In an embodiment a system for providing unified graphical presentation of disparate data sources is described. The system comprises a user access system providing one or more users access to present account data a bill pay engine configured to integrate data retrieved from both internal and external data sources through a software object and to present the integrated data as a single unified data set to one of the one or more users and a plurality of internal data stores. The bill pay engine further comprises an internal data source access engine to access the plurality of internal data stores through an internal data source software object an external data source access engine to access data maintained by an external data system through an external data source software object.

In the following detailed description of example embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the example method apparatus and system may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of this description.

The term disparate as used herein is meant to denote systems that are maintained by separate providers. In the present discussion distinction is made between systems maintained internally by a provider and systems maintained external to the provider. Disparate is used to denote that difference.

The request for bill pay services may be received through any suitable means such as interaction with a web browser that is communication with a bill pay server. The actual mechanism of connection is outside the scope of the present discussion. The request is processed by a bill pay engine which then provides the customer access and information. Information may include without limitation amount of funds available for payment amount due for one or more pending bills remaining balance on one or more credit card devices and the like in one example. In such an example the bill pay engine interfaces with accounts that are maintained by the same entity that operates the bill pay engine . For instance the customer may have a checking account a credit card and an auto loan with a bank. The bank provides the customer bill pay services through which the customer can access accounts that are maintained by the bank but provides no access to other accounts of the customer. The customer in an alternate example would subscribe to a service which would provide bill pay services to the customer s other financial accounts. The bank may negotiate a discount for the service or assist in signing the customer up for the service but the customer would be required to login to the bank s bill pay services separately from the service.

The internal data source access engine is configured to access a plurality of internal systems . Each of the internal systems is computer system that maintains account information for an account offered by the operator of the bill pay engine . The internal systems each additionally provide financial services to the customer. This may include one or more of the following without limitation depositing of funds withdrawal of funds and monetary satisfaction of present purchases where the customer pays back the amount of the present purchase over time credit card services . Any system that has the ability to electronically receive or send funds is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion. Each of the internal systems is accessed through an internal data source software object not shown in . The internal data source software object is configured to translate instructions received from the integration engine into instructions executable by at least one of the internal systems . In one embodiment the internal data source software object is a J2EE software object. In an alternate embodiment the internal data source software object is a web services software object. Through such a mechanism the integration engine issuing instructions for account access need only know a simple set of rules that can be standardized across all of the internal data source software objects and does not need to be reprogrammed every time a new system is put in place internally.

The external data source access engine is configured to access one or more external systems . Each of the one or more external systems is a computer system that maintains financial information or financial accounts of the customer that is not maintained by the operator of the bill pay engine . Typically the operator of the bill pay engine contracts with the operator of the external system the contract providing the services of the external system to the customers of the operator of the bill pay engine. Those services allow the customer to attend to financial obligations apart from the financial obligations they have to the operator of the bill pay engine . Through this mechanism the customer may click through the interface providing bill pay services to internal systems to the external systems requiring the customer to separately attend to financial obligations with the operator of the bill pay engine and others. However using the systems and methods described herein and the integration engine the user can be presented with a single user interface that provides them access to all of the bill pay services they are entitled to. The external data source access engine accesses the one or more external systems through an external data source software object in one example. In one embodiment the external data source software object is a web services software object and is configured to provide access to the one or more external systems using the web services protocol. Further discussion of the external data source software objects is provided below with respect to .

The user access system is communicatively coupled to the bill pay engine and is configured to send machine readable instructions to the bill pay engine . Those instructions are to cause the bill pay engine to access one or more internal and one or more external systems and respectively. The one or more internal systems and the one or more external systems are systems that maintain financial account data for a user. The bill pay engine performs substantially the same operations as described above with respect to with the exception of a unified graphical presentation output. As discussed above one of the limitations of present day systems is a limited user experience with respect to bill pay services. For many reasons financial institutions providing online bill pay services for internal accounts are unable to provide an interface to other financial institutions for direct manipulation of other financial accounts two of which are the ability to send funds to and withdraw funds from those financial accounts. To provide some level of bill pay services the financial institution may provide a link to an external provider and even pay for the service the provider makes available. However the entire experience that the user has with the external provider is separate from that they have with the financial institution.

The integration engine provides the bill pay engine the ability to retrieve information from and provide access to both internal and external systems concurrently in one example. The unified graphical presentation formatted by the user interface module and provided as an output from the bill pay engine to the user access system delivers a single user interface to the user. The user can attend to all of their financial obligations whether those financial obligations are with the operator of the bill pay engine or not. Typically the operator of the bill pay engine would only interface with one external provider or system but more then one system may be accessed without departing from the scope of the present discussion.

The unified graphical presentation is transmitted to the user access system . In one embodiment the unified graphical presentation is combined with other materials and transmitted to the user. In an alternate embodiment the unified graphical presentation is received by the user access system and transmitted directly to the user without the inclusion of any other materials.

The user access system may be implemented as a web server in one example. The user access system through the use of any suitable interactive web technology provides an interactive experience to the user through which access to and maintenance of their financial obligations can be accomplished. Any technology that provides interactivity through a web browser is considered to be within the scope of the present discussion and may include without limitation hyper text mark up language HTML Dynamic HTML DHTML JavaScript and Ajax.

The external data source access engine may be connected to a single external system in one example. However the external data source access engine may be connected to multiple external systems 1 to n as shown in in an alternate example. In the latter arrangement operations for disparate account types may be handled by differing external systems. For instance all of the external bill pay operations for credit card accounts may be handled by a first external system operations for all accounts where a physical check must be created may be handled by a second external system while all other operations are handled by a third external system . Through such an arrangement the costs associated with an external system provider may be reduced such savings passed on to customers or retained as a profit of the operation.

The request for account information and access is received by the external data source access engine and is passed to the proper system software object. In the first example above only one system software object is used and all requests are passed to that one system software object. In the second example above the external data source access engine first parses the request to determine which of the software objects operates on that request. Each of the system software objects or external data source software object is configured to receive the message and translate the message into instructions executable by the external system interface. In one embodiment the system software object is pre configured with the interface requirements of the system interface . The interface requirements may be defined by a WSDL document in one example which is provided by the operator of the external system to the operator of the bill pay engine . The interface requirements may alternately be defined by an application programming interface API document which may also be provided by the operator of the external system. In an alternate embodiment at least one of the system software objects is configured to dynamically request and receive the WSDL document from the system interface . In such an arrangement the WSDL document is received and then consumed by the system software object which is configured to determine the proper translations between the message received from the integration engine and the proper commands to issue to the system interface to perform the operations requested by the message received.

In the example of multiple external systems each of the system software objects are configured uniquely insofar as the system interfaces are unique. For example The WSDL provided for system interface may define a wholly different set of allowable operations to the system software object such as allowing new account set up bill pay operations real time funds transfer confirmations and the like. The system interface may only allow account look up operations to the system software object . Therefore the configurations of system software object and system software object are unique. However usage of multiple system software objects to access one or many system interfaces to the same external system may be used in an alternate embodiment. In such an arrangement threading of operations and load balancing may be achieved.

In all embodiments the operations are continuous in that the integration engine may require multiple operations to satisfy a particular user requirement. For example an account set up call may be followed by an account balance call which may then be followed by a call to initiate a funds transfer to satisfy a pending balance. It may be advantageous in some examples to initiate a communications session between the system software object and the system interface that is persistent in that the session is not closed upon return of the account set up confirmation or receipt of the account balance. Alternately the operations may be isochronous between the object and the interface in that each operation requires a new communications session to be initiated and set up. Either type of communication arrangement may be used without departing from the scope of the present discussion.

The apparatus and systems described above with respect to may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Although depicted as separate modules in the functionality described above with respect to each of the modules or engines may be combined with other modules or engines without departing from the scope of the present application.

At block a bill pay request is received by the bill pay engine . The request may contain any of the following without limitation request for account set up request for account balance request for account listing request for funds transfer to or from the account request for account status and the like. The bill pay engine determines which of the accounts referenced in the bill pay request received at block are maintained internally and which are maintained externally. At block information is retrieved from the internal systems by the internal data source access engine . At block information is retrieved from the one or more external systems by the external data source access engine . As discussed above retrieving information from the internal and external systems may be continuous in that more then one retrieving operation is required. In such an arrangement the access engines and may maintain a communicative connection with the internal and external systems for the purposes of retrieving information from the internal and external systems.

In one embodiment the operations at block and block are performed concurrently. In an alternate embodiment the operations at block and block are threaded such that a discrete communication to enable the operations at block is performed first and then a discrete communication to enable the operations at block is performed second. Such an arrangement may be advantageous if the communications pipeline from the integration engine to the access engines is limited. However the preferred mode of operation is that block and block are performed concurrently and in parallel.

At block the integration receives information from both the internal and external systems and integrates that information into a single unified graphical presentation such as that described above with respect to . The single unified graphical presentation is then presented to the user at block . This may include transmission from a user access system as described above to the user requesting bill pay services. Alternately the bill pay engine may interface directly with a computer system of the user. In such an arrangement the functionality of the user access system may be performed on a software object resident on the computer system of the user that provides secure communications with the bill pay engine .

The customer initiates a request for bill pay services on their computing device to the user access system through a network . The user access system passes the request to the bill pay engine operated by the system provider . The bill pay engine through the use of the user interface module presents a single user interface for bill pay services back to the customer . Further operations are performed by the integration engine of the bill pay engine to access both the internal systems and the systems of the external bill pay provider . The internal data source access engine accesses each of the internal systems to retrieve information about current account status and any pending financial obligations. The internal data source access engine access the internal systems through the use of internal data source software objects. The system provider has control over the types of systems used to maintain the checking savings and insurance accounts in this example and the interfaces to them may be similar in nature allowing a single internal data source software object to access all three. However using the apparatus described above with respect to the external systems in the individual systems employed for each of the internal accounts may be unique and require an individual and unique software object configured to interface with it.

The external data source access engine interfaces with the external bill pay provider through the use of an external data source software object as described above with respect to . Using as a reference the external bill pay provider in would be the first of the external systems or system with no other external systems needed. Each of the external systems in is a separate external bill pay provider. In the present example one external bill pay provider is used. The external bill pay provider in this example provides customers the ability to attend to financial obligations either electronically or through the use of physical checks. The customer has a credit card account and a sanitation service through the city which requires a physical check. The external data source access engine through the external data source software object access the external bill pay provider and provides the integration engine information regarding the accounts registered with the external bill pay provider for the customer .

The integration engine receives information from the internal and external data source access engines and and integrates that information into a single unified presentation which is then sent to the user interface module for presentation to the customer . Through this mechanism the customer can quickly see what outstanding financial obligations they have and the account status of sources from which they can satisfy those obligations i.e. their checking account or savings account. The customer having a pending bill for sanitation services in the amount of 50.00 a minimum payment due on their credit card of 100.00 and an insurance premium of 150.00 due in this example issues a command through the user interface to the bill pay engine to pay each of these obligations. The command passes through the integration engine in the case of the external bill pay provider to the external data source access engine . That command is translated by the external data source software object configured to interface with the systems of the external bill pay provider and instructions are sent to the external bill pay provider to pay 100.00 to the credit card bank and to issue a physical check in the amount of 50.00 to the city for financial services. An additional command is sent through the internal data source access engine to the internal systems to affect a transfer of funds from the checking account system to the insurance account system to satisfy the 150.00 premium due.

The external bill pay provider in this example may be configured with any financial account of the customer that is capable of having funds withdrawn. That may include the checking account system in or some other account. In the former example the external bill pay provider issues a funds transfer request which in typical bill pay operations does not pass back through the bill pay engine but through some other means such as an Automated Clearing House ACH transaction system or with an electronic wire transfer through the Federal Reserve Bank system. Operations for the latter example proceed in similar manner. In either case the customer must pre configure an account with the external bill pay provider that is suitable for the payment of financial obligations. Such configuration may also be through the external data source access engine using operations and systems previously described.

In a further embodiment the bill pay engine may additionally include a payment module not shown in that is configured to execute a funds transfer request between the internal and external systems. Through such an arrangement the bill pay engine can execute funds transfers independent of an external bill pay provider . This may be advantageous if the external bill pay provider only provides access to information and will not allow receipt of instructions intended to cause funds transfers. The funds transfer requests executed by the payment module may include without limitation an ACH transaction or a wire transfer transaction.

Although the computer is shown to contain only a single processor and a single bus the disclosed embodiment applies equally to computers that may have multiple processors and to computers that may have multiple busses with some or all performing different functions in different ways.

The storage device represents one or more mechanisms for storing data. For example the storage device may include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices and or other machine readable media. In other embodiments any appropriate type of storage device may be used. Although only one storage device is shown multiple storage devices and multiple types of storage devices may be present. Further although the computer is drawn to contain the storage device it may be distributed across other computers for example on a server.

The storage device includes a controller not shown in and data items . The controller includes instructions capable of being executed on the processor to carry out the functions as previously described above with reference to . In another embodiment some or all of the functions are carried out via hardware in lieu of a processor based system. In one embodiment the controller is a web browser but in other embodiments the controller may be a database system a file system an electronic mail system a media manager an image manager or may include any other functions capable of accessing data items. Of course the storage device may also contain additional software and data not shown which is not necessary to understanding the invention.

Although the controller and the data items are shown to be within the storage device in the computer some or all of them may be distributed across other systems for example on a server and accessed via the network .

The output device is that part of the computer that displays output to the user. The output device may be a liquid crystal display LCD well known in the art of computer hardware. But in other embodiments the output device may be replaced with a gas or plasma based flat panel display or a traditional cathode ray tube CRT display. In still other embodiments any appropriate display device may be used. Although only one output device is shown in other embodiments any number of output devices of different types or of the same type may be present. In an embodiment the output device displays a user interface.

The input device may be a keyboard mouse or other pointing device trackball touchpad touch screen keypad microphone voice recognition device or any other appropriate mechanism for the user to input data to the computer and manipulate the user interface previously discussed. Although only one input device is shown in another embodiment any number and type of input devices may be present.

The network interface device provides connectivity from the computer to the network through any suitable communications protocol. The network interface device sends and receives data items from the network .

The bus may represent one or more busses e.g. USB Universal Serial Bus PCI ISA Industry Standard Architecture X Bus EISA Extended Industry Standard Architecture or any other appropriate bus and or bridge also called a bus controller .

The computer may be implemented using any suitable hardware and or software such as a personal computer or other electronic computing device. Portable computers laptop or notebook computers PDAs Personal Digital Assistants pocket computers appliances telephones and mainframe computers are examples of other possible configurations of the computer . For example other peripheral devices such as audio adapters or chip programming devices such as EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory programming devices may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware already depicted.

The network may be any suitable network and may support any appropriate protocol suitable for communication to the computer . In an embodiment the network may support wireless communications. In another embodiment the network may support hard wired communications such as a telephone line or cable. In another embodiment the network may support the Ethernet IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.3x specification. In another embodiment the network may be the Internet and may support IP Internet Protocol . In another embodiment the network may be a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . In another embodiment the network may be a hotspot service provider network. In another embodiment the network may be an intranet. In another embodiment the network may be a GPRS General Packet Radio Service network. In another embodiment the network may be any appropriate cellular data network or cell based radio network technology. In another embodiment the network may be an IEEE 802.11 wireless network. In still another embodiment the network may be any suitable network or combination of networks. Although one network is shown in other embodiments any number of networks of the same or different types may be present.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented in an operating environment comprising software installed on any programmable device in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware.

Although embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

