---

title: Prepay accounts for applications, services and content for communication devices
abstract: A system and method for managing a billing account including a client device, a transceiver, logic configured to establish at least one primary account wherein the at least one primary account represents periodic fees that are charged to the billing account on a periodic basis; and logic configured to establish at least one secondary account wherein the at least one secondary account represents an amount of prepaid service that is available for the billing account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09143622&OS=09143622&RS=09143622
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09143622
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060217
---
The present invention generally relates towards a system and method using prepay accounts for applications services and content for communication devices. More particularly the present invention relates to prepay account management for both wireless and non wireless devices.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there are a variety of portable personal computing devices including wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones laptops personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices that are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

However these smaller and more powerful personal computing devices are typically severely resource constrained. For example the screen size amount of available memory and file system space amount of input and output capabilities and processing capability may each be limited by the small size of the device. Due to severe resource constraints it is often typically desirable for example to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such remote personal computing devices client devices .

Some of the personal computing devices utilize an application programming interface API or application programming interfaces APIs sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms that are installed onto their local computer platform and which are used for example to simplify operations of such devices such as by providing generalized calls for device specific resources. An API is a set of routines used by an application program to direct the performance of procedures used by the computer s operating system.

Further some APIs are also known to provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are fully executable on such devices. In addition some of such APIs are known to be operationally located between the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device computing functionality is made available to the software application without requiring the software developer to have the specific computing device system source code. Further some APIs are known to provide mechanisms for secure communications between such personal devices i.e. clients and remote devices i.e. servers using secure cryptographic information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. BREW can operate with a computing device s e.g. a wireless cellular phone operating system and can among other features provide interfaces to hardware features particularly found on personal computing devices. BREW can also provide these interfaces on such personal computing devices at a relatively low cost with respect to demands on device resources and with respect to the price paid by consumers for devices containing the BREW API. Additional features of BREW include its end to end software distribution platform that provides a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and computing device consumers. At least one such currently available end to end software distribution platform includes logic distributed over a server client architecture where the server performs for example billing security and application distribution functionality and the client performs for example application execution security and user interface functionality.

In current wireless server client systems information can be transmitted to the wireless devices such as a cellular telephone by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. SMS messages result only in a disruptive notification e.g. popup window to the user before the message goes to a generic inbox or else the message may be temporarily displayed before being deleted. Conventional SMS messages do not take advantage of the advances in the enhanced computing and display capabilities of the wireless clients.

The foregoing description of the related art is merely intended to provide an overview of some of the known uses of APIs and as an introduction to the BREW platform which can used in various embodiments of the invention. However the invention is not to be construed as being limited to a specific implementation operating platform or environment.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed towards a system and method using prepay accounts for applications services and content for wireless and wired communication devices.

At least one embodiment includes a system for managing a billing account includes a client device including a transceiver logic configured to establish at least one primary account wherein the at least one primary account represents periodic fees that are charged to the billing account on a periodic basis and logic configured to establish at least one secondary account wherein the at least one secondary account represents an amount of prepaid service that is available for the billing account.

Another embodiment includes a method for billing prepay accounts including establishing at least one primary account wherein the at least one primary account represents periodic fees that are charged to the billing account on a periodic basis and establishing at least one secondary account wherein the at least one secondary account represents an amount of prepaid service that is available for the billing account.

Another embodiment includes a wireless client device including a transceiver a user interface and a billing manager for managing the at least one primary account and the at least one secondary account and wherein the at least one secondary account represents an amount of prepaid service.

Another embodiment includes a computer readable medium on which is stored a computer program for managing a billing account the computer program including instructions which upon being executed by at least one computing device causes the computing device to perform the process of establishing at least one primary account wherein the at least one primary account represents periodic fees that are charged to the billing account on a periodic basis and establishing at least one secondary account wherein the at least one secondary account represents an amount of prepaid service that is available for the billing account.

Various embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

One or more embodiments of the invention can be used in conjunction with a runtime environment e.g. API executing on a computing device. One such runtime environment API is the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software previously discussed. However one or more embodiments of the invention can be used with other types of runtime environments APIS that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless client computing devices.

The application download server is shown here on a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . There can be a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the client devices and across the wireless network . There is preferably also at least one stored application database that holds the software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices and . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the configuration illustrated in is merely exemplary. Accordingly embodiments of the invention can include one or more servers that can each perform all the described functions and contain all necessary hardware and software or can contain only selected functionality.

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates system including the components of the wireless network and the interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote client devices such as wireless client computing devices and to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as ad display server which are used to provide cellular telecommunications services communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In the embodiment shown a server can include the application download server ad dispatch server and the stored application database . However these servers can also be independent devices. The ad dispatch server can provide additional ad services based on the configuration of each of the client devices and .

The carrier network controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BTS . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The BTS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the client devices such as cellular telephone by short messaging service SMS UDP datagrams or other over the air OTA methods known in the art. The term API direct directed SMS and BREW directed SMS are used interchangeably in the following description to indicate an OTA message that includes coding to launch an application resident on the client device. Likewise the terms advertisement ad announcement and message are used interchangeably to indicate information and or instructions sent to a client device.

The client device here a wireless client computing device such as a cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications and or commands transmitted form the application download server ad dispatch server and or server . The computer platform can include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The API also includes a Carrier Announcement Manager module CAM containing logic configured to process special OTA e.g. SMS ads transmitted from the carrier network . The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as know to those skilled in the art such as magnetic media EPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

The wireless client computing device such as cellular telephone has installed on it or otherwise downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like. For example the cellular telephone may receive one or more software applications downloaded from the application download server . The software applications may be stored on the local database when not in use. The cellular telephone or other wireless computing device may upload resident applications stored on the local database to memory for execution on the API when so desired by the user or invoked by another API.

As used herein client device wireless device or client computing device includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein directed to ads communicated between a client device and a server. The client computing device can be serviced by at least one remote server with respect to at least such ads. Some examples of wireless computing devices which may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention includes cellular telephones or other wireless communication units PDAs laptops paging devices navigation devices e.g. GPS based systems handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the client device and the BTS can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the global system for mobile communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device BTS and MSC . The MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the client device access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing in addition to voice transmission data can be transmitted to the client device via SMS or other OTA methods known in the art.

In one exemplary embodiment of the usage of prepay accounts is illustrated. In this scenario a plurality of functions are performed in a wireless communication system which includes a client device including a transceiver and logic configured to perform various functions. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments discussed may also be implemented in a non wireless communication system e.g. a landline telephone .

A primary account is established for a particular user. For example the primary account may represent the monthly fees and charges associated with a user s mobile telephone account. In addition to the primary account at least one secondary account is also established and associated with the same user s primary account. In this particular example the secondary account may contain a prepay amount for the holder of the primary account to use for some other service e.g. a game data content subscription etc .

In an embodiment where data content delivery and usage predominates over voice telephony usage those skilled in the art will appreciate that the primary account e.g. telephony may be established as the secondary account and the secondary account e.g data services may be established as a primary account without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The idea is that one account may be used and applied for one given service and another separate account may be used and applied for another separate service.

Charges against both the primary account and the secondary account are managed. For simplicity shows the management of the secondary account but it will be understood that related account management techniques may be used in conjunction with the primary account. Charges that are being made against the secondary account are monitored to ascertain how much of the account value has been used or expended and how much of the account value is remaining .

The user may then draw against the charges and monitor the prepay amount that is remaining in the secondary account . Once the funds in the secondary account have been exhausted the user can no longer incur charges against the secondary account until further action is taken. One option is that the secondary account may be replenished if desired at that point in time when there is no remaining value in the account or at some other time to increase the amount of prepay that is available or bring it up to a threshold value level. Another option is that the account may remain unfunded indefinitely or until a future date that the secondary account will be replenished in total or in part.

The following example illustrates one exemplary implementation scenario. A parent may be paying the monthly phone charges in a primary account for a child to use and make calls on a particular mobile telephone that the child has been given the rights and privileges to use by the parent. The monthly phone charges are associated grouped and managed as belonging to the primary account under an identifier such as a subscriber identification SID for that particular telephone and associated with the primary account.

As an example of a secondary account the parent funds an additional 10 worth of prepaid charges in a secondary account that is associated with that SID and particular telephone for playing a particular Game X that the child has enjoyed playing in the past or expressed an interest in playing in the future. In other words that particular child has 10 worth of charges to play Game X. Then the child may play that game until the 10 limit has been attained. Subsequent game playing may occur only when additional funds are deposited into the secondary account.

In another example the prepay amount in the account can be for the generic group of games in general and then the child can suballocate the prepay amount against a plurality of different games that are authorized or part of the accounts. Another example of a secondary account would be for 20 worth of multimedia clip downloads of sports entertainment or educational content.

The concept is that there is a secondary account that is separate from the primary account and this secondary account can be used to fund additional charges for some other type of data service that is accessible on that particular wireless device.

In another example the primary account is associated with the charges for a high speed data content delivery system e.g. a high speed Internet connection . In this example the secondary account would be a 20 subscription to a stock or commodity research service and news source with advanced charting functions.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that different primary accounts can be set up with different permutations of secondary accounts and vice versa. Also there can be a third a fourth fifth and so on accounts used in conjunction with the primary account without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as presented herein.

The use of multiple accounts allows third parties to fund the multiple accounts and introduce the user to different applications data services and data content that they might otherwise not be exposed to. This both enriches the user ultimate experience and provides a vehicle for others e.g. game developers the ability to get a prospective user hooked on a particular game and generate future revenue streams from new product releases.

In another embodiment the at least one primary account and the at least one secondary account are linked or related together and the respective account values in both accounts are managed in a predetermined way.

For example let us say that the parent does not want to pay more than 100 total for the combined charges of the primary and secondary accounts. The parent allocates 60 per month in the primary account for telephone charges and 40 per month in the secondary account for game charges for the 100 total referred to above . If the child demonstrates control and restraint regarding their phone usage and only spends 30 dollars per month in the primary account the remaining 30 portion that was not used or some portion thereof in the primary account may be added or transferred to the 40 dollar amount funded in the secondary account for a total of 70 in the secondary account. The end result is that the 100 combined limit that the parent had established for both accounts has not been exceeded and all the parties involved in the transaction are happy.

In further embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing methods can be implemented by the execution of a program embodied on a computer readable medium such as the memory of a computer platform. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM accessible by or residing within the client device and or server. Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as direct access storage device DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only media e.g. ROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to those embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The activities or steps of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any peculiar order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described in the singular the plural is contemplated unless the limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

