---

title: Vehicular multiband antenna
abstract: A coaxial antenna is implemented that combines a VHF and UHF antenna on a common radiating element. The antenna may further include a satellite antenna that, together with the VHF/UHF antenna fits into a whip antenna footprint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07589684&OS=07589684&RS=07589684
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 07589684
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061219
---
The invention claimed in this patent application was made with U.S. Government support under contract no. W56HZV 05 C 0724 awarded by the US Army. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

This patent application is related to a co pending patent application filed on the same day as the present application having the title Vehicular Multiband Antenna and the applicant John T. Apostolos.

The present invention relates generally to antennas and more particularly to a compact antenna that is capable of transmitting and receiving signals in multiple bands and of being mounted on a vehicle to facilitate communications.

Communication antennas including communications antennas for vehicles are generally adapted to receive and or transmit and receive signals in a particular frequency range. The antennas are sized and configured in order to optimize efficiency at particular frequency ranges.

VHF UHF and satellite antennas have conventionally been implemented in separate antenna structures. For example receiving satellite antennas have generally been implemented with a dish type antenna structure while VHF and UHF antennas have generally been implemented as monopole or dipole antennas and sometimes as dipole array structures. UHF antennas have also been implemented as dish antennas. To miniaturize the size of antennas meander line loaded antennas are known and are exemplified by U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 790 080 6 323 814 6 373 440 6 373 446 6 480 158 6 492 953 6 404 391 and 6 590 593 assigned to the assignee hereof and incorporated herein by reference. However notwithstanding various antenna design techniques conventional VHF and UHF and satellite antennas have generally not been combined into a single antenna structure.

For example military law enforcement and even commercial vehicles may be required to be equipped with communications devices to permit operators to exchange information with a variety of different information services command and control or dispatch centers GPS and other information. Therefore it is not uncommon for such vehicles to include multiple separate antennas each designed to communicate efficiently at a particular frequency range or a few frequency ranges.

There is a need however for an antenna that is capable of transmitting in the VHF UHF and satellite frequency ranges using a shared radiating element. There is a further need for a combined antenna to assume a standard footprint such as a co axial whip antenna that may be implemented and fitted onto existing vehicles. There is still a further need for a combined antenna capable of efficient operation in the following four frequency bands 30 88 MHz 108 156 MHz 225 450 MHz and 1350 1550 and 1650 1850 MHz that fits into the form factor of a 30 88 MHz whip antenna.

According to the present invention a coaxial antenna is implemented that combines a VHF and UHF antenna on a common radiating element. The antenna may further include a satellite antenna that together with the VHF UHF antenna fits into a whip antenna footprint.

According to one embodiment of the invention a coaxial antenna capable of operating in at least two different frequency ranges includes radiating elements and chokes. The radiating elements are capable of operating in a first frequency range of interest and the chokes limit the operating efficiency of at least portions of the radiating elements at the second frequency range. The choked portions of the radiating elements are not excited efficiently at the second frequency range of interest and therefore create two different effective antenna configurations for the different frequency ranges handled by the antenna. The first frequency range may be lower than or greater than the second frequency range. Embodiments of antennas according to the present invention may include transmitting antennas receiving antennas or antennas that transmit and receive signals.

According to additional embodiments of the present invention communication with the antenna at the first and second frequency ranges may occur through a common conductor and the common conductor may form at least part of the radiating elements capable of operating at the first and second frequency ranges. In addition the common conductor may be a shielded conductor such as a coaxial cable. The first and second frequency ranges may comprise frequency ranges in the UHF and VHF frequency bands respectively.

According to still other embodiments of the invention the antenna may further include a second conductor capable of carrying a third frequency range. In this configuration the common conductor and second conductor may enter the base of the antenna and the second conductor may be coupled to an antenna element which may be a satellite antenna at the top end of the antenna for operation in the third and even additional frequency ranges. The third frequency range may include a L band frequency range or other frequency ranges including those used for satellite communication.

According to one embodiment of the invention an antenna according to the present invention is configured to have similar overall dimensions as the Army s AS3900A whip antenna and operate at 30 88 MHz and 108 156 MHz in the first frequency range 225 450 MHz in the second frequency range and 1350 1550 and 1650 1850 MHz in the third frequency range.

According to the present invention a coaxial antenna is implemented that combines a VHF and UHF antenna on a common radiating element. The antenna may further include a satellite antenna that together with the VHF UHF antenna fits into a whip antenna footprint. The antenna uses a common feed for the UHF VHF antenna and a separate feed for the satellite antenna.

Referring to the antenna has three sections and a feed at its base a satellite antenna section a VHF section and a UHF section . The antenna is fed at its base by a UHF VHF feed and a satellite feed . The satellite section includes a satellite antenna . The satellite antenna is generally positioned at the top of the antenna structure to facilitate extra terrestrial communication. The satellite antenna may be any convenient type or size satellite antenna depending on the application frequencies of interest footprint and other antenna requirements. The satellite may include for example a dish antenna a quadrifiler helix antenna or asymmetric dipole antenna among others. According to one embodiment of the invention the satellite antenna is a L band satellite antenna that operates in the frequency ranges 1350 1550 and 1650 1850 MHz.

The satellite antenna is fed through the antenna structure by the L band satellite feed . The feed traverses the length of the antenna structure from its base to the satellite antenna . According to one embodiment of the invention the feed comprises a transmission line such as a coaxial cable or other shielded conductor that passes through the UHF VHF feed by rotation around a ferrite loaded coil. This coil may be used to resonate the VHF portion of the antenna at low end frequencies. The shields of the L band and VHF UHF conductors may be coupled together along their length and are electrically coupled to the lower portions of the UHF VHF antenna structure portions and .

The lower VHF UHF antenna portions and according to one embodiment of the invention are coupled at one end to the shields and may be coupled at the other end to a ground plane through a resistive element for example through a 50 ohm shunt resistor. However it will be understood that other values may be used. In general the shunt resistor together with other elements of the antenna structure provides a distributed loss function at lower frequencies.

The upper portions of the VHF UHF antenna structure and the and are coupled to the central conductor of the VHF UHF feed. This central conductor carries a multiplexed VHF UHF signal that is received via the antenna or that is fed to the antenna for transmission over the VHF UHF feed. In this configuration the VHF antenna comprises a centrally fed coaxial antenna that has an electrical length represented by the length of the portion . At the same time the UHF portion of the combined antenna structure is implemented along a portion of the length of the VHF antenna namely the portions identified as . The VHF antenna structure includes along its electrical length chokes and . The chokes may be implemented in any convenient manner. According to one embodiment of the invention the chokes may be implemented as cylindrical versions of strip meanderline transmission lines with high and low impedance sections. In this embodiment the coaxial chokes are cylinders of revolution of the meanderline structure seen in the cross section of . Other examples of chokes include strip meanderlines and coaxial meanderlines. The chokes are used to allow lower frequency VHF signals to propagate along the full length of the antenna structure between the base and the chokes while the UHF signals are confined to the portion between and . The chokes are pictured as appearing on the left and right side of the antenna structure. However it will be understood that due to the coaxial nature of the antenna chokes and and the other choke pairs as shown may be implemented as a single choke in this configuration.

A ferrite element may be implemented at the base of the antenna so that the VHF UHF conductors and the L band conductors are would around the base. The base not shown is generally used for mounting and to facilitate making electrical connection to the ground plane and to the VHF UHF and L band feeds.

According to one embodiment of the invention the full length of the multi band antenna is utilized for frequencies less than 160 MHz. Losses in the chokes together with losses in the ferrite elements shown and the resistive element results in diminished efficiency at low frequencies. The efficiency of the VHF antenna at 30 MHz is about 25 and the total length of the multi band antenna from the base to the L band antenna is approximately 96 inches.

During operation the multi band antenna may be positioned on a ground plane for example on a surface of a vehicle. The feeds of the L band and VHF UHF band antenna are then coupled to a transceiver to transmit and receive signals via the multi band antenna in frequencies of interest. The VHF UHF signals for transmission via the multi band antenna are multiplexed onto the VHF UHF feed for transmission. The L band satellite signal is transmitted onto the L band feed. The VHF signals on the VHF UHF feed are radiated by the antenna along the electrical length of the antenna between the base and the chokes . The UHF signals on the VHF UHF feed are radiated by the antenna along the electrical length of the antenna between the chokes and . The L band signals traverse the length of the antenna structure and reach the L band antenna where they are transmitted by the L band antenna

When receiving signals the electrical length of the antenna between the base and the chokes receive signals and which are electrically coupled to the VHF UHF feed that transverse the feed to the receiver which de multiplexes the VHF signal from the UHF signal. UHF signals are received along the electrical length of the antenna between the chokes and are electrically coupled to the VHF UHF feed and are demultiplexed from the VHF signals by a receiver. Similarly L band signals are received by the L band antenna and coupled to the receiver via the L band feed.

Similar to the antennas of the shields of the L band and VHF UHF conductors are coupled together. The shields may be further coupled to the VHF stub which is coaxial and capacitively coupled to ground. The VHF UHF central conductor is coupled to the VHF UHF antenna which is in turn coupled to the VHF stub through a choke which may be a meanderline choke or any other type choke as described above that provides the appropriate division between two frequency ranges in a preferred case the VHF UHF frequencies described above. In addition a UHF sleeve may be coupled to the base of the VHF stub. The UHF sleeve may be further coupled to the ground plane through a matching network that may have the same or approximately the same parameters as a matching network implemented as an input to the VHF UHF conductors . In this configuration the VHF UHF feed is approximately at the center of the antenna as shown between the lower and upper portions of the antenna.

The upper portion of the antenna may include a break region . The break region is a region of the antenna that may be separated and generally includes blind mate connectors and mating threading to allow upper and lower antenna portions to be screwed together to create both mechanical and electrical connections to permit for example the L band signals to pass through the break region. The shields from the conductors and are coupled to the upper VHF UHF antenna portion which are further coupled to an upper VHF stub through a choke . The choke matches the choke implemented in the lower portion of the antenna. In one embodiment the meanderline chokes may include a cut off frequency at 225 MHz. This acts as a low pass filter. In addition the outer conductor of the L band conductor may be shorted to the upper VHF stub as shown. In addition the at the upper end of the antenna the L band conductor and shields passes the upper VHF stub and through L band sleeves. The shields of the L band conductor then form part of a L band dipole at the upper end and the L band central conductor is coupled to an L band antenna at the upper end of the antenna. Such a configuration may be implemented to realize a 96 inch coaxial antenna in a preferred embodiment that radiates in the frequency ranges identified above.

While particular embodiments of the invention have been shown and described it will be understood that changes may be made to those embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example while particular frequency ranges and VHF UHF and L band frequencies have been described it will be understood that frequencies outside of these frequency ranges may be implemented according to the present invention.

