---

title: High surface area chemical/biological air-purifying filter
abstract: Airflow is improved for multi-agent chemical biological air-purifying apparatus by providing a filter module that has multiple filter elements contained within a substantially sealed housing. The housing secures the filter elements in a spaced relation such that the top and bottom faces of each filter element are exposed to the flow of air and provides an air path within the housing adapted to channel air through the multiple filter elements in a parallel flow. The filter module may be made from a flexible and resilient plastic material and may be contoured to conform to the shape of a helmet liner or similar headgear.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07861719&OS=07861719&RS=07861719
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07861719
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060919
---
The present invention relates in general to air purifying filters and more particularly to replaceable filter modules especially suited for use in breathing apparatus designed to provide protection against a range of toxic airborne contaminants including chemical and biological agents and the like.

Chemical Biological air purifying filtration devices such as those currently used by U.S. joint force and homeland security personnel employ multiple layers of filter media to provide protection against a wide range of aerosol and chemical threat agents. One or more layers typically contain a fibrous medium that traps particulate threats of biological origin e.g. bacteria viruses and toxins and other harmful aerosols by inertial impaction diffusion and or electrostatic attraction. Another layer typically contains a sorbent material such as a bed of activated carbon to capture gaseous toxic vapors by physical adsorption. To remove high volatility toxic vapors that are not retained on activated carbon by physical adsorption the adsorbent layer is often impregnated with a reactive chemical that breaks down the vapor into more benign chemical compounds that can be adsorbed.

One significant challenge in designing a Chemical Biological air purifying filtration device is to provide protection against a wide range of contaminants for a reasonable period of time without imposing a burdensome breathing resistance on the user and without adding to filter bulkiness weight or air purifying system complexity. For example filter cartridges used in the M50 dual cartridge Chemical Biological respirator widely deployed by U.S. joint forces are about 2.5 cm in depth and provide a combined filter surface area of 125 cm. Carbon adsorbent beds in the filter cartridges are about 10 to 15 mm deep. A relatively deep carbon bed depth is needed to avoid early breakthrough of toxic vapors that are injected at relatively high linear velocity in filters of this surface area. Aerosol filter media also needs to be about 10 to 15 mm deep to trap smaller particles of concern. While the twin filter design of the M50 is highly effective and represents a significant improvement over previous designs breathing resistance provided by twin filter masks such as the M50 can cause premature fatigue and user discomfort especially in operations where users are under significant physical or mental stress.

Incorporating larger filters in conventional chemical biological respirator masks intended for use by military and law enforcement personnel has been especially difficult. These difficulties include obstructing the wearer s field of vision adding weight and bulk to already burdensome headgear and restricting movement of the head. For the reasons stated above and for additional reasons stated hereinafter which will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the present specification there is a need for an improved Chemical Biological air purifying filter that provides reduced breathing resistance without increasing the overall size of a filter cartridge or module.

In general in one aspect an embodiment of a filter module for use in an air purifying apparatus includes a plurality of filter elements each comprising top and bottom faces through which air may pass and a sealed peripheral edge that is substantially air tight a sealed housing that encloses and secures the plurality of filter elements in a substantially parallel spaced relation such that the top and bottom faces of each filter element are exposed to the flow of air an air path within the housing adapted to channel air through the multiple filter elements in a parallel flow a first air opening in the housing in fluid communication with the air path to provide air to the filter elements and a second air opening in the housing in fluid communication with the air path to outlet filtered air from the filter module.

In yet another aspect a method for increasing the surface area of a filter module for use in a chemical biological air purifying apparatus includes providing a plurality of multi layered air purifying filter elements orienting the plurality of multi layered air purifying filter elements in a substantially parallel spaced relation enclosing the filter elements within a substantially sealed housing having an air inlet and an air outlet and providing an air path within the housing adapted to channel air through the plurality of multi layered air purifying filter elements in a parallel airflow.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings. The drawings illustrate specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied in methods systems and devices. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Each filter element has a top face and a bottom face through which air can pass and a peripheral edge that is sealed so that it is substantially air tight. Sealing of peripheral edges can be accomplished with a silicone polyurethane or a thermoplastic edge sealant or a similar material. The peripheral edges of each filter element are in sealing contact with the sidewalls and of housing and are secured inside a sealed housing in a parallel spaced relation such that the top face and bottom face of each filter element are exposed to the flow of air. The same material used to seal peripheral edges may also be used to secure the filter elements into housing .

As shown in air paths and are provided within housing so that air passes through the multiple filter elements in a parallel flow. The air path traverses at least one inner passage in the space between the adjacent filter elements. For N filter elements enclosed within housing N 1 inner passages are thus provided. Air path also traverses outer passages in the spaces above and below the outermost filter elements. The outer passages include an upper air passage provided above the top face of the top filter element and a lower air passage provided under the top face of the bottom filter element . Air passages and are dimensioned to expose substantially the entire surface areas of top and bottom faces and to enable air to flow freely over and through each filter element enclosed within housing .

Three air openings and are provided through sidewalls of housing to allow air to flow through filter module . A first air opening which may function as an inlet or an outlet communicates the flow of air to or from inner air passage . Air openings and communicate the flow of air to or from top and bottom outer air passages and respectively. In general passages and and air openings and are dimensioned to minimize air resistance. In this embodiment air openings and are slot shaped apertures that extend substantially across the horizontal length of the sidewalls .

Housing is preferably made from a flexible chemically resistant plastic material such as silicone epoxy polyurethane thermoplastic or similar material and may be formed by pouring or injecting a liquid sealer such as silicone epoxy polyurethane thermoplastic or the like into a mold around filter elements . Alternatively housing may be molded in a separate process operation and the filter elements sealed and secured therein with a suitable gasket material. As described more particularly below embodiments of modular filters according to the present invention may be shaped and contoured to conform to the inside of a helmet hood or mask such as a cavity in the headgear lining above or behind the head of the wearer.

Each Filter element is made up of multiple layers of filter media including at least one sorbent filter layer . In the preferred embodiment sorbent layer is sandwiched between top and bottom layers of aerosol filter layers which enables the airflow through filter elements to be reversed. In alternative embodiments non reversible filter elements may be employed to reduce filter module thickness. The use of identical filter elements is preferred to ensure that airflow impedance through each parallel filter element is substantially equivalent.

Sorbent filter layer preferably includes a bed of activated carbon to capture gaseous toxic vapors by physical adsorption. The increased surface area provided by the parallel flow of embodiments according to the present invention generally will enable the use of finer granules of carbon and correspondingly will provide better vapor filtration compared to traditional carbon media. The use of carbon composite media also facilitates development and fabrication of contoured filter modules since the thin layers can be more easily contoured. The carbon media preferred for use in the one or more sorbent layers is a carbon composite media such as KX Industries PLEKX composite media. Carbon loading is accomplished using ground Calgon ASZM TEDA carbon. This media offers excellent vapor filtration and low airflow resistance characteristics. The media can be loaded to at least 1000 grams m2 of carbon and layered 2.5 mm. per layer 1000 g m2 to provide chemical protection that meets the needs of most applications. Carbon mesh sizes may also be varied to optimize filter capacity and or to reduce breathing resistance. Reactants such as metal salts and other specially formulated compounds to neutralize or remove a variety of CWAs and other toxic vapors and gases may also be impregnated in sorbent layers or may be provided in a separate layer.

The particulate aerosol media preferred for use in particulate media layers is an electrostatic particulate filter media such as the 3M Advanced Electret Media. The 3M Advanced Electret Media offers excellent aerosol filtration and very low airflow resistance characteristics and can be layered as needed 1.0 mm per layer to achieve HEPA performance. Aerosol filter layers may also be pleated to increase surface area. Additionally one or more layers may be impregnated with a reactive chemical that breaks down the vapor into more benign chemical compounds that can be adsorbed.

A stack of two filter elements each having a filter surface area of 125 cmprovides a filter surface area of 250 cmin an embodiment of a filter module according to the present invention. Overall filter depth for a single carbon layer stacked filter assembly is approximately 15 mm for a two layer assembly and 25 mm for a three layer assembly etc. As noted additional layered filter elements can be incorporated to achieve filter modules having even greater surface areas.

In operation two flow direction alternatives are possible for the same filter module. shows a first airflow pattern in which input air is received by filter module at air openings and and filtered output air is provided at air opening . shows an alternative airflow pattern in which input air is received by filter module at air opening and filtered output air is provided at air openings and . Determining which airflow alternative to use in a particular embodiment will depend on the configuration and design of the headgear that incorporates filter module .

Filter modules in embodiments according to the present invention may vary in shape and size to meet the needs of a particular application. For example the overall shape of such filter modules may be round oval or rectangular and may be flat or contoured to conform to the shape of an area such as the inside of a helmet or face mask. As shown in embodiments of filter modules according to the present invention may be contoured to conform to the shape of the head and to fit within a cavity provided inside of a helmet liner or other headgear. shows a perspective view of a filter module according to the present invention that has been shaped and sized to fit into a cavity in the lining of a helmet. In this example housing of filter module is substantially concave on the bottom surface not shown and convex on the top surface . shows a schematic cross section of an alternative and somewhat larger filter module that has been contoured to conform to the crown of a person s head.

Filter module is designed according to the schematic shown in and thus includes two multi layered filter elements and secured in a housing in spaced relation so as to form an inner air passage between the filter elements and top and bottom air passages and . Housing is formed of opposing sidewalls and and opposing endwalls and a top wall and a bottom wall opposite the top wall not shown . Elongate slotted air openings and open through opposite sidewall into the top and bottom air passages and . A similar elongate slotted air opening not shown through sidewall allows air to pass into inner passage . The housings of filter modules designed to be incorporated into headgear are preferably made from a flexible resilient chemically resistant plastic material such as silicone epoxy polyurethane thermoplastic or the like. Housings may be formed by pouring or injecting a liquid sealer such as silicone epoxy polyurethane thermoplastic or the like into a mold around filter elements . Alternatively the housing may be formed in one or more separate process operations. Overall filter modules designed to be incorporated into helmet liners and similar headgear such as filter module should be flexible and resilient to be comfortable for the wearer and to provide reasonably good shock absorbing capabilities. At the same time the housing should be sufficiently rigid to avoid constriction of air passages and or compression of filter media that could interfere with filter performance. Ribbing or other spacer elements may be provided to ensure that internal air passages will remain open.

A number of airflow and chemical tests were performed on prototype filters made according to the present invention. Key test parameters are shown in Table 1 below. Three 3 layers of carbon media were used in the prototypes to create approximately 3000 g mof carbon loading. Two aerosol layers were included for each filter element. Performance testing assumed effective filter surface areas of 250 cmand 500 cmwhich represented two concept filter assemblies. Performance testing results are shown in Tables 2 and 3 below. These results demonstrate the potential for significantly reduced breathing resistance in embodiments according to the present invention. Use of smaller mesh carbon 30 70 provides for both improved gas life and reduced breathing resistance. Overall filter depth of the cartridge assembly is 25 mm.

The high surface area capacity provided by embodiments according to the present invention may enable the number of carbon composite layers to be reduced from three layers in some applications. For example a single carbon composite layer sandwiched between top and bottom aerosol layers reduces the overall filter depth to about 15 mm. Such reduced thickness will enable filter modules to be positioned in additional locations. Performance levels can be maintained or improved while airflow resistance continues to be reduced. Table 3 contains performance estimates for the head mounted filter concept.

As has been shown embodiments according to the present invention provide a compact filter module for use in air purifying apparatus such as respirator masks that includes multiple filter elements enclosed in a common housing. The module provides air openings to air passages within the housing that expose both surfaces of each filter element to the free flow of air and channel air through the multiple filter elements in parallel effectively multiplying the surface area of the filter by the number of filter elements in the housing. The housing is preferably made from a flexible plastic material that can be formed in a variety of different shapes so that filter modules can conform to the shape of the head and be incorporated into the lining or other internal structure of a respirator mask or helmet.

Embodiments of filter modules according to the present invention provide reduced breathing resistance in comparison to comparably sized conventional air purifying filters and may be used in a variety of systems to remove vapors and airborne particulates including Chemical Warfare Agents CWAs Biological Warfare Agents Toxic Industrial Chemicals TICs and the like. Additional anticipated benefits include reduced manufacturing costs and extended filter life.

A number of embodiments of the invention defined by the following claims have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications to the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the invention which is limited only by the following claims.

