---

title: MeetMe assistant
abstract: In some embodiments, a future availability system may include one or more of the following features: (a) a memory having, (i) a future availability program that allows a caller to obtain future availability information about a call recipient if the caller has been designated by the recipient to have access to the future availability data, (ii) program that notifies the caller through a method chosen by the caller when the call recipient's availability changes (b) a processor coupled to the memory that executes the future availability program, (c) an inference engine located on the memory that stores information about the call recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08054961&OS=08054961&RS=08054961
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications, Inc.
number: 08054961
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
This invention relates to telecommunications systems. In particular this invention relates to automated assistants. More particularly this invention relates to the use of presence based communication systems that allows outside parties to discover a user s future availability.

Large enterprises receive numerous telephone calls each of which must be routed in accordance with callers instructions. Calls typically are routed by a human operator or an automated call routing system commonly referred to as an automated attendant or autoattendant . Human operators typically route calls accurately and efficiently but at a relatively high cost. Autoattendant systems on the other hand typically are inexpensive to implement and function very quickly.

Traditionally autoattendants play an announcement to the caller and prompt a caller to make one of multiple selections using a voice response unit. For example the caller may be prompted to dial the extension of the party being called. The caller also may be given other options such as leaving a voice message or accessing a directory of names if the extension of the called party is not known. Some early automated telephone directories required the caller to spell the name of the called party using a telephone dual tone multifrequency DTMF keypad. Most recent autoattendant systems are voice enabled allowing callers to be routed to a desired call destination simply by speaking the name of the call destination. In these systems an autoattendant answers an incoming call and asks the caller to speak the name of the party or department being called. The autoattendant includes a speaker independent speech recognition engine that identifies and translates a received speech signal into name data. The autoattendant obtains a telephone number corresponding to the translated name data from a telephone number directory based on the translated name data and routes the call to that telephone number.

Presence based communications applications are entering the mainstream telecommunications environment. In such applications a user maintains one or more contact lists of other parties whose presence status is to be monitored and displayed to the user. If the other party is determined to be present the user s contact list will display the available status. The user can then contact the other party for example via a telephone call.

The existing presence based real time communication systems allow users to determine how and where to receive incoming calls. Further users of a presence based communication system are able to obtain another user s future availability with a Tell Me When feature which sends a message to the user that the other user is able to be contacted. Outside callers have been able to get a general sense for how to contact an individual at a later time by the call recipient setting an announcement detailing how to get a hold of them at a later time. However presently presence based communication systems do not allow for an outside party to obtain a call recipient s future voice or calendar availability. It is possible for a user to leave his er future availability in a specific announcement to be given to a caller when they call. However this must be done manually by the user and must be changed each time the user s future availability changes. Further this manual system does not account for time zone changes. For example if the caller is in EST Eastern Standard Time and the recipient is in PCT Pacific Coast Time .

Therefore it is desirable to have a system that allows a user outside of a presence based telecommunications system to obtain the future availability of a call recipient.

These and other drawbacks in the prior art are overcome in large part by a system and method according to embodiments of the present invention.

In some embodiments a future availability system may include one or more of the following features a a memory having i a future availability program that allows a caller to obtain future availability information about a call recipient if the caller has been designated by the recipient to have access to the future availability data b a processor coupled to the memory that executes the future availability program c an inference engine located on the memory that stores information about the call recipient.

In some embodiments a method for future availability screening may include one or more of the following steps a detecting a call from a caller b determining if the caller qualifies to obtain a recipient s future availability data c determining if the caller would like to obtain the recipient s future availability data d inputting inference engine rule data e transferring the caller to voicemail if they do not qualify to obtain the recipient s future availability data f transferring the call to a future availability assistant if the caller qualifies to obtain the recipient s future data g informing the caller of the recipient s future availability if the caller qualifies to have the recipient s future availability data and desires to have the recipient s future availability data and h determining if the caller would like to initiate a Tell Me When action on the recipient to be notified when the recipient is available for conversation.

In some embodiments a machine readable medium having machine executable instructions may include one or more of the following features a detection instructions that determine an arrival of an incoming call b qualification instructions that determine if a caller has authority to access a call recipient s future availability c access instructions that provide the caller with the call recipient s future availability if the caller has authority to access the call recipient s future availability and d rule instructions that allow the call recipient to input call handling rules including all callers that can have access to the call recipient s future availability.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not necessarily restrictive of the invention as claimed. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification illustrate an embodiment of the invention and together with the general description serve to explain the principles of the invention.

The following discussion is presented to enable a person skilled in the art to make and use the present teachings. Various modifications to the illustrated embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the present teachings. Thus the present teachings are not intended to be limited to embodiments shown but are to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. The following detailed description is to be read with reference to the figures in which like elements in different figures have like reference numerals. The figures which are not necessarily to scale depict selected embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the present teachings. Skilled artisans will recognize the examples provided herein have many useful alternatives and fall within the scope of the present teachings.

Embodiments of the present invention disclose a presence based telecommunications assistant that provides outside parties including parties outside of the presence based telecommunications network with a Tell Me When callback capability that includes indication of a user s future availability. The assistant would consider all aspects of the user s rules automation and calendar information.

Currently parties external to a presence based telecommunications system do not have the capability to query the future availability of users of the presence based telecommunications system. A MeetMe Assistant could allow a presence based telecommunications user to specify who has the privilege to query the user s future information.

 MeetMe Assistant could have an interface that would accept information from a caller such as caller interaction using a DTMF keypad or through voice to enter the name of the user sought. MeetMe assistant could also have an inference engine to determine the user s future availability. A future availability could be inferred from the inference engine based upon a user s current presence status what the user has published in the form of a calendar and what communication rules the user has configured. Since rules may be assigned individually access to the future availability can be based on who the requestor is and the relation between the user and the requester. MeetMe assistant could also be able to resolve time differentials between the requestor and the user. The assistant could convert the future availability date time information of the user to the requestor s time zone. Further a MeetMe assistant could be implemented into currently existing personal auto attendants.

Turning now to the drawings and with particular attention to a diagram schematically illustrating a multi modal presence based telecommunications system according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. Telecommunications system includes real time communication capabilities messaging capabilities network business applications and collaboration applications . Real time communication can include for example voice video or cellular. Messaging includes e mail instant messaging short messaging service SMS or other text based services. Business applications can include for example Customer Relationship Management CRM and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP software packages. Collaboration applications can include conferencing whiteboarding and document sharing applications.

In addition a multi modal presence feature according to embodiments of the present invention can provide presence services including history and scheduling information aggregated across various media and .

It is noted that while illustrated as a multi modal presence system embodiments of the present invention are equally applicable to system employing only single presence based media. Thus the figures are exemplary only.

Referring now to a diagram of an exemplary telecommunications or conference system in some embodiments is shown. As shown system may include a local area network LAN . LAN may be implemented using a TCP IP network and may implement voice or multimedia over IP using for example the Session Initiation Protocol SIP . Operably coupled to local area network is a server . Server may include one or more controllers which may be embodied as one or more microprocessors and memory for storing application programs and data. Controller may implement an instant messaging system . Instant messaging system may be embodied as a SIP proxy register and SIMPLE Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions clients or other instant messaging system Microsoft Windows Messenger software . In some embodiments if possible and practicable instant messaging system may implement or be part of the Microsoft.Net environment and or Real Time Communications server or protocol RTC .

In addition in some embodiments a collaboration system may be provided which may be part of an interactive suite of applications run by controller . In addition an action prompt module may be provided which detects occurrences of action cues and causes action prompt windows to be launched at client devices . Collaboration system may allow users of the system to become participants in a conference or collaboration session.

Also coupled to LAN is a gateway which may be implemented as a gateway to a private branch exchange PBX the public switched telephone network PSTN or any of a variety of other networks such as a wireless or cellular network. In addition one or more LAN telephones and one or more computers may be operably coupled to LAN . In some embodiments one or more other types of networks may be used for communication between server computers telephones gateway etc. For example in some embodiments a communications network might be or include the Internet the World Wide Web or some other public or private computer cable telephone client server peer to peer or communications network or intranet. In some embodiments a communications network also can include other public and or private wide area networks local area networks wireless networks data communication networks or connections intranets routers satellite links microwave links cellular or telephone networks radio links fiber optic transmission lines ISDN lines T1 lines DSL connections etc. Moreover as used herein communications include those enabled by wired or wireless technology. Also in some embodiments one or more client devices e.g. the computers may be connected directly to the server .

The computers may be personal computers implementing the Windows XP operating system and thus Windows Messenger instant messenger system or SIP clients running on the Linux or other operating system running voice over IP clients or other clients capable of participating in voice or multimedia conferences. In addition computers may include telephony and other multimedia messaging capability using for example peripheral cameras Web cams microphones and speakers not shown or peripheral telephony handsets such as the Optipoint handset available from Siemens Corporation. In other embodiments one or more of the computers may be implemented as wireless telephones digital telephones or personal digital assistants PDAs . Thus the figures are exemplary only. As shown with reference to computer the computers may include one or more controllers such as Pentium type microprocessors and storage for applications and other programs.

Finally computers may implement interaction services in some embodiments. Interaction services may allow for interworking of phone buddy list instant messaging presence collaboration calendar and other applications. In addition interaction services may allow access to the collaboration system or module and action prompt module of server .

Turning now to a functional model diagram illustrating collaboration system is shown. More particularly is a logical diagram illustrating a particular embodiment of a collaboration server . Server includes a plurality of application modules and a communication broker CB module . One or more of the application modules and communication broker module may include an inference engine i.e. a rules or heuristics based artificial intelligence engine for implementing functions in some embodiments. Interference engine is discussed in more detail below. In addition server provides interfaces such as APIs application programming interfaces to SIP phones or other SIP User Agents and gateways interworking units .

According to the embodiment illustrated broker module includes a basic services module an advanced services module an automation module and a toolkit module . Automation module implements an automation framework for ISVs independent software vendors that allow products software etc. provided by such ISVs to be used with or created by server .

Basic services module functions to implement for example phone support PBX interfaces call features and management as well as Windows Messaging software and RTC add ins when necessary. The phone support features allow maintenance of and access to buddy lists and provide presence status.

Advanced services module implements function such as presence multipoint control unit or multi channel conferencing unit MCU recording and the like. MCU functions are used for voice conferencing and support ad hoc and dynamic conference creation from a buddy list following the SIP conferencing model for ad hoc conferences. In certain embodiments support for G.711 G.723.1 or other codecs is provided. Further in some embodiments the MCU can distribute media processing over multiple servers using the MEGACO H.248 protocol

Presence features provide device context for both SIP registered devices and user defined non SIP devices. Various user contexts such as In Meeting On Vacation In the Office etc. can be provided for. In addition voice e mail and instant messaging availability may be provided across the user s devices. The presence feature enables real time call control using presence information e.g. to choose a destination based on the presence of a user s device s . In addition various components have a central repository for presence information and for changing and querying presence information. In addition the presence module provides a user interface for presenting the user with presence information.

In addition broker module may include the ComResponse platform available from Siemens Information and Communication Networks Inc. The ComResponse platform features include speech recognition speech to text and text to speech and allows for creation of scripts for applications. The speech recognition and speech to text features may be used by collaboration summarization unit and action prompt module .

In addition real time call control is provided by a SIP API associated with basic services module . That is calls can be intercepted in progress and real time actions performed on them including directing those calls to alternate destinations based on rules and or other stimuli. SIP API also provides call progress monitoring capabilities and for reporting status of such calls to interested applications. SIP API also provides for call control from the user interface.

Toolkit module may provide tools APIs scripting language interfaces software modules libraries software drivers objects etc. that may be used by software developers or programmers to build or integrate additional or complementary applications.

According to the embodiment illustrated the application modules include a collaboration module an interaction center module a mobility module an interworking services module a collaboration summarization module and an action prompt module .

Collaboration module allows for creation modification or deletion of a collaboration or conference session for a group of participants or other users. Collaboration module may further allow for invoking a voice conference from any client device. In addition the collaboration module can launch a multi media conferencing package such as the WebEX package. It is noted that the multi media conferencing can be handled by other products applications devices etc.

Interaction center provides a telephony interface for both subscribers and guests. Subscriber access functions include calendar access and voicemail and e mail access. The calendar access allows the subscriber to accept decline or modify appointments as well as block out particular times. The voicemail and e mail access allows the subscriber to access and sort messages.

Similarly the guest access feature allows the guest access to voicemail for leaving messages and calendar functions for scheduling canceling and modifying appointments with subscribers. Further the guest access feature allows a guest user to access specific data meant for them e.g. receiving e mail and fax back etc.

Mobility module provides for message forwarding and one number access across media and message morphing across media for the subscriber. Further various applications can send notification messages to a variety of destinations such as e mails instant messages pagers and the like. In addition a user can set rules that mobility module uses to define media handling such as e mail voice and instant messaging handling. Such rules specify data and associated actions. For example a rule could be defined to say If I m traveling and I get a voicemail or e mail marked Urgent then page me. 

Further collaboration summarization module is used to identify or highlight portions of a multimedia conference and configure the portions sequentially for later playback. The portions may be stored or identified based on recording cues either preset or settable by one or more of the participants in the conference such as a moderator. The recording cues may be based on vocalized keywords identified by the voice recognition unit of the ComResponse module or may be invoked by special controls or video or whiteboarding or other identifiers.

The action prompt module similarly allows a user to set action cues which cause the launch of an action prompt window at the user s associated client device . In response the client devices can then perform various functions in accordance with the action cues.

With reference to one implementation of a future availability assistant system in an embodiment of the present invention is shown. Future availability assistant system is described with the following example. Jane has her presence status set to On business trip . Therefore to all presence based telecommunications users it will appear as if Jane is not in the office. Further to all outside parties they will be unable to contact Jane as she is on a business trip. For outside parties Jane may leave a message on her voicemail indicating she is currently unavailable on a business trip. Embodiments of the present invention disclose just how all parties inside and outside could find out when is the next time they could contact Jane or set up a Tell Me When function with Jane s assistant to contact the parties the next time Jane was available for conversation.

Jane can interact with network . Jane may be any entity that may be associated with presence information including a human being an electronic device a computer program or other entity. Jane may have one or more presence states that may be relative to one or more endpoints. Table 1 shows examples of presence states and descriptions of the presence states.

The presence states shown in Table 1 may be applicable to an individual subscriber. The states above are exemplary. Different presence systems can have different states. Embodiments of the present invention can be easily adapted to the states available in a particular presence system. The presence states may also be applicable to other entities including aggregate entities such as workgroups group mailboxes or group phone connections. For example a presence state may reflect the availability of a group of customer service representatives in a complaint department. When no representative is available to handle the call the associated presence state may be On the Phone . The presence information may reflect the availability of at least one member of the group or may reflect other presence information applicable to the group as a whole.

Jack may not be a presence based telecommunications user or he could simply be an outside party to network . However Jack may be a presence based telecommunications user. For purposes of the following description Jack is described as being an outside third party to presence based network . Embodiments of the present invention disclose a way for the presence state communicated for an individual to be set to different values for specific recipients of that presence information. It is noted that a user has the ability to select certain individual s or group s of contacts to present their presence differently then to others. This can be controlled by rules or other presence influencing parameters. So for example a user might want to indicate to their direct reports and their manager to be available even though they are busy in a meeting which is the presence indication to other users. This may not only influence their presence status seen by other users but can also influence the real time communication handling when others try to reach the user. The handling of the incoming communication may in this case get handled differently for the user s direct reports and manager versus other users. These rules can be set using a graphical user interface where the user makes their selections as to presence status but also as to who can see the presence status as well as other items such as calendar data.

Jack is dealing with an important and urgent matter and needs to talk with Jane so Jack chooses to call Jane . Upon receiving Jack s call Jane s personal assistant answers the call. Personal assistant could be located on server or on Jane s computer . Future availability engine could then initiate a conversation with Jack to ascertain if Jack would like to initiate a Tell me when callback and or obtain indication of Jane s future availability. The engine s communication with Jack could be by email IM SMS pop up display message or similar visual indication or by voice using text to speech software. In its simplistic form future availability engine prompts Jack to specify whether he would like to initiate a Tell Me When callback and or have an indication as to Jane s future availability. The Tell Me When feature would allow engine to notify Jack when Jane is available to be contacted. The indication into Jane s future availability would allow Jack to see Jane s future availability based upon Jane s rules calendar information etc. all set within inference engine .

Jack would be allowed to request a Tell Me When feature or access to Jane s future availability through gateway . Through gateway future availability engine can prompt Jack to select a Tell Me When callback feature and or request Jane s future availability. Alternatively future availability engine can engage Jane with an IM instant messaging session thus allowing Jane to intervene and influence whether Jack can have access to Jane s future availability. After ascertaining Jack s preferences be it Tell Me When and or Jane s future availability future availability engine can store Jack s Tell Me When request in memory and or access inference engine to discover Jane s future availability. Rules for the purpose of this disclosure will take the real time presence information of for example other users that have been assigned by the user as their delegates user location time zone device media capability calendar context and other user definable conditions in consideration to determine what options are being offered to the caller and how to most effectively deal with the call for further processing routing. Future availability engine also accounts for Jack s time zone. For example if Jack is in the Eastern Time Zone ETZ and Jane is in the Pacific Time Zone PTZ future availability engine will discover Jane s future availability in pacific time and add four hours so that Jack can see Jane s availability in eastern time.

With reference to a flow chart diagram of a future availability system according to embodiments of the present invention is shown. It is fully contemplated that other implementations of a future availability system could be implemented without departing from the spirit of the invention. At state a user such Jane could input their future availability handling rules that are received by future availability assistant . These rules could be entered either directly inputting presence and calendar information or indirectly being on the phone . Preferences could also include a list of phone numbers which can have access to future availability data. Inside rules a user can also set how the caller will interact with assistant . For example the recipient could instruct future availability engine to obtain information directly from the caller before determining if the caller can have access to future availability information.

At state program detects that a call has been placed to the recipient. At state program determines if the caller satisfies initial criteria for access to the recipient s future availability information. If the caller does not have authorization to the recipient s future availability or is not allowed to set a Tell Me When action then engine would forward the caller to voicemail at state . If a caller is on the caller s list of people to have access to future availability information or allowed to set a Tell Me When action the caller is transferred to future availability engine at state . Future availability engine determines if the caller would like to know the recipient s future availability at state . If the caller does not wish to know the recipient s future availability then engine proceeds to ask the caller if they would like to set a Tell Me When action for the recipient at state . If the caller does wish to know the recipient s future availability then engine proceeds to state where engine relays the future availability to the caller. As stated above the engine s communication with the caller could be by email IM SMS pop up display message or similar visual indication or by voice using text to speech software or through a callback which can be determined by the recipient. The callback option will result in a call being placed automatically between the two parties once the called party s presence state change triggers the option specified by the caller. E.g. if the caller had specified callback option on voice availability the caller would receive a callback as soon as the called party s voice presence status becomes available

After the caller is given the recipient s future availability program proceeds to state where the caller is given the option to also set a Tell Me When action for the recipient. If the caller does not wish to initiate a Tell Me When action then program can terminate the call or as an alternative offer the caller the opportunity to leave a voice message at state . If the caller would like to initiate a Tell Me When action program can proceed to state where engine can accept Tell Me When rule data from the caller. This rule data could include a way for engine to contact the caller when the recipient is available for conversation. The caller could specify the option based on the specific voice availability status of the called party change in the voice availability status specific present state e.g. ON VACATION and present state change e.g. any change from ON VACATION . Once the caller is finished program could then proceed to state where the call could be terminated or the caller could leave a voice message.

Input device and display are also in communication with communication bus . Any known input device may be used as input device including a keyboard mouse touch pad voice recognition system or any combination of these devices. Input device may be used by a user to input information and commands and select a rules for inference engine .

Display may be an integral or separate CRT display a flat panel display or the like. Display is generally used to output graphics and text to an operator in response to commands issued by microprocessor . Display may display presentation data and the like which is used during the future availability process.

RAM Random Access Memory is connected to communication bus to provide microprocessor with fast data storage and retrieval. In this regard processor executable process steps being executed by microprocessor are typically stored temporarily in RAM and executed therefrom by microprocessor . ROM Read Only Memory in contrast may provide storage from which data can be retrieved but to which data cannot be stored. Accordingly ROM may be used to store invariant process steps and other data such as basic input output instructions and data used during system boot up or to control input device . One or both of RAM and ROM may communicate directly with microprocessor instead of over communication bus or on separate dedicated busses.

Data storage device stores among other data processor executable process steps of future availability program discussed with respect to . The process steps and program code of program and the like may be read from a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD ROM a Zip disk a magnetic tape or a signal encoding the process steps program code and then stored in data storage device in a raw compressed un compiled and or encrypted format. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with processor executable process steps for implementation of the processes described herein. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware firmware and software.

Also illustrated is a network interface which may be a wired or wireless Ethernet interface a modem interface and so on. In utilizing the various embodiments of the invention the network interface may be connected to or to provide or access a high speed connection to the Internet or an Intranet providing access to the Internet or similar networks. Using such a network or networks computing device can communicate identifiers of destination parties to a mobile application server.

Stored in data storage device may also be other elements that may be necessary for operation of computing device such as other applications other data files a network server an operating system a database management system and device drivers for allowing microprocessor to interface with external devices. These elements are known to those skilled in the art and are therefore not described in detail herein.

It is believed that the present invention and many of its attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

