---

title: Fluorous tagging and scavenging reactants and methods of synthesis and use thereof
abstract: The present invention includes methods and compositions for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one fluorous compound to produce a fluorous tagged organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the fluorous tagged organic compound can then be utilized to separate the fluorous organic compound from untagged reagents, reactants, catalysts and/or products derived therefrom. The resultant fluorous tagged organic compound can be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations, wherein the fluorous nature of the tagged compound is utilized to increase the ease of separation of the fluorous tagged organic compound from untagged reagents, reactants, catalysts and/or products derived therefrom, after each chemical transformation. The chemical transformations result in a second fluorous tagged organic compound wherein the fluorous nature of the second fluorous tagged organic compound can then be reduced by removing the fluorous group therefrom, thereby producing a second organic compound that may be employed as a pharmaceutical compound or intermediate, or a combinatorial library component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07576245&OS=07576245&RS=07576245
owner: Fluorous Technologies Incorporated
number: 07576245
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060124
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 395 067 entitled New Fluorous Tagging Scavenging Reactants and Methods of Synthesis and Use Thereof filed Jul. 11 2002 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 396 952 entitled New Fluorous Tagging Reagents and Methods of Synthesis and Use Thereof filed Jul. 18 2002 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 442 712 entitled Fluorous Synthesis of Disubstituted Pyrimidines filed Jan. 27 2003 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 442 762 entitled FluoMar A Fluorous Version of the Marshall Resin for Solution phase Library Synthesis filed Jan. 27 2003 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 442 840 entitled Fluorous Electrophilic Scavengers for Solution Phase Parallel Synthesis filed Jan. 27 2003 which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. This application is a division of United States Non Provisional application Ser. No. 10 617 431 filed Jul. 11 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 060 850 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under grants 1 R44 GM67326 01 and 1 R43 GM066415 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to fluorous tagging compounds and fluorous scavenging compounds and to methods of increasing the fluorous nature of organic compounds by reacting them with a fluorous tagging or scavenging compound.

It is generally the case that organic compounds must be synthesized as pure substances through well planned reactions and scrupulous separation purification. In fields such as drug discovery catalyst design and new material development tens of thousands of organic compounds must be synthesized and tested to discover a few active ones. In the pharmaceutical industry for example synthesizing large numbers of compounds in the traditional way is ineffective relative to the rapid emergence of new biological targets. A major factor limiting the productivity of orthodox solution liquid phase organic synthesis is the time consuming process of purification. High throughput organic synthesis therefore preferably integrates organic reactions with rapid purification separation procedures.

The attachment of tags to organic reaction components has become commonplace in combinatorial and parallel high throughput syntheses to facilitate the separation process. See for example Curran D. P. Strategy level Separations in Organic Synthesis From Planning to Practice 1998 37 1175 1196 Flynn D. Phase trafficking Reagents and Phase switching Strategies for Parallel Synthesis 1999 19 408 432. The process of tagging excess reagents reactants catalysts or byproducts for their separation from the desired products is often called scavenging or quenching . In a common embodiment of tagging a substrate for example a small organic molecule is tagged with a separation tag typically comprised of a polymeric bead in a technique known as solid phase synthesis . See for example Seneci P. John Wiley and Sons New York 2000. Conducting one or more reactions on the tagged substrate or subsequent intermediates with untagged reagents reactants catalysts etc. then provides a tagged product. The presence of the separation tag allows easy separation of the tagged intermediates and or product from untagged reagents reactants catalysts and or products derived therefrom. For example simple filtration is usually used to separate the polymer bead tagged intermediate or product from solvent byproduct and or any unreacted reagent.

Because reactions with polymer bound substrates and intermediates are typically heterogeneous large excesses of reagents are often needed to drive reactions to completion. This adds to the expense of a reaction and can also lead to unwanted tagged byproducts. Even when using excesses of reagents solid phase synthesis methods often do not match their solution phase counterparts in terms of speed yield scope and cleanliness of products. Furthermore other than by filtration it is not usually possible to further purify polymer bound intermediates and products. In other words polymer bound intermediates or products cannot be separated from bound byproducts without removal from the polymer and subsequent purification. Accordingly reactions on the solid phase that occur with broad scope in quantitative yield so that no polymer bound byproducts are formed are the target of much research.

In a common embodiment of scavenging a solution phase reaction is conducted under standard conditions and then a scavenger or quencher is added and allowed to react with one or more reaction components that have been targeted for separation from the desired products. The most commonly used scavengers are solid phase materials such as polymers or bonded phases of silica. See for example Kaldor S. W. Siegel M. G. 1997 1 101 106 Shuttleworth S. J. Allin S. M. Sharma P. K. 1997 1217 1239 Ley S. V. et al. 1 2000 3815 4195 Eames J. Watkinson M. 2001 1213 1224.

Like reactions with polymer bound substrates reactions with solid phase scavengers are almost always heterogeneous. Large excesses of solid phase scavengers are often used to facilitate the scavenging reaction yet the speed and cleanliness of solution phase reactions still often cannot be duplicated. Solution phase scavengers with appropriate acid or basic functionality can be used but this approach requires that the desired products be acid or base stable or both and limits the functionality that can be present.

Recently fluorous synthetic and separation techniques have attracted the interests of organic chemists. In fluorous synthetic techniques reaction components are typically attached to fluorous groups such as perfluoroalkyl groups to facilitate the separation of products. Reactions are carried out in the solution phase so solubility and reaction problems inherent with solid phase synthetic techniques do not arise. In general fluorous tagged or scavenged molecules partition preferentially into a fluorous phase while non tagged non scavenged molecules partition into an organic phase. Although fluorous synthetic and or separation techniques are promising such techniques are currently limited by a lack of available and suitable fluorous tags and scavengers.

Accordingly further improvements would be a welcome addition to the art wherein fluorous tagging and scavenging compounds and methods for their synthesis and use in increasing the fluorous nature of organic compounds are developed.

The present invention includes methods and compositions for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one fluorous compound to produce a fluorous tagged organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the fluorous tagged organic compound can then be utilized to separate the fluorous organic compound from untagged reagents reactants catalysts and or products derived therefrom. The resultant fluorous tagged organic compound can be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations wherein the fluorous nature of the tagged compound is utilized to increase the ease of separation of the fluorous tagged organic compound from untagged reagents reactants catalysts and or products derived therefrom after each chemical transformation. The chemical transformations result in a second fluorous tagged organic compound wherein the fluorous nature of the second fluorous tagged organic compound can then be reduced by removing the fluorous group therefrom thereby producing a second organic compound that may be employed as a pharmaceutical compound or intermediate or a combinatorial library component.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the formula X CRR CH W CH R I Ris a fluorous group. The group X on fluorous compound I is either a leaving group a nucleophilic group or an electrophilic group. The substituents Rand Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen a linear alkyl group a branched alkyl group a phenyl group a substituted phenyl group having the structure CH W or fluorous substituted phenyl groups having the structure of either CH W CH R or CH W CH R . The integer values for m m and m are from 1 to 5 the integer values for n n and n are from 0 to 5 p p and p have values of either 0 or 1 and q has an integer value from 0 to 5. W is an atom or a grouping of atoms having the structure O S NR CRR or SiRR wherein when W is SiRRand Rand Rare each hydrogen X is not one of Br N imidazolyl or OH. W is a grouping of atoms having the structure OR SR NRR CRRR or SiRRR. The substituents R R R R R R R R R and Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R and the substituents R R R R and Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5.

The organic compound has at least one functional group that reacts with group X on at least one second fluorous compound I to form at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and at least one second compound. The chemical reaction results in a first fluorous tagged organic compound with an increased fluorous nature relative to the fluorous nature of the organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound enables separating the first fluorous tagged organic compound from other compounds by use of a fluorous separation technique.

In a second embodiment the present invention provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the formula XCOCHR II wherein X is a leaving group and Rd has one of the following substructures 

The organic compound has at least one functional group that reacts with leaving group X on at least one second fluorous compound II to form at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and at least one second compound. The chemical reaction results in a first fluorous tagged organic compound with an increased fluorous nature relative to the fluorous nature of the organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound enables separating the first fluorous tagged organic compound from other compounds by use of a fluorous separation technique.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the formula RRN CH R III wherein Ris a fluorous group and n is an integer with a value from 0 to 5. RR when taken together can comprise any of the groups 

The organic compound has at least one functional group that reacts with at least one N or OH group on at least one second compound III to form at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and at least one second compound where the chemical bond may be either ionic or covalent. The chemical reaction results in a first fluorous tagged organic compound with an increased fluorous nature relative to the fluorous nature of the organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound enables separating the first fluorous tagged organic compound from other compounds by use of a fluorous separation technique.

In still another embodiment the present invention provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the formula X CH W CH R IV wherein Ris a fluorous group m has an integer value from 1 to 5 n has an integer value from 0 to 5 p is either 0 or 1 and W is an atom or grouping of atoms having the structure of O S NR CR40R or SiRR. When W is O then X can have the structure SONHNH CHO when p is 1 SH CH SH C NR CHY C O CHC O R COCl SOCl OH NCZ or SOH. When W is S NR CRR or SiRR then X can have the structure SONH SONHNH CHO when p is 1 SH CH SH C NR CHY C O CHC O R COCl SOCl OH NCZ or SOH. Z is either oxygen or sulfur. Y is either an electron withdrawing group a hydrogen or an alkyl group and Ris either hydrogen an alkyl group an aryl group or a hydroxyl group. The integer value of n is from 2 to 5. R Rand R are independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R and Rand Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R. Ris either linear alkyl branched alkyl or benzyl.

The organic compound has at least one functional group that reacts with group X on at least one second compound IV to form at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and at least one second compound. The chemical reaction results in a first fluorous tagged organic compound with an increased fluorous nature relative to the fluorous nature of the organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound enables separating the first fluorous tagged organic compound from other compounds by use of a fluorous separation technique.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the formula X CH R V wherein Ris a fluorous group and n is an integer from 0 to 5. X is a grouping of atoms having the substructure of either C CH COCl CRRSH CRRSR SOCl OC O NHNH NHC NH NH SONH SONHNH NCZ maleimide succinic anhydride or COCHCOR. R R R and Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl benzyl or CH Rand Z is either oxygen or sulfur.

The organic compound has at least one functional group that reacts with group X on at least one second compound V to form at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and at least one second compound. The chemical reaction results in a first fluorous tagged organic compound with an increased fluorous nature relative to the fluorous nature of the organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound enables separating the first fluorous tagged organic compound from other compounds by use of a fluorous separation technique.

In still a further embodiment the present invention provides a compound having the formula X CRR CH W CH R I Ris a fluorous group. The group X is either a leaving group a nucleophilic group or an Electrophilic group. The substituents Rand Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen a linear alkyl group a branched alkyl group a phenyl group a substituted phenyl group having the structure CH W or fluorous substituted phenyl groups having the structure of either CH W CH R or CH W CH R . The integer values for m m and m are from 1 to 5 the integer values for n n and n are from 0 to 5 p p and p have values of either 0 or 1 and q has an integer value from 0 to 5. W is an atom or a grouping of atoms having the structure O S NR CRR or SiRR wherein when W is SiRRand Rand Rare each hydrogen X is not one of Br N imidazolyl or OH. W is a grouping of atoms having the structure OR SR NRR CRRRor SiRRR . The substituents R R R R R R R R R and Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R and the substituents R R R R and Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5.

In yet a further embodiment the present invention provides a compound having the formula XCOCHR II wherein X is a leaving group and Rd has one of the following substructures 

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a compound having the formula RN CH R III wherein Ris a fluorous group and n is an integer with a value from 0 to 5. RR when taken together comprise any of the groups 

In another embodiment the present invention provides a compound having the formula X CH W CH R IV wherein Ris a fluorous group m has an integer value from 1 to 5 n has an integer value from 0 to 5 p is either 0 or 1 and W is an atom or grouping of atoms having the structure of O S NR CRR or SiRR. When W is O then X has the structure SONHNH CHO when p is 1 SH CH SH C NR CHY or C O CHC O R. When W is S NR CRR or SiRR then X has the structure SONH SONHNH CHO when p is 1 SH CH SH C NR CHY or C O CHC O R. Z is either oxygen or sulfur. Y is either an electron withdrawing group a hydrogen or an alkyl group and Ris a hydrogen an alkyl group an aryl group or a hydroxyl group. The integer value of n is from 2 to 5. R Rand Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R and Rand Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R. Ris linear alkyl branched alkyl or benzyl.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides a compound having the formula X CH R V wherein Ris a fluorous group and n is an integer from 0 to 5. X is a grouping of atoms having the substructure of C CH COCl.

Other than in the operating examples or where otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical values however inherently contain certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements.

Also it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein is intended to include all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of 1 to 10 is intended to include all sub ranges between and including the recited minimum value of 1 and the recited maximum value of 10 that is having a minimum value equal to or greater than 1 and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

As used herein the term fluorous when used in connection with an organic carbon containing molecule moiety or group refers generally to an organic molecule moiety or group having a domain or a portion thereof rich in carbon fluorine bonds for example fluorocarbons or perfluorocarbons fluorohydrocarbons fluorinated ethers fluorinated amines and fluorinated adamantyl groups . For example perfluorinated ether groups can have the general formula CF O CF CF wherein x y and z are integers. Perfluorinated amine groups can for example have the general formula CF NR CF CFwherein Rcan for example be CF CF wherein n is an integer. Fluorous ether groups and fluorous amine groups suitable for use in the present invention need not be perfluorinated however. The term fluorous compound thus refers generally to a compound comprising a portion rich in carbon fluorine bonds. As used herein the term perfluorocarbons refers generally to organic compounds in which all hydrogen atoms bonded to carbon atoms have been replaced by fluorine atoms. The terms fluorohydrocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons include organic compounds in which at least one hydrogen atom bonded to a carbon atom has been replaced by a fluorine atom. A few examples of suitable fluorous groups R for use in the present invention include but are not limited to CF CF CF CF C CF CF CFCF CF CFCFOCFCFOCF CFCF NCFCF CFCFCF fluorous adamantly groups and or mixtures thereof.

Perfluoroalkyl groups and hydrofluoroalkyl groups are well suited for use in the present invention. For example Rcan be a linear perfluoroalkyl group of 3 to 20 carbons a branched perfluoroalkyl group of 3 to 20 carbons and a hydrofluoroalkyl group of 3 to 20 carbons. Hydrofluoroalkyl groups may typically include up to one hydrogen atom for each two fluorine atoms. In the case of perfluoroalkyl groups and hydrofluoroalkyl groups Rmay be a linear perfluoroalkyl group of 6 to 12 carbons a branched perfluoroalkyl group of 6 to 12 carbons and a hydrofluoroalkyl group of 6 to 12 carbons.

The molecular weight of the fluorous tag of the present invention typically does not exceed about 2 500 g mole may be such as to not exceed 2 000 g mole and may be such as to not exceed 1 500 g mole. In addition compounds subject to the present invention may bear more than one fluorous tag each of which have the molecular weight as provided herein.

As used herein the terms tagging and scavenging refer generally to attaching a fluorous moiety or group referred to as a fluorous tagging moiety tagging group or fluorous tag to a compound to create a fluorous tagged compound . Separation of the tagged compounds of the present invention is achieved by using fluorous separation techniques that are based upon differences between among the fluorous nature of a mixture of compounds. As used herein the term fluorous separation technique refers generally to a method that is used to separate mixtures containing fluorous molecules or organic molecules bearing fluorous domains or tags from each other and or from non fluorous compounds based predominantly on differences in the fluorous nature of molecules for example size and or structure of a fluorous molecule or domain or the absence thereof . Fluorous separation techniques include but are not limited to fluorous liquid liquid extraction fluorous solid phase extraction and fluorous chromatography. See for example Danielson N. D. et al. 1991 544 187 199 Curran D. P. 2001 9 1488 Curran D. P. Fluorous Techniques for the Synthesis of Organic Molecules A Unified Strategy for Reaction and Separation. In M. Shibasaki J. Fraser Stoddart and F. V gtle eds. Wiley VCH Weinheim 2000 25. Examples of suitable fluorocarbon bonded phases include but are not limited to FluoroFlash columns commercially available from Fluorous Technologies Inc. Pittsburgh Pa. Fluofix and Fluophase columns commercially available from Keystone Scientific Inc. Bellefonte Pa. and FluoroSep RP Octyl commercially available from ES Industries Berlin N.J. . Other fluorous separation techniques suitable for the present invention include liquid liquid based separation methods such as liquid liquid extraction or countercurrent distribution with a fluorous solvent and an organic solvent. Several fluorous reaction and separation techniques are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 156 896 5 859 247 and 5 777 121 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. In addition several fluorous reaction and separation techniques are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 09 506 779 09 565 087 09 583 247 09 932 903 09 977 944 and 10 094 345 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. As used herein the term catch and release refers generally to the process of tagging catching a compound with a tag and then later detagging releasing the tagged compound.

As used herein the terms alkyl aryl and other groups refer generally to both unsubstituted and substituted groups unless specified to the contrary. Unless otherwise specified alkyl groups are hydrocarbon groups and are typically C C that is having 1 to 15 carbon atoms alkyl groups and may be C Calkyl groups and can be branched or unbranched acyclic or cyclic. The above definition of an alkyl group and other definitions apply also when the group is a substituent on another group. The term aryl refers to phenyl Ph or naphthyl substituted or unsubstituted.

The groups set forth above can be substituted with a wide variety of substituents. For example alkyl groups may be substituted with a group or groups including but not limited to halide s . As used herein the terms halide or halo refer to fluoro chloro bromo and iodo. Aryl groups may be substituted with a group or groups including but not limited to halide s alkyl group s cyano group s and or nitro group s and or mixtures thereof. Halide substituents for both alkyl and aryl groups are typically F and Cl.

As used herein the term functional group refers generally to an atom or a group of atoms that has similar chemical properties whenever it occurs in different compounds and confers a specific reactivity to the molecule in which it is contained. For example functional groups include but are not limited to alcohols thiols amines aldehydes ketones sulfonic acids aryl halides phenols hydrazines amino esters acid chlorides sulfonyl chlorides acid anhydrides chloroformates isocyanates isothiocyanates imines halides boronic acids hydroxylamines organometallic reagents carboxylic acids esters amides and other derivatives of carboxylic acids. The term scaffold as used herein refers generally to a skeletal framework of carbon atoms in certain cases interspersed with heteroatoms such as but not limited to nitrogen oxygen sulfur or phosphorous which is common to all compounds within a specific class of reagents. As used herein the term protecting group refers generally to a grouping of atoms that can be readily attached to an organic functional group such that the organic functional group is rendered less reactive to subsequent chemical transformations. It is a necessary aspect of a protecting group that the grouping of atoms can be readily removed from the substrate after the subsequent chemical transformations to reveal the organic functional group.

As used herein the term nucleophilic group refers generally to an electron rich ion atom or group of atoms that can donate a pair of electrons to another atomic nucleus to form a covalent bond or forms an ionic bond with a positively charged ion. The term electrophilic group refers generally to an electron deficient ion atom or group of atoms that accepts a pair of electrons from a nucleophile to form a covalent bond or forms an ionic bond with a negatively charged ion.

As used herein the term leaving group refers generally to an atom or a group of atoms that have the potential to leave a reacting molecule as a relatively stable weakly basic molecule or ion when the reacting molecule is attacked by a nucleophile. Attack by the nucleophile results in the formation of a new carbon nucleophile bond and cleavage of the carbon leaving group bond. Examples of leaving groups include but are not limited to halide N CN OR ONH ONHR ONR OCR OCOR OCNR SR OC S R SCR SC O SR SCSR OCSR OC S OR SCOR RSO RSO ROSO ROSO RPO ROPO an N imidazolyl group an N triazolyl group an N benzotriazolyl group a benzotriazolyloxy group an imidazolyloxy group an N imidazolinone group an N imidazolone group an N imidazolinethione group an N succinimidyl group an N phthalimidyl group an N succinimidyloxy group an N phthalimidyloxy group ON C CN R and a 2 pyridyloxy group where R is an alkyl aryl benzyl or perfluoroalkyl substituent.

As used herein the term electron withdrawing group refers generally to an electron deficient atom or group of atoms that when attached to an aromatic ring withdraws electron density from the aromatic electron system. Examples of electron withdrawing groups include but are not limited to halides nitro group s cyano group s carbonyl group s and sulfonate group s . Electron withdrawing groups may typically be a chloro fluoro nitro and cyano group.

The present invention includes methods and compositions for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one fluorous compound to produce a fluorous tagged organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the fluorous tagged organic compound can then be utilized to separate the fluorous tagged organic compound from untagged reagents reactants catalysts and or products derived therefrom. The resultant fluorous tagged organic compound may be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations wherein the fluorous nature of the tagged products is utilized to increase the ease of separation of the fluorous tagged organic compound from untagged reagents reactants catalysts and or products derived therefrom after each chemical transformation. The chemical transformations produce a second fluorous tagged organic compound wherein the fluorous nature of the second fluorous tagged organic compound can then be reduced by removing the fluorous group therefrom thereby producing a second organic compound whose uses include but are not limited to as pharmaceutical compounds or intermediates and combinatorial library components.

For the further development of fluorous chemistry into a practical strategy in for example combinatorial and parallel synthesis a variety of fluorous tags must be made available. The present invention provides fluorous tags and scavengers that can be prepared in large quantity can be installed and removed if necessary from a substrate using mild reaction conditions and can be recyclable after cleavage. In addition the fluorous tags of the present invention are tolerant as a group to a wide range of reaction conditions such that an appropriate tag can be chosen which is amenable to substantially any given sequence of reactions.

The resulting fluorous tagged compound can be used in a wide variety of fluorous reaction and can be easily separated from untagged reagents reactants catalysts and or products derived therefrom using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The tagging compounds of the present invention are particularly suitable for tagging or scavenging of compounds bearing a variety of functional groups.

In a first embodiment the present invention provides compounds for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound having the general structure of X CRR CH W CH R I that possesses a fluorous substituted benzyl scaffold in which X can be a leaving group a nucleophilic group or an electrophilic group wherein the benzylic carbon can be substituted by a variety of potential substituents Rand R. The fluorous compounds are useful for the tagging a variety of functional groups in either tagging or scavenging processes. Functionality reactive with fluorous compound I include but are not limited to alcohols amines thiols carboxylic acids sufonic acids aryl halides acid halides acid anhydrides chloroformates aldehydes isocyanates isothiocyanates sulfonylchlorides acidic phenols activated esters imines benzyl halides allyl halides metals such as Ni Pd etc. oxidation agents carbocations excess acid hydrazines and or mixtures thereof.

The phenyl ring of fluorous compound I may have up to 5 substitutions more typically 1 to 3 substitutions wherein the substituent s on the phenyl ring have an increased fluorous nature. The substituent s consist of a fluorous group R as defined above which may be attached to the phenyl ring by an methylene spacer consisting of n carbon atoms where n is an integer from 0 to 5 and a possible substituent W when p is 1 situated between the phenyl ring and the methylene spacer. W may be either carbon or a heteroatom having the structure O S NR CRR or SiRR wherein R R and Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH Rand Rand Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl and CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5.

Where component X in fluorous compound 1 is a leaving group then at least one fluorous compound I reacts with at least one nucleophilic organic compound via an organic reaction mechanism potentially of the S1 or S2 type. The nucleophilic atom of the organic compound replaces the leaving group X forming at least one covalent bond between the organic compound and CRR CH W CH R .

Component X in fluorous compound I may be a leaving group that is a halide methane sulfonate p toluenesulfonate trifluoromethanesulfonate or perfluoroalkylsulfonate.

When X is a leaving group the groups Rand Rin fluorous compound I may be both hydrogen except for when both X is bromine and W is silicon or one or both of Rand Rcan be alkyl. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzyl tagging reagents. Like traditional benzyl reagents the present compound can react with alcohols thiols amines carboxylic acids sulfonic acids and other nucleophiles. For a general discussion of the use of non fluorous benzyl reagents see Greene T. W. Wuts P. G. M. 3rd ed. Wiley Interscience New York 1999 and Kocienski P. Thieme Stuttgart 1994. However the fluorous benzyl tagging reagents of the present aspect have advantages over other traditional non fluorous benzyl reagents in that they facilitate separation of the tagged products from each other and from non tagged reaction components.

Both the groups Rand Rin fluorous compound I where X is a leaving group may be phenyl or substituted phenyl. The substituent on the phenyl group may be up to 5 groups more typically 1 to 3 groups each independently the same or different having the structure OR SR NRR CRRR SiRRR W CH R or W CH R where R R R R R R and Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R and R R and Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl and CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5. When the substituent is W CH R or W CH R the substituent s consist of a fluorous group R as defined above which may be attached to the phenyl ring by an methylene spacer consisting of n carbon atoms where n and n are each integers from 0 to 5 and a possible substituent W when p or p is 1 situated between the phenyl ring and the methylene spacer. W may be either carbon or a heteroatom having the structure O S NR CRR or SiRR wherein R R and Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH Ror Rand Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl and CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5. The resultant compounds are fluorous trityl tagging reagents. Like traditional trityl tagging reagents the present compound can react with alcohols thiols amines carboxylic acids sulfonic acids and other nucleophiles and or mixtures thereof. For a general discussion of the use of non fluorous trityl reagents see Greene T. W. Wuts P. G. M. 3rd ed. Wiley Interscience New York 1999 and Kocienski P. Thieme Stuttgart 1994. However the fluorous trityl tagging reagents of the present aspect have advantages over other traditional non fluorous trityl reagents in that they facilitate separation of the tagged products from each other and from non tagged reaction components.

Fluorous benzylating reagents such as fluorous compound I where X is a leaving group as defined above may be prepared by one of various schemes that employ a combination of organic techniques. For example one possible scheme for the preparation of fluorous benzyl halide is disclosed in Scheme 1.

Where component X in fluorous compound I is a nucleophilic group at least one fluorous compound I reacts with at least one electrophilic organic compound via an organic reaction mechanism. The chemical reaction results in a chemical bond either covalent or ionic between the organic compound and the compound of the present aspect of the invention. Component X in fluorous compound I may be a nucleophilic group that is OH NH NHR NRR NHC NH NH SH SR NH CH NH or NH CH N CH NH wherein n is an integer from 1 to 5 and Rand Rare independently the same or different either a linear alkyl a branched alkyl an aryl or a benzyl group.

Where nucleophilic component X in fluorous compound I is SH the groups Rand Rcan both be hydrogen both alkyl or both benzyl groups. In an alternative structure one of Rand Rcan be hydrogen and the other alkyl or benzyl. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzyl thiol reagents. Fluorous benzyl thiol reagents can react with numerous electrophilic components for example but not limited to aryl halides bromomethylcarbonyl compounds benzyl halides allyl halides and other electrophiles and or mixtures thereof. They can also be used in the scavenging of metals including Ni Pd and the like.

Where nucleophilic component X in fluorous compound I is SR the groups Rand Rcan both be hydrogen both alkyl or both benzyl groups. In an alternative structure one of Rand Rcan be hydrogen and the other alkyl or benzyl. Rcan be alkyl aryl or benzyl. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzyl sulfide reagents. Fluorous benzyl sulfide reagents have potential application including but not limited to scavenging oxidation agents and carbocations for example carbocations produced in peptide deprotection reactions.

Where nucleophilic component X in fluorous compound I is a substituted nitrogen having the structure NH NHR NRRor NRRRY the groups Rand Rcan both be hydrogen both alkyl or both benzyl groups. In an alternative structure one of Rand Rcan be hydrogen and the other alkyl or benzyl. R Rand Rare independently the same or different a linear alkyl a branched alkyl or a benzyl group and Y is a counter anion such as but not limited to Cl Br Iand CO. The resultant compounds are fluorous primary benzylamines fluorous secondary benzylamines fluorous tertiary benzylamines and fluorous quaternary benzylammonium salts. Fluorous primary benzylamines fluorous secondary benzylamines and fluorous tertiary benzylamines have potential applications including but not limited to scavenging excess acid from a reaction or reacting with carboxylic acids sulfonic acids acid halides acid anhydrides chloroformates aldehydes isocyanates isothiocyanates sulfonylchlorides and other electrophiles and or mixtures thereof. Fluorous tertiary benzylamines also have the potential application as a base for example in combination with other fluorous reagents such as F Trisamine F isocyanate or F thiol scavengers the prefix F as used herein is an abbreviation of fluorous or in the mesylation reaction of alcohols. Fluorous quaternary benzylammonium salts uses include but are not limited to scavenging acids acidic phenols activated ester electrophiles and or mixtures thereof and having the potential utility to quench reactions and neutralize ammonium salts.

Nucleophilic component X in fluorous compound I may be a hydroxyl group wherein the groups Ris hydrogen and Rhas the structure CH W . The integer value of q is from 0 to 5 more typically from 0 to 3. W can be the grouping of atoms OR SR NRR CRRR or SiRRR wherein R R R R R R and Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH Ror R R and Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5. The resultant compounds are fluorous bisbenzyl alcohols. Fluorous bisbenzyl alcohols uses include but are not limited to reacting with alcohols and carboxylic acids and or mixtures thereof thereby tagging the compound and simplifying separation purification.

Nucleophilic component X in fluorous compound I may be an amino group wherein Ris hydrogen and Rhas the structure CH W . The integer value of q is from 0 to 5 more typically from 0 to 3. W can be the grouping of atoms OR SR NRR CRRR or SiRRR wherein R R R R R R and Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH Rand R R and Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5. The resultant compounds are fluorous bisbenzyl amines. Fluorous bisbenzyl amines uses include but are not limited to their reaction with carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids and or mixtures thereof thereby tagging the compound and simplifying separation purification.

Where nucleophilic component X in fluorous compound I is NH CH NH the groups Rand Rcan both be hydrogen both alkyl or both benzyl groups. In an alternative structure one of Rand Rcan be hydrogen and the other alkyl or benzyl. The integer value for n is 1 to 5. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzyl diamines. Fluorous benzyl diamines have uses including but not limited to quenching activated carbonyl acids sulfonyl halides isocyanates isothiocyanates and other electrophiles or mixtures thereof and also scavenging excess acid. Subsequent to reaction the tagged compound can be easily removed from the reaction mixture.

Where nucleophilic component X in fluorous compound I is NH CH N CH NH the groups Rand Rcan both be hydrogen both alkyl or both benzyl groups. In an alternative structure one of Rand Rcan be hydrogen and the other alkyl or benzyl. The integer value for n is 1 to 5. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzyl trisamines. Fluorous benzyl trisamines uses include but are not limited to their reaction with carboxylic acids acid chlorides sulfonyl halides isocyanates isothiocyanates imines and other electrophiles of mixtures thereof and scavenging excess acid. Subsequent to reaction the tagged compound can be easily removed from the reaction mixture.

Where nucleophilic component X in fluorous compound I is NHC N NH the groups Rand Rcan both be hydrogen both alkyl or both benzyl groups. In an alternative structure one of Rand Rcan be hydrogen and the other alkyl or benzyl. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzyl guanidines. Fluorous benzyl guanidines have the potential use including but not limited to acting as strong organic bases.

Fluorous reagents such as fluorous compound I where X is a nucleophilic group as defined above may be prepared by one of various schemes that employ a combination of organic techniques. For example one possible scheme for the preparation of fluorous benzyl thiol reagents is disclosed in Scheme 3.

Where component X in fluorous compound I is an electrophilic group at least one fluorous compound I reacts with at least one nucleophilic organic compound via an organic reaction mechanism. The chemical reaction results in a chemical bond either covalent or ionic between the organic compound and the compound of the present aspect of the invention.

Where electrophilic component X in fluorous compound I is the electrophilic group comprising either an isocyanate group or an isothiocyanate group the groups Rand Rcan both be hydrogen both alkyl or both benzyl groups. In an alternative structure one of Rand Rcan be hydrogen and the other alkyl or benzyl. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzyl isocyanates and isothiocyanates. Fluorous benzyl isocyanates and isothiocyanates have uses including but not limited to their reaction with amines hydrazines and other nucleophiles or mixtures thereof for the purpose of tagging scavenging those compounds for separation from the reaction mixture.

Fluorous reagents such as fluorous compound I where X is an electrophilic group may be prepared by one of various schemes that employ a combination of organic techniques. For example one possible scheme for the preparation of fluorous isocyanate and isothiocyanate reagents is disclosed in Scheme 12.

In an alternative structure to the structures comprising fluorous compound I Ris a fluorous group selected from a perfluorocarbon a fluorohydrocarbon a fluorinated ether or a fluorinated amine.

The present invention also provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound including reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the general structure of fluorous compound I as described above to create a first fluorous tagged organic compound. The organic compound will have at least one functional group reactive with group X on the fluorous second compound I forming at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and the fluorous second compound I resulting in the first fluorous tagged organic compound. The fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound is increased relative to the organic compound to enable separation of the first fluorous tagged organic compound from at least one other compound by using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In the method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound having the structure of fluorous compound I described above wherein X is a leaving group the leaving group X in fluorous compound I may be those leaving groups defined above. Where fluorous compound I is a benzyl tagging reagent as described above the resultant fluorous benzyl tagging reagents have uses including but not limited to tagging alcohols thiols amines carboxylic acids sulfonic acids and other nucleophilic organic compounds and or mixtures thereof wherein the fluorous benzyl tagged compounds can be separated from other reaction components through separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Where fluorous compound I is a trityl tagging reagent as described above the resultant fluorous trityl tagging reagents have uses including but not limited to the tagging of alcohols thiols amines carboxylic acids sulfonic acids and other nucleophiles and or mixtures thereof wherein the fluorous trityl tagged compounds can be separated from other reaction components through separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In the method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound having the structure of fluorous compound I described above wherein X is a nucleophilic group the nucleophilic group X in fluorous compound I may be those nucleophilic groups defined above and at least one fluorous compound I reacts with at least one electrophilic organic compound via an organic reaction mechanism. The chemical reaction results in a chemical bond either covalent or ionic between the organic compound and the compound of the present aspect of the invention. In the above method of the present invention the fluorous tagged or scavenged organic compounds can then be separated from the reaction mixture by a separation technique that may include a standard or fluorous separation technique known to those skilled in the art. The tagged compounds may then be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations.

In the method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound having the structure I where component X in fluorous compound I may be an electrophilic group as defined above at least one fluorous compound I reacts with at least one nucleophilic organic compound via an organic reaction mechanism. The chemical reaction results in a chemical bond either covalent or ionic between the organic compound and the compound of the present aspect of the invention. Where electrophilic component X in fluorous compound I is the electrophilic group comprising either an isocyanate group or an isothiocyanate group the resultant compounds are fluorous benzyl isocyanates and isothiocyanates. Fluorous benzyl isocyanates and isothiocyanates have uses including but not limited to reacting with amines hydrazines and other nucleophilic reagents and or mixtures thereof wherein the fluorous tagged compounds can be separated from other reaction components through separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In addition the method of the present invention may further include reducing the fluorous content of a second fluorous tagged organic compound that is tagged with fluorous compound I . In this aspect of the invention the first fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound I is subjected to at least one chemical reaction and potentially at least one purification process. The chemical reaction s produces the second fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound I which is isolated and subjected to the fluorous content reducing step. The resultant molecules may have uses that include but are not limited to pharmaceutical compounds or intermediates and combinatorial library components.

The fluorous nature of the second fluorous tagged organic compound may be reduced by removing at least one grouping of atoms having the possible structure CRR CH W CH R CH W CH R W CH R CH R or Rfrom the second fluorous tagged organic compound.

In another embodiment the present invention provides compounds for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound having the general structure of XCOCHR II wherein X is a leaving group and Rd has the structure selected from 

Component X in fluorous compound II may be various leaving groups suitable for use in the present invention and known to those skilled in the art. X may be a leaving group with a structure consisting of a halide N CN OR ONH ONHR ONR OCR OCOR OCNR SR OC S R RCS SC O SR SCSR OC O SR OC S OR SC S OR RSO RSO ROSO ROSO RPO ROPO an N imidazolyl group an N triazolyl group an N benzotriazolyl group a benzotriazolyloxy group an imidazolyloxy group an N imidazolinone group an N imidazolone group an N imidazolinethione group an N succinimidyl group an N phthalimidyl group an N succinimidyloxy group an N phthalimidyloxy group ON C CN R or a 2 pyridyloxy group wherein Ris one of linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5.

For the purpose of this embodiment Rand R may be independently the same or different selected from a perfluorocarbon a fluorohydrocarbon a fluorinated ether or a fluorinated amine.

Where Rof fluorous compound II has the structure CH CH CH R i.e. group a the resultant compounds are fluorous allyloxycarbonyl reagents F Alloc . Where Rin fluorous compound II has the structure 

Fluorous reagents such as fluorous compound II where Rmay have the structures as described may be prepared by one of various schemes that employ a combination of organic techniques. For example one possible scheme for the preparation of fluorous allyloxycarbonyl reagents is disclosed in Scheme 13.

The present invention also provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound that includes reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the general structure of fluorous compound II described above. The organic compound will have at least one functional group reactive with leaving group X on the second compound forming at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and the second compound resulting in the first fluorous tagged organic compound. The fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound is increased relative to the organic compound to enable separation of the first fluorous tagged organic compound from at least one other compound by using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In the method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound having the structure II described above wherein component X is a leaving group the leaving group X in fluorous compound II may be those leaving groups defined above. Where fluorous compound II is F Alloc F Fmoc or F Cbz reagent described above the resultant F Alloc F Fmoc or F Cbz reagents respectively have uses that include but are not limited to reacting with amines such that the fluorous tagged amines may be readily separated from other fluorous or non fluorous reaction components.

In addition the method of the present invention may further include reducing the fluorous content of a second fluorous tagged organic compound that is tagged with fluorous compound II . In this aspect of the invention the first fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound II is subjected to at least one chemical reaction and potentially at least one purification process. The chemical reaction s produces the second fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound II which is isolated and subjected to the fluorous content reducing step. The resultant molecules may have uses that include but are not limited to pharmaceutical compounds or intermediates and combinatorial library components.

The fluorous nature of the second fluorous tagged organic compound may be reduced by removing at least one grouping of atoms having the possible structure COCHR OCHR R and Rfrom the second fluorous tagged organic compound.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides compounds for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound having the general structure of RRN CH R III wherein n is an integer from 0 to 5 Ris a fluorous group and RRis selected from 

For the purpose of this embodiment Rmay be a perfluorocarbon a fluorohydrocarbon a fluorinated ether or a fluorinated amine.

In fluorous compound III the groups RR taken together may be CH W CH forming a cyclic amine where W m and m are as defined above. The resultant compounds are fluorous cyclic amines that have various applications including but not limited to acting as a tertiary amine to catalyze reactions as a catalyst in the functionalization of secondary amines with acid chlorides and as a scavenger to remove excess acid.

In fluorous compound III the nitrogen may be substituted where Ris one of linear alkyl and branched alkyl and Ris a pyridyl ring wherein the nitrogen may be attached to the pyridyl ring at the 2 3 or 4 position. The resultant compounds are fluorous aminopyridines. Uses of fluorous aminopyridines include but are not limited to as an equivalent to dimethylaminopyridine for the catalysis of acylation or esterification reactions and as a reagent for the catch and release of acid chlorides and sulfonyl chlorides in the synthesis of acyl and sulfonyl derivatives including esters amides sulfonanides and or mixtures thereof.

The nitrogen of fluorous compound III may also be substituted where Ris hydrogen and Ris CH NH wherein n is an integer from 1 to 5. The resultant compounds are fluorous alkyldiamines. Fluorous alkyldiamines have uses including but not limited to quenching activated carbonyl acids sulfonyl halides isocyanates isothiocyanates and other electrophiles and or mixtures thereof and also the scavenging of excess acid.

The nitrogen of fluorous compound III may also be substituted where Ris hydrogen and Ris CH N CH NH wherein n is an integer from 1 to 5. The resultant compounds are fluorous alkyl trisaminoalkyl amines. Fluorous alkyl trisamninoalkyl amines have uses including but not limited to quenching activated carbonyl acids sulfonyl halides isocyanates isothiocyanates and other electrophiles and or mixtures thereof. The compounds can also be useful in the scavenging of excess acid.

The nitrogen of fluorous compound III may also be substituted wherein Ris CH OH and Ris CH OH wherein n and n are each integers between 1 and 5. The resultant compounds are fluorous N N dihydroxyalkylamines. Fluorous N N dihydroxyalkylamines have uses including but not limited to quenching of boronic acids. The quenched boronic acids may then be readily removed from the reaction mixture through separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Fluorous reagents such as III where the groups RRhave the structures as described may be prepared by one of various schemes that employ a combination of organic techniques. For example one possible scheme for the preparation of fluorous cyclic amine reagents is disclosed in Scheme 16.

The present invention also provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound including the step of reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the structure of fluorous compound III wherein the groups RRmay be as described above to create a first fluorous tagged organic compound. The organic compound having at least one functional group reactive with at least one N or OH group on the second compound III forming at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and the second compound III resulting in the first fluorous tagged organic compound. The fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound is increased relative to the organic compound to enable separation of the first fluorous tagged organic compound from at least one other compound by using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The tagged compounds may then be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations.

In addition the method of the present invention may further include reducing the fluorous content of a second fluorous tagged organic compound that is tagged with fluorous compound III . In this aspect of the invention the first fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound III is subjected to at least one chemical reaction and potentially at least one purification process. The chemical reaction s produces the second fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound III which is isolated and subjected to the fluorous content reducing step. The resultant molecules may have uses that include but are not limited to pharmaceutical compounds or intermediates and combinatorial library components.

The fluorous nature of the second fluorous tagged organic compound may be reduced by removing at least one grouping of atoms having the possible structure RRN CH R N CH R CH R or Rfrom the second fluorous tagged organic compound.

In a further embodiment the present invention provides compounds for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound having the general structure of X CH W CH R IV wherein Ris a fluorous group m has an integer value from 1 to 5 more typically from 1 to 3 n has an integer value from 0 to 5 p is either 0 or 1 and W is an atom or grouping of atoms having the structure of O S NR CRR or SiRR. When W is O then X has the structure SONHNH CHO when p is 1 SH CH SH C NOH CHY or C O CHC O R. When W is S NR CRR or SiRR then X has the structure SONH SONHNH CHO when p is 1 SH CH SH C NR CHY or C O CHC O R. Z is either oxygen or sulfur. Y is either an electron withdrawing group a hydrogen or an alkyl group and Ris either a hydrogen an alkyl an aryl or a hydroxyl group. The integer value of n is from 2 to 5. R Rand Rare independently the same or different either hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R and Rand Rare independently the same or different either linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R. Ris linear alkyl branched alkyl or benzyl.

For the purpose of this embodiment Rmay be a perfluorocarbon a fluorohydrocarbon a fluorinated ether or a fluorinated amine.

Where component X in fluorous compound IV is SONH the structure of W may be S NR CRR or SiRR. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzenesulfonamides. Fluorous benzenesulfonamides have uses including but not limited to scavenging acids acid chlorides anhydrides aldehydes isocyanates isothiocyanates chloroformates and other electrophiles and or mixtures thereof The scavenged compounds can be separated from the reaction mixture using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Where component X in fluorous compound IV is SONHNH the resultant structures are fluorous sulfonylhydrazides. Fluorous sulfonylhydrazides have uses including but not limited to scavenging aldehydes and ketones and or mixtures thereof. The scavenged compounds can be separated from the reaction mixture using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Where component X in fluorous compound IV is CHO the value of p is 1. The resultant structures are fluorous benzaldehydes. Fluorous benzaldehydes have uses including but not limited to selectively scavenging primary amines hydrazines hydroxylamines 1 2 aminothiols Grignard reagents other organometallic reagents and or mixtures thereof. The scavenged compounds can be separated from the reaction mixture using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Where component X in fluorous compound IV is SH or CH SH where the integer value of n is from 2 to 5 the resultant structures are fluorous benzenethiols or fluorous arylalkylthiols respectively. Fluorous benzenethiols and fluorous arylalkylthiols have uses including but not limited to reacting with numerous electrophilic components for example aryl halides bromomethylcarbonyl compounds benzyl halides allyl halides and other electrophiles and or mixtures thereof. They can also be used in the scavenging of metals such as Ni Pd and the like. The scavenged or tagged compounds can be separated from the reaction mixture using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Component X in fluorous compound IV may be C NR CHY where Y is an electron withdrawing group a hydrogen or an alkyl group and Ris a hydrogen an alkyl group and aryl group or a hydroxyl group. Where Y is an electron withdrawing group it may be selected from nitro cyano fluoro or chloro. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzylimines when Ris hydrogen alkyl or aryl or benzyloximes when Ris hydroxyl which have uses including but not limited to tagging of carboxylic acids. The tagged compounds can be separated from the reaction mixture using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Component X in fluorous compound IV may also be C O CHC O R where Ris linear alkyl branched alkyl or benzyl. The resultant compounds are fluorous aryl 1 3 diketones. Fluorous aryl 1 3 diketones have uses including but not limited to scavenging primary amines in the presence of secondary amines. The scavenged compounds can be separated from the reaction mixture using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Fluorous reagents such as IV where component X is as described above may be prepared by one of various schemes that employ a combination of organic techniques. For example one possible scheme for the preparation of fluorous benzenesulfonamide reagents is disclosed in Scheme 23.

The present invention also provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound including the step of reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the structure of fluorous compound IV where component X is as described above and also including where component X of fluorous compound IV may be the group COCl SOCl OH NCZ or SOH to create a first fluorous tagged organic compound. The organic compound has at least one functional group that reacts with group X on at least one second fluorous compound IV to form at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and at least one second fluorous compound IV . The chemical reaction results in a first fluorous tagged organic compound with an increased fluorous nature relative to the fluorous nature of the organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound enables separating the first fluorous tagged organic compound from other compounds by use of separation techniques that may include separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The tagged compounds may then be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound IV where component X in fluorous compound IV may be COCl. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzoyl chlorides. Fluorous benzoyl chlorides react alcohols amines thiols and other nucleophiles and or mixtures thereof through a nucleophilic acyl substitution process to produce a fluorous tagged organic compound.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound IV where component X in fluorous compound IV may be SOCl. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzenesulfonyl chlorides that have uses including but not limited to tagging and scavenging alcohols amines thiols and other nucleophiles and or mixtures thereof.

The present invention may further provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound IV where component X in fluorous compound IV may be OH. The resultant compounds are fluorous phenols that have uses including but not limited to tagging carboxylic acids.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound IV where component X in fluorous compound IV may be NCZ where Z is either oxygen or sulfur. The resultant compounds are fluorous phenyl isocyanates or fluorous phenyl isothiocyanates that have uses including but not limited to scavenging amines hydrazines and other nucleophiles and or mixtures thereof

The present invention may further provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound IV where component X in fluorous compound IV may be SOH. The resultant compounds are fluorous benzene sulfonic acids that have uses including but not limited to scavenging amines alcohols and other nucleophiles and or mixtures thereof.

In the present method when component X of fluorous compound IV is as described above the organic compounds that are reacted with fluorous compound IV can be separated from the reaction mixture by a separation technique that may include a standard or fluorous separation technique known to those skilled in the art. In the method where fluorous compound IV is to be used as a fluorous tagging reagent for example fluorous benzyloximes fluorous benzoyl chlorides fluorous benzenesulfonyl chlorides or fluorous phenols then the tagged organic compound may be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations.

In addition the method of the present invention may further include reducing the fluorous content of a second fluorous tagged organic compound that is tagged with fluorous compound IV . In this aspect of the invention the first fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound IV is subjected to at least one chemical reaction and potentially at least one purification process. The chemical reaction s produces the second fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound IV which is isolated and subjected to the fluorous content reducing step. The resultant molecules may have uses that include but are not limited to pharmaceutical compounds or intermediates and combinatorial library components.

The fluorous nature of the second fluorous tagged organic compound may be reduced by removing at least one grouping of atoms having the possible structure CH W CH R W CH R CH R and Rfrom the second fluorous tagged organic compound.

In still a further embodiment the present invention provides compounds for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound having the general structure of X CH R V wherein Ris a fluorous group and n is an integer from 0 to 5. X may be a grouping of atoms having the substructure of C CH COCl. The resultant compounds are fluorous pivaloyl chlorides. Fluorous pivaloyl chlorides have uses including but not limited to the tagging of alcohols and amines and or mixtures thereof The fluorous tagged organic compound can then be separated from the reaction mixture by a separation technique that may include a standard or fluorous separation technique known to those skilled in the art. The tagged compound may then be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations.

Fluorous reagents such as V where component X is C CH COCl may be prepared by one of various schemes that employ a combination of organic techniques. For example one possible scheme for the preparation of fluorous pivaloyl chlorides is disclosed in Scheme 29.

The present invention also provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound including the step of reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the general structure of fluorous compound V as described above and also including where component X of fluorous compound V may be the group CRRSH CRRSR SOCl OC O NHNH NHC NH NH SONH SONHNH NCZ maleimide succinic anhydride or COCHCOR. R R R and Rare independently the same or different hydrogen linear alkyl branched alkyl benzyl or CH Rand Z is either oxygen or sulfur. The organic compound has at least one functional group that reacts with group X on at least one second fluorous compound V to form at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and at least one second compound V . The chemical reaction results in a first fluorous tagged organic compound with an increased fluorous nature relative to the fluorous nature of the organic compound. The increased fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound enables separating the first fluorous tagged organic compound from other compounds by use of separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The tagged compound may then be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is CRRSH where the groups Rand Rare defined above. The resultant structures are fluorous alkylthiols. Fluorous alkylthiols have uses including but not limited to tagging scavenging numerous electrophilic components for example aryl halides bromomethylcarbonyl compounds benzyl halides allyl halides and other electrophiles and or mixtures thereof. They can also be used in the scavenging of metals such as Ni Pd and the like.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is CRRSRwhere the groups R Rand Rare defined above. The resultant compounds are fluorous alkyl sulfide reagents. Fluorous alkyl sulfide reagents have potential application including but not limited to scavenging oxidation agents and carbocations for example carbocations produced in peptide deprotection reactions.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is SOCl. The resultant compounds are fluorous alkylsulfonyl chlorides that have uses including but not limited to tagging and scavenging alcohols amines thiols and other nucleophiles and or mixtures thereof.

The present invention may further provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is OC O NHNH. The resultant compounds are fluorous alkylcarbazates that have uses including but not limited to tagging ketones.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is NHC NH NH. The resultant compounds are fluorous alkylguanidines that have uses including but not limited to acting as strong organic bases which can scavenge acid.

The present invention may further provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is SONH. The resultant structures are fluorous alkyl sulfonamides that have uses including but not limited to scavenging acids acid chlorides anhydrides isocyanates isothiocyanates chlorofdrmates and other electrophiles and or mixtures thereof.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is SONHNH. The resultant structures are fluorous alkyl sulfonylhydrazides. Fluorous alkyl sulfonylhydrazides have uses including but not limited to scavenging aldehydes and ketones and or mixtures thereof.

The present invention may further provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is NCZ where Z is either oxygen or sulfur. The resultant compounds are fluorous alkyl isocyanates or fluorous alkyl isothiocyanates that have uses including but not limited to scavenging amines hydrazines and other nucleophiles and or mixtures thereof.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is maleimide. The resultant compounds are fluorous maleimides that has the uses including but not limited to scavenging primary and secondary amines and thiols and or mixtures thereof.

The present invention may further provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is succinic anhydride. The resultant fluorous succinic anhydride has uses including but not limited to scavenging amines.

The present invention may also provide a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound by reacting it with at least one second compound V where component X in fluorous compound V is COCHCOR wherein Ris defined above. The resultant fluorous alkyl 1 3 diketone has uses including but not limited to scavenging primary amines in the presence of secondary amines.

In the present method when component X of fluorous compound V is as described above the organic compounds that are reacted with fluorous compound V can be separated from the reaction mixture by a separation technique that may include a standard or fluorous separation technique known to those skilled in the art. In the method where fluorous compound V is to be used as a fluorous tagging reagent for example fluorous pivaloyl chlorides fluorous alkylthiols fluorous alkylsulfonyl chlorides or fluorous alkylcarbazates then the tagged organic compound may be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations.

In addition the method of the present invention may further include reducing the fluorous content of a second fluorous tagged organic compound that is tagged with fluorous compound V . In this aspect of the invention the first fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound V is subjected to at least one chemical reaction and potentially at least one purification process. The chemical reaction s produces the second fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound V which is isolated and subjected to the fluorous content reducing step. The resultant molecules may have uses that include but are not limited to pharmaceutical compounds or intermediates and combinatorial library components.

The fluorous nature of the second fluorous tagged organic compound may be reduced by removing at least one grouping of atoms having the possible structure CH W CH R W CH R CH R and Rfrom the second fluorous tagged organic compound.

In still another embodiment the present invention provides compounds for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound having the general structure of 

In the present invention the leaving group X in structure VI may be various leaving groups suitable for use in the present invention and known to those skilled in the art. X may be a leaving group with a structure consisting of a halide N CN OR ONH ONHR ONR OCR OCOR OCNR SR OC S R RCS SC O SR SCSR OC O SR OC S OR SC S OR RSO RSO ROSO ROSO RPO ROPO an N imidazolyl group an N triazolyl group an N benzotriazolyl group a benzotriazolyloxy group an imidazolyloxy group an N imidazolinone group an N imidazolone group an N imidazolinethione group an N succinimidyl group an N phthalimidyl group an N succinimidyloxy group an N phthalimidyloxy group ON C CN R or a 2 pyridyloxy group wherein Ris one of linear alkyl branched alkyl aryl benzyl or CH R wherein n in an integer from 0 to 5.

In the present invention the leaving group X in structure VII may be a leaving group that is a halide methane sulfonate p toluenesulfonate trifluoromethanesulfonate or perfluoroalkylsulfonate.

The present invention also provides a method for increasing the fluorous nature of an organic compound including the step of reacting the organic compound with at least one second compound having the general structure of fluorous compound VI VII VIII or IX as described above to create a first fluorous tagged organic compound. The organic compound having at least one functional group reactive with the functionality on the second fluorous compound VI VII VIII or IX forming at least one chemical bond between the organic compound and the second fluorous compound VI VII VIII or IX resulting in the first fluorous tagged organic compound. The fluorous nature of the first fluorous tagged organic compound is increased relative to the organic compound to enable separation of the first fluorous tagged organic compound from at least one other compound by using separation techniques that may include standard or fluorous separation techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In addition the method of the present invention may further include reducing the fluorous content of a second fluorous tagged organic compound that is tagged with fluorous compound VI VII VIII or X . In this aspect of the invention the first fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound VI VII VIII or IX is subjected to at least one chemical reaction and potentially at least one purification process. The chemical reaction s produces the second fluorous tagged organic compound in which the tag is from fluorous compound VI VII VIII or IX which is isolated and subjected to the fluorous content reducing step. The resultant molecules may have uses that include but are not limited to pharmaceutical compounds or intermediates and combinatorial library components.

In the method of the present invention the fluorous compounds described above may be used as fluorous tags to increase the fluorous nature of an organic compound. The tagged organic compound can then be subjected to subsequent chemical transformations and separations purifications. Representative demonstrations of the fluorous tagging process is described below.

In one demonstration of its utility as a tag in fluorous synthesis a fluorous thiol 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecanethiol was attached to the electron deficient 2 4 dichloro 6 methylpyrimidine by a nucleophilic substitution in the presence of diisopropylethylamine DIPEA Scheme 30 .

An important feature of fluorous synthesis is the employment of simple solid phase extraction SPE over FluoroFlash cartridges charged with fluorous silica that has a perfluorocarbon bonded phase to selectively retain fluorous molecules while organic compounds pass through as fast as the solvent front. Only two fractions need to be collected from the SPE a MeOH HO 80 20 fraction containing non fluorous compounds and a MeOH fraction containing fluorous compounds. The strong fluorine fluorine interaction retains small molecules tagged with a light fluorous tag CF on fluorous silica gel until elution with a stronger solvent such as MeOH. Fluorous intermediate 2 was purified by SPE and collected from the MeOH fraction while product 4 was collected from the MeOH HO fraction. The DIPEA used for the reaction of 1a can be removed by acidic workup prior to SPE. The crude product containing cleaved tag DIPEA and excess nucleophile was purified by loading onto a FluoroFlash cartridge with a small amount of weak acidic ion exchange resin Amberlite CG 50 on top of the fluorous silica and eluted with MeOH HO 80 20 .

Synthesis of substituted pyrimidines exemplifies the unique characters of fluorous synthesis including the use of tag strategy for quick SPE analysis and separation of tagged isomers by conventional tools and adaptability of traditional solution phase reaction conditions. The beadless and traceless fluorous thiol tag is complementary to corresponding thiol linkers in solid phase synthesis. The catch and release method with the fluorous thiol can be applied to the synthesis of other substituted N heterocyles.

In another example of the method of the present invention wherein the fluorous compounds may be used as an alternative to a polymer resin to prepare libraries of organic compounds. Below is an example demonstrating the utility of a perfluoroalkylsulfanylphenol as a fluorous tag.

Described in this paper is the synthesis of fluorous version of Marshall resin perfluoroalkylsulfanylphenol 5 FluoMar . FluoMar is now commercially available from Fluorous Technologies Inc. Pittsburgh Pa. . The utility of this compound is illustrated by the solution phase synthesis of amides and diamides.

The FluoMar 5 was readily prepared by S alkylation of 4 mercaptophenol with CFCHCHI and purified by flash column chromatography on normal silica gel Scheme 32 . The ethylene spacer between the CFtag and the sulfur is expected to minimize the strong electron withdrawing effect from the perfluoroalkyl group and maintain the nucleophilicity of the hydroxy group. This compound has the general features of organic molecules it dissolves well in common solvents such as CHCl THF and AcOEt and can be analyzed by traditional chromatographic and spectroscopic methods.

With compound 5 in hand we first validated the attachment to carboxylic acids 6 and the tag cleavage by the amine displacement Scheme 33 . The coupling of 5 with indole 5 carboxylic acid 61 2.0 equiv or 7 methoxy 2 benzofurancarboxylic acid 62 was carried out under a standard solution phase conditions with 2.0 equiv of diisopropylcarbodiimide DIC and 1.0 equiv of dimethylaminopyridine DMAP in DMF. These intermediates were purified by regular flash column chromatography. Compounds 71 and 72 were each split to three portions and directly displaced with three primary amines 81 3 without oxidation of the sulfur to give the corresponding amides 91 2 1 3. After a quick acidic workup with 1.0 N HCl to remove the unreacted amine the crude product was loaded onto a FluoroFlash cartridge and the MeOH HO fraction was collected to give analytically pure product. The FluoMar tag 5 was recovered in the MeOH fraction in 65 70 yield.

Encouraged by the preliminary results the use of FluoMar 5 in a multi step parallel synthesis of diamides was explored Scheme 34 . The N Boc isonipecotic acid 10 was coupled with 5 followed by deprotection with TFA and N acylation with three different acid halides. The resulting compounds 121 3 were each split into three portions and displaced by three amines resulting in a demonstration library of diamides 131 3 1 3. The final products were purified by SPE and cleaved FluoMar 5 was recovered in an average yield of 65 .

In a further example of the method of the present invention wherein the fluorous compounds described above may be used react with unreacted reaction components thereby tagging the unreacted component. The tagged unreacted reaction component can then be readily removed or scavenged from the reaction mixture by a separation technique that may include a standard or fluorous separation technique known to those skilled in the art. A representative demonstration of the fluorous scavenging process is described below.

Introduced herebelow are two new fluorous electrophilic scavengers isatoic anhydride 14 and isocyanate 15 that can be used to remove primary and secondary amines from the reaction mixtures.

Compound 15 was readily prepared by N alkylation of isatoic anhydride with CFCHCHCHI using sodium hydride as a deprotonation agent. The C 4 carbonyl is an active site for the nucleophilic attack. Fluorous isocyanate 15 was synthesized following a literature procedure. To demonstrate the utility of these two compounds as scavengers for amines two substrates phenyl isocyanate and phenyl isothiocyanate were reacted with various primary and secondary amines to produce corresponding ureas and thioureas Scheme 35 . In each case 1.5 equiv of amine was used to ensure the consumption of the substrate.

Fluorous isatoic anhydride 14 was further evaluated in the reaction of epoxide 18 with amines Scheme 36 . In a high loading experiment using 2.0 equiv of amine and 3.0 equiv of scavenger 14 products 19a 42 and 19b 67 from primary amines had better yields than products 19d 15 and 19e 29 from secondary amines. It was hypothesized that the low yield might have been caused by the interaction of excess scavenger with the hydroxyamine product.

The method of the present invention can further be demonstrated by the use of a fluorous compound as a protecting group for an organic functional group. The tagging protection and detagging deprotection of an organic compound is demonstrated below using an F Fmoc tag.

N 2 1H 1H 2H 2H Perfluorodecyl fluorenyl 9 methoxycarbonyloxy 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline To a solution of N 2 1H 1H 2H 2H Perfluorodecyl fluorenyl 9 methoxycarbonyloxy succinimide F17 Fmoc OSu 78.3 mg 0.1 mmol in THF was added 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 15.0 mg 0.12 mmol at 23 C. After 10 min the solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolve in THF 1 mL . The solution was loaded onto a FluoroFlash SPE cartridge 5 g and it was eluted with MeOH H2O 80 20 15 mL and then with MeOH 20 mL . The methanol fraction was collected and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give the title compound as white solid 69.4 mg 84 yield . H NMR 270 MHz CDCl 7.90 7.02 11H m 7.64 2H d J 13 Hz 4.50 2H d J 12 Hz 4.27 1H t J 7 Hz 3.72 2H bd 2.98 2H bs 2.86 2H bs 2.55 2.25 2H m MS APCI positive m z 802 m H .

Deprotection of F17 Fmoc protected amine was performed according to standard conditions. Morpholine THF 1 4 . Reaction time is typically within 15 min at 23 C. affording 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline.

The present invention will be described further by reference to the following examples. The following examples are merely illustrative of the invention and are not intended to be limiting. Unless otherwise indicated all parts are by weight.

Under dry Natmosphere at 0 C. phosgene 21.5 mL 20 in toluene was charged to a 250 mL 3 neck flask equipped with thermometer Ngas inlet and addition funnel. A solution of 4 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecyl benzyl alcohol 15.0 g in anhydrous THF 75 mL was added dropwise keeping the temperature between 0 5 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 5 C. until the reaction was complete. The solvent and excess phosgene were removed in under vacuum and the product was dissolved in chloroform 200 mL . N hydroxysuccinimide dicyclohexylamine salt 8.81 g was added portionwise over 5 10 minutes. After the reaction was complete water 100 mL and 1 N HCl 100 mL were added and the product was extracted with chloroform 3 100 mL . The organic layers were dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was recrystallized in hot methanol 900 mL . The solid was collected by filtration and dried under high vacuum for 5 h to give desired product 15.4 g 82 yield . The structure of the product was characterized H NMR.

A 500 mL 2 neck flask equipped with thermometer and gas inlet charged with potassium carbonate 27.6 g hydroxy benzaldehyde 13.4 g and 3 perfluorooctyl propyl iodide 58.8 g in DMF 200 mL was heated to 65 C. internal temperature . The mixture was stirred at 65 C. until the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature. Water 300 mL and ether 300 mL were added and the mixture stirred vigorously for 5 min. The layers were separated and the organic layer retained. The aqueous layer was extracted with ether 3 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 2 100 mL NaSO 1 100 mL 2.5 N NaOH 3 100 mL and aqueous NaCl 1 100 mL . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The product was further dried under high vacuum for 5 h to give desired product 53 g 91 yield . The structure of the product was characterized H NMR.

To a suspension of 2 aminofluorene 10.3 g in fluoroboric acid 50 in water 100 mL was slowly added a solution of NaNO 4.4 g in water 15 mL at below 10 C. The mixture was stirred for 6 h at below 10 C. The precipitate was collected by filtration and was washed with ice cooled water 3 and was dried under air for 12 h to give yellow green brownish powder 17.0 g that was used for the next step without purification.

To a suspension of crude fluorene 2 diazonium tetrafluoroborate 17.0 g in MeOH 100 mL was added Pd OAc 0.14 g 0.62 mmol under an nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was warmed to 30 C. internal temperature and then 1H 1H 2H perfluorodec 1 ene 32.0 g was added dropwise to keep the temperature below 45 C. The mixture was stirred at 45 C. for 2 h and then it was refluxed for 1 h. After cooling to room temperature EtO 200 mL and HO 200 mL were added. After the separation the aqueous layer was extracted with EtO 2 100 mL . The ether layers were combined and were washed with 1 N HCl 2 water 2 and brine 1 . The mixture was dried over MgSO. After filtration it was treated with charcoal 2 scoops . The charcoal was filtered off by passing though a Celite pad. Celite is commercially available from World Minerals Inc. Lompoc Ca. . After the removal of the solvent light orange powder was obtained 31.5 g 91 yield based on 2 aminofluorene .

Under an nitrogen atmosphere Pd C 10 wt on active carbon 1.0 g loading 2 mol was added to a solution of 2 1H 2H perfluorodec 1 enyl fluorine 31.5 g 51.6 mmol in THF 600 mL and MeOH 100 mL . The mixture was stirred under a hydrogen 1 atm for 1 day at 23 C. The catalyst was removed by filtration through a pad of Celite under a nitrogen atmosphere and the Celite was rinsed with THF 4 50 mL . The filtrate was concentrated to give white powder 30.0 g 95 yield .

To a suspension of NaH 60 wt in mineral oil 2.3 g in EtO 200 mL was added 2 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecyl fluorene 7.4 g and ethyl formate 19.0 mL under an nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was refluxed for 3 h and then cooled on ice water bath. Aquous HCl 1 N 200 mL was slowly added and the two layers were separated. The aquous layer was extracted with EtO 1 50 mL . The ether layers were combined and were washed with brine 2 . After being dried over MgSO the solvent was removed to give yellow solid. The solid was dissolved in THF MeOH 1 1 200 mL and NaBH 1.2 g was added in small portions over the period of 1.5 h at 6 C. After 2 h aqueous HCl 1 N 200 mL and EtO 100 mL were added. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtO 1 100 mL . The ether layers were combined and were washed with 1 N HCl 1 and brine 1 . After being dried over MgSO the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The product was purified by flash chromatography SiO eluent hexanes EtOAc 9 1 4 1 to give the title compound 6.2 g 81 yield .

Phosgene 20 wt solution in toluene 2.3 mL 4 mmol was added to a solution of 9 2 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecyl fluorenyl methanol 1.3 g in THF 60 mL at 8 C. The mixture was stirred at 23 C. for 15 h and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to form pale yellow solid. The solid was dissolved in THF 30 mL and NaOSu 0.54 g was added in two portions over the period of 2 h. The mixture was vigorously stirred for 1 d at 23 C. EtO 50 mL was added and the mixture was filtered through a pad of Celite . The Celite pad was rinsed with EtO 3 10 mL . The filtrates were combined and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give the product as white powder 1.5 g 95 yield . 1H NMR 270 MHz CDCl 7.75 2H t J 8.3 Hz 7.62 1H d J 7.4 Hz 7.5 1H s 7.44 1H t J 7.5 Hz 7.39 7.27 2H m 4.67 4.50 2H m 4.34 1H t J 7.4 Hz 3.10 2.95 2H m 2.85 s 4H 2.55 2.32 2H m MS APCI negative m z 782 m H 654 641 611.

To a solution of 4 mercaptophenol 5.05 g in THF 60 ml was added EtN 11.1 mL and 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecaneiodide 23.8 g . The reaction mixture was heated at 80 C. for 8 h. The reaction mixture was then poured into ice water. The precipitate was filtered off washed with hexanes and dried under vacuum to provide the desired product 1 as a white solid 18.0 g 78 yield mp 85 87 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.38 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.86 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 5.0 br s 1H 3.06 3.00 m 2H 2.56 2.39 m 2H . LC MS EI m z rel. intensity 572 M 553 X 169 V 139 70 125 100 97 23 81 20 69 45 58 55 . HRMS calc d for CHOFS 572.0093 found 572.0093.

To a mixture of p 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecanesulfanyl phenol 2.2 g N Boc isonipecotic acid 1.76 g in DMF 6 mL was dissolved dimethylaminopyridine DMAP 0.05 g and N N diisopropylcarbodiimide DIC 1.2 ml . After stirring at room temperature for 1.5 h the reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layers was washed with brine dried over MgSO and filtered. The concentrated crude product was purified by flash column chromatography with EtOAc hexanes 15 85 to give the fluorous bound N Boc isonipecotic ester 2.13 g 71 yield mp 94 95 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.39 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 7.07 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 4.13 4.06 m 2H 3.13 3.07 m 2H 2.97 2.88 m 2H 2.76 2.69 m 1H 2.42 2.37 m 2H 2.07 2.01 m 2H 1.84 1.71 m 2H 1.47 s 9H . LC MS EI m z rel. intensity 783 M 764 VIII 710 35 682 40 572 60 212 50 156 100 112 32 77 IX . HRMS calc d for CHOFSN 783.1286 found 783.1286.

To a solution of fluorous bound N Boc isonipecotic ester 7.22 g in CHCl 15 mL was added TFA 6.5 mL in 2 portions of 3.25 ml in interval of 4 h. After 10 h the reaction mixture was poured onto ice water 100 mL aquous NaHCO 200 mL was added and the mixture was stirred for 20 min. The white precipitate was filtered washed with water and dried under vacuum. Quantitative yield of fluorous bound isonipecotic ester was obtained 6.3 g 100 yield mp 147 148 C. This compound was used for next step without further purification. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 7.47 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.13 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 3.48 3.41 m 2H 3.31 3.29 m 1H 3.19 3.16 m 4H 3.10 2.98 m 1H 2.54 2.27 m 4H 2.07 1.93 m 2H . LC MS EI m z rel. intensity 682 M 25 664 30 572 22 139 VII 112 100 84 30 . HRMS calc d for CHOFSN 682.0722 found 682.0722.

To a solution of fluorous bound isonipecotic ester 2.0 g in THF 10 mL was added EtN 1.2 mL followed by 4 chlorobenzoyl chloride 617 L . The mixture was heated at 50 60 C. for 2.5 h. The reaction mixture was poured onto 1N HCl aq and extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO and filtered. The concentrated crude product was purified by column chromatography with EtOAc hexanes 30 70 to provide fluorous bound N acylated isonipecotic ester 5 1.9 g 79 mp 92 94 C. H NMR 300 MHz acetone d 7.50 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.47 s 4H 7.16 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 3.27 3.21 m 2H 3.15 br s 1H 3.02 2.93 m 1H 2.62 2.47 m 2H 1.85 1.73 m 2H . LC MS EI m z rel. intensity 821 M 33 802 16 682 15 572 25 250 35 222 15 156 16 139 85 121 100 69 23 . HRMS calc d for CFHNSOCl 821.0635 found 821.0635.

To a solution of fluorous N acylated isonipecotic ester 0.11 g in THF 1.0 mL was added N butylamine 0.02 mL . The mixture was heated at 50 60 C. for 5 h. The reaction mixture was poured onto 1N aq HCl and extracted with EtOAc in a small vial. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over MgSO and filtered. The concentrated oily residue 119 mg was purified by solid phase extraction on a 5 g FluoroFlash fluorous silica gel cartridge eluted with MeOH HO 80 20 . The first fraction 8 mL contained the desired product was concentrated to give product 40 mg 93 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.47 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.39 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 4.6 br s 1H 3.70 br s 1H 3.31 3.29 m 1H 3.16 t J 6.8 Hz 2H 2.90 t J 7.3 Hz 1H 2.54 2.44 m 1H 1.84 br s 2H 1.67 1.60 m 2H 1.50 1.28 m 4H 0.99 0.89 m 4H . LC MS EI m z rel. intensity 322 M 30 222 22 183 63 139 100 128 95 111 51 82 51 57 25 . HRMS calc d for CHNOCl 322.1463 found 322.1463.

Following the general procedure described above. A 9 compound demonstration library was synthesized by reacting of N Boc isonipecotic acid with 3 benzoyl chlorides and 3 amines Table 4 .

To a solution of 2 4 dichloro 6 methylpyrimidine 2.1 g and fluorous thiol available from Fluorous Technologies Inc. and other commercial source 6.1 g in DMF 50 mL was added diisopropylethylamine DIPEA 4.5 mL . After stirring at room temperature for 1 h the reaction mixture was mixed with HO and then extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with aqueous NHCl dried out MaSO and concentrated. HPLC analysis of the crude product indicated 2 chloro 4 perfluoroalkylsulfanyl 6 methylpyrimidine and 4 chloro 2 perfluoroalkylsulfanyl 6 methylpyrimidine not show in a ratio about 3 1. The major isomer was isolated as a desired product 4.3 g 55 yield using flash column chromatography on silica gel with hex EtOAc 90 10 . H NMR CDCl 2.45 s 3H 2.63 m 2H 3.42 m 2H 6.98 s 1H . MS m z rel. intensity 606 M 23 368 11 236 VI 187 100 .

To a solution of 2 chloro 4 alkylthio 6 methylpyrimidine 0.50 g and 3 trifluoromethylpyrazol 0.17 g in DMF 40 mL was added DIPEA 217 L and KCO 113 mg . After heated at 80 C. for 12 h the reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc washed with aqueous NHCl dried over MgSO and concentrated. The crude product was purified by solid phase extraction on a 5 g FluoroFlash fluorous silica gel cartridge eluted with MeOH HO 80 20 and then MeOH. The MeOH fraction contained desired product was concentrated to give pyrozoyl 4 alkylthio 6 methylpyrimidine 0.49 g 85 . H NMR CDCl 2.57 s 3H 2.74 m 2H 3.47 m 2H 6.74 d 1H 7.23 s 1H 8.58 br s 1H . MS m z rel. intensity 706 M 30 687 IX 631 X 287 100 .

To a solution of pyrozoyl 4 alkylthio 6 methylpyrimidine 100 mg in acetone 10 mL was added a solution of Oxone 350 mg in HO 3 mL at room temperature. After heating at 60 C. for 12 h the reaction mixture with white precipitate was filtrated. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc washed with brine. The organic layer was dried over MgSOand concentrated to corresponding sulfone 94 mg 91 . This compound was used for next step reaction without further purification. H NMR CDCl 2.83 s 3H 2.93 m 2H 3.75 m 2H 6.81 d 1H 7.81 s 1H 8.66 br s 1H . MS m z rel. intensity 739 M 1 100 .

To a solution of sulfone 15.0 mg in DMF 1 mL was added morpholine 5 mg . After heated at 80 C. for 10 h the reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc and then washed with aqueous NHCl. Concentrated crude product was purified by SPE on a 2 g FluoroFlash cartridge eluted with MeOH HO 80 20 and then MeOH. The MeOH HO fraction contained desired product was concentrated to give product 6 mg 96 . H NMR CDCl 2.50 s 3H 3.72 br m 4H 3.83 m 4H 6.33 s 1H 6.69 d 1H 8.61 br s 1H . MS m z rel. intensity 314 M 1 100 .

Following the fluorous tag cleavage procedure described above the sulfone was reacted with a series of nucleophilic reagents including primary and secondary amines and thiols to afford 10 disubstituted pyrimidine analogs. The purities of the final products were greater than 90 by IH NMR analysis.

In a 2L 3 neck flask equipped with Ngas inlet mechanical stirbar condenser thermocouple and addition funnel sodium hydride 7.8 g was suspended in THF 140 ml A solution of isatoic anhydride 29.1 g in DMA 60 ml and THF 100 ml was added dropwise while maintaining the internal temperature below 40 C. After the addition was complete DMA was added 60 ml and the mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 45 minutes. A solution of 3 perfluorooctyl propyl iodide 100.0 g in THF 100 ml was added dropwise at 50 C. The mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. The reaction was quenched with NHCl 400 ml . An extraction was performed with ethyl acetate 2 200 ml . The organic layer was washed with HO 1 250 ml dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was recrystallized in warm ethyl acetate 250 ml cooled slowly to room temperature and then cooled further to 0 C. overnight. The product was collected by filtration and dried under high vacuum for 4 h to give product 57.0 g 54 yield .

To a solution of phenyl isothiocyanate 22 L in CHCl 0.5 ml was added excess amine 30 L . The resulting solution was stirred at 60 C. on a sand bath overnight to ensure completion of the reaction. The reaction was monitored by TLC 30 70 EtOAc hexanes . Upon completion of the reaction Fluorous isatoic anhydride 6 was added 0.124 g to the reaction mixture. Another 1.0 mL of CHClwas added to the reaction mixture to ensure complete dissolution of the solid. The reaction mixture was stirred for 2.5 h at 60 C. TLC showed the presence of the fluorous scavenger that was added in excess the scavenged product and the expected product. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in a minimum amount of hot THF. This sample was loaded onto a 5 gm pre moistened FluoroFlash SPE cartridge with 80 20 MeOH HO which is set on a vacuum manifold. The cartridge was eluted with 80 20 MeOH HO then 100 MeOH to wash off fluorous by products from the cartridge. The first 2 fractions 2 times 8 ml contained the desired product while the last 2 fractions that are eluted with 100 MeOH contained the fluorous by products. The fractions were collected and the solvent evaporated under reduced pressure in a Speedvac overnight giving the thiourea in 75 yield as a solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 7.75 br 1H 7.47 7.42 m 2H 7.34 7.22 m 1H 7.22 7.19 m 2H 6.00 br 1H 3.67 3.60 m 2H 1.60 1.50 m 2H 1.39 1.29 m 2H 0.92 t J 7.28 Hz 3H . HRMS calc d for CHS M 208.1034 found 208.1034 M .

Following the general procedure described above three substrates isothiocyanate isocyanate and epoxide were reacted with five amines to generate a 15 compound library in parallel. The structures of the products are shown in Table 5. All product purities were greater than 90 by H NMR.

A solution of BuLi 1.7 M in pentane 20.0 mL in ether 75 mL was cooled to 78 C. under inert atmosphere. 4 1H 1H 2H 2H perfluorodecyl phenylbromide 10.0 g 0.017 mol in ether 25 mL was added at a rate to maintain the internal temperature to below 45 C. then allowed to warm to 30 C. for 30 minutes then cooled back down to 78 C. To the lithiate was added a solution of the benzophenone 3.10 g in ether 25 mL at a rate to maintain the internal temperature below 45 C. After complete addition the reaction was allowed to come to room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched with water 50 mL then acidified to pH 3 with 2 N HCl 25 mL and separated. The aqueous layer was extracted with ether 2 100 mL organics combined washed with brine 100 mL and dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed the crude product was separated via flash chromatography 10 EtOAc in hexanes and recrystallized from methanol water to provide a white crystalline solid 3.0 g 52 .

The trityl alcohol 1.0 g 1.43 mmol was dissolved in CHCl 50 mL and PCl 4.5 g was added. The reaction was checked by TLC 10 EtOAc in hexanes and additional PClwas added to complete the reaction as necessary with the total reaction time being 8 hr at room temperature. The reaction was then quenched with water 5 mL separated organic layer dried with MgSOand solvent removed to provide the pure product as an off white crystalline solid 0.84 g 82 yield .

To a solution of 1 3 6 7 8 hexahydro 2H pyrimido 1 2 a pyrimidine 5.6 g in 80 mL of THF was added 3 perfluorooctyl propyl iodide 11.8 g and triethylamine 2.6 mL . The mixture was stirred at 25 C. for 12 h. The precipitate was collected by filtration. The solid was mixed with 50 mL of 30 NaOH extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was concentrated to give desired product as a semisolid 3.8 g 32 .

Sodium azide 6.0 g was put in a 250 mL round bottom flask 2 neck equipped with a thermometer. HO 20 mL was added to dissolve sodium azide. It was cooled on an ice water bath. A solution of 3 perfluorooctyl propionyl chloride 12.9 g in acetone 25 mL was added dropwise to keep the temperature below 12 C. The mixture was vigorously stirred for 2 h. Dimethyl ether 100 mL and water 100 mL are added and the mixture was vigorously stirred for 1 min. After the separation of two layers the aqueous layer was extracted with ether 2 50 mL . The ether layers were combined and are washed with water 3 100 mL and brine. After drying over MgSO the solvent was removed under vacuum to give a mixture of white solid and liquid 12.0 g that was immediately used for the next reaction.

A solution of crude 3 perfluorooctyl propionyl azide 12 g in toluene was put in a 500 mL round bottom flask equipped with a condenser and a thermometer. The mixture was gradually warmed to 50 55 C. over 1 h and the temperature was maintained at around 55 C. for 2 h. The mixture was then refluxed for 1 h. After cooling the solvent was removed by a rotavap the residue was distilled under high vac to give non color liquid that solidifies at room temperature.

To a solution of phenyl isothiocyanate 24 L in CHCl 0.5 ml was added excess amine 30 L . The resulting solution was stirred at 55 60 C. on a sand bath overnight. 8 12 h to ensure completion of the reaction. The reaction was monitored by TLC 30 70 EtOAc Hexanes . Upon completion of the reaction fluorous isocyanate was added 0.10 g to the reaction mixture. Another 1.0 2.0 ml of CHClwas added to the reaction mixture to ensure complete dissolution of the solid. The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 2.5 h. TLC showed the presence of the fluorous scavenger that was added in excess the scavenged product and the expected product. The mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was dissolved in a minimum amount of hot THF. This sample was loaded onto a 5 gm pre moistened FluoroFlash SPE cartridge with 80 20 MeOH HO which is set on a vacuum manifold. The cartridge was eluted with 80 20 MeOH HO then 100 MeOH to wash off fluorous by products from the cartridge. The first 2 fractions 2 times 8 ml contained the desired product while the last 2 fractions 2 times 8 ml that are eluted with 100 MeOH contained the fluorous by products. The fractions were collected and the solvent evaporated under reduced pressure in a Speedvac overnight giving the thiourea in 80 yield as a solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl br 1H 7.41 t J 7.94 Hz 2H 7.27 t J 7.45 Hz 2H 7.21 7.18 m 3H 7.14 d J 7.77 Hz 2H 6.20 br 1H 4.84 d J 5.34 Hz 2H 2.33 s 3H . HRMS calc d for CHNS M 256.1034 found 256.1029 M .

Following the general procedure described above two substrates isothiocyanate and isocyanate were reacted with five amines to generate a 10 compound library in parallel. The structures of the products are shown in Table 6. All product purities were greater than 90 by H NMR.

1H 1H 2H perfluorodec 1 ene 8.5 g 4 bromobenzenesulfoamide 3.0 g Pd OAc 0.13 g tri o tolylphosphine 0.35 g BuNBr 2.4 g PrNEt 8.5 mL were dissolved in DMF 60 mL and the mixture was stirred at 110 C. for 1 d under an nitrogen atmosphere. It was then cooled to room temperature and DMF was removed under reduced pressure. The crude material was passed through a silica gel column eluent hexanes EtOAc 4 1 . The filtrate was concentrated and it was dissolved in EtO and then it was treated with charcoal. The charcoal was removed by filtration through a pad of Celite . The product was purified by fluorous solid phase extraction with a 20 g FluoroFlash cartridge eluent MeOH HO 70 30 to 100 MeOH . The MeOH fraction was concentrated to give the product 1.8 g 24 yield .

To a solution of 4 1H 2H perfluorodec 1 enyl benzenesulfonamide 0.11 g in MeOH 20 mL was added Pd C 5 wt on activated carbon 33 mg under an nitrogen atmosphere. The mixture was then stirred under hydrogen atmosphere 1 atm for 20 h at 23 C. The catalyst was removed by filtration through a Celite pad and the Celite was rinsed with EtO 100 mL . The filtrate was concentrated to give the product as pale yellow solid 0.10 g 90 yield . H NMR 270 MHz CDOD 7.85 2H d J 8.3 Hz 7.46 2H d J 8.3 Hz 4.90 2H br s 3.05 2.98 2H m 2.65 2.35 2H m MS APCI negative m z 632 M H .

In a 50 ml 2 neck flask 4 angstrom molecular sieves activated powder 0.10 g was dried under Nflow with a heat gun for 5 min. Cesium hydroxide monohydrate 0.143 g was added. DMF 15 ml was added and the mixture stirred vigorously for 10 min. Diethylenetriamine 0.91 ml was added and the mixture stirred vigorously for 10 min. Fluorous propyl iodide 0.50 g was added portionwise. The mixture was stirred for under Nfor 18 h at 25 C. The reaction mixture was extracted with ether 3 50 ml . The ether layers were washed with water 2 75 ml and brine 1 75 ml . The organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was taken up in ether. 1 M HCl in ether 1.5 ml was added. Extracted with HO 3 50 ml . The aqueous layer was washed with 2 N NaOH 50 ml . The product was extracted with ether 3 30 ml . The ether layer was concentrated and dried under high vacuum to give product 0.21 g 44 yield .

Although the forgoing description has necessarily presented a limited number of embodiments of the invention those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will appreciate that various changes in the components details materials and process parameters of the examples that have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art and all such modifications will remain within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed herein in the appended claims. It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes could be made to the embodiments described above without departing from the broad inventive concept thereof. It is understood therefore that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but it is intended to cover modifications that are within the principle and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

