---

title: Method for notifying task providers to become active using instant messaging
abstract: A method and system for correlating a work request to a provider based on content of the work request and delegating the work request to the provider using an instant message (IM) service. An instant message service including those offered by existing IM service providers is used to notify a provider that a request has been received requesting work to be performed. The instant message may include a link to details of the work being requested, establish an electronic mail communication, point to a web site or initiate an application that communicates with web-enabled services on a server connected to the Internet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671008&OS=08671008&RS=08671008
owner: ChaCha Search, Inc
number: 08671008
owner_city: Carmel
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061229
---
This application is related to and claims the benefit of U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 807 423 filed Jul. 14 2006 inventor Scott A. Jones et al. titled INSTANT MESSAGE NOTIFICATION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS in the United States Patent and Trademark Office the disclosures of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed to providing instant message notifications and more particularly to assigning requests to providers using instant message notifications.

An estimated 867 million instant messaging accounts existed at the end of 2005 more than 13.9 billion instant messages are sent each day and management of AOL Instant Messenger AIM estimates its users are logged on to AIM more than six hours per day. By the year 2009 there are expected to be 1.9 billion instant messenger accounts and 46.5 billion instant messages sent per day.

As instant exchange of information increases instant messaging services such as MSN Messenger AOL Instant Messenger AIM ICQ Google Talk and other instant messaging services are becoming widespread as a preferred medium of communication. Although functionality of instant messaging clients varies among service providers typical instant messaging clients are accessed using a subscriber screen name or other identification ID information of subscribers and allow the subscribers to maintain a contact or a buddy list of other subscribing users to which the subscribers may send messages. A subscriber is alerted whenever any one of the users in the buddy list is online and may initiate a chat session with the particular user s online. Typically instant messaging services are used for personal interaction between two or more subscribers of an instant messaging service.

The combination of real time communication similar to that offered by the telephone with the anonymity of the Internet has made instant messaging technologies a viable venue for social networks. The widespread use of instant messaging for communication among users in social networks has led to development of various technologies that enable instant messaging across various platforms of text or speech based devices such as desktop computers laptops cell phones telephones smart phones and personal digital assistants. However current social networks are limited to personal interactions among restricted communities.

Although instant messaging is known for establishing real time personal communication between users there is no known way of assigning requests to service providers using these services.

A method and system are disclosed for correlating a work request to a suitable provider among the providers based on content of the work request and delegating the work request to the suitable provider using an instant message service.

The method includes receiving a request selecting provider s from a database of providers and notifying selected provider s using an instant message service.

The disclosed interface includes a display window that allows a requester to describe a request and send notification using an instant messaging service to selected provider s who may acknowledge receipt of the request using an instant messaging service.

The disclosed system includes an instant messaging service to notify selected provider s a request description mechanism for describing the request using keywords which may be qualified using geographic or other data and a server for correlating the keywords to provider s .

These together with other aspects and advantages which will be subsequently apparent reside in the details of construction and operation as more fully hereinafter described and claimed reference being had to the accompanying drawings forming a part hereof wherein like numerals refer to like parts throughout.

Reference will now be made in detail to the present embodiments discussed herein examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below to explain the disclosed system and method by referring to the figures. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope is thereby intended such alterations and further modifications in the illustrated device and such further applications of the principles as illustrated therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the embodiments relate.

An instant message IM notification is sent to a provider in response to a request submitted from a requester. A requester is a system person or entity making a request for assistance such as a user requesting a search for information using the Internet. For example a requester may be a system similar to the search system discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 336 928 titled A SCALABLE SEARCH SYSTEM USING HUMAN SEARCHERS inventor Scott A. Jones filed Jan. 23 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Amazon s Mechanical Turk service or similar systems may also be enhanced by these disclosures. A request is a task that needs to be performed by a provider s including but not limited to a search photograph identification transcription translation reservation musical composition. A provider is an organization person or other resource that is potentially available to perform the task described in the request notification of which is conveyed via an instant messaging service. An instant message IM as used herein refers to any message transmitted using instant messaging technology including but not limited to messages exchanged using publicly available instant messaging services such as MSN Messenger AIM ICQ Google Talk and other instant messaging services.

An exemplary embodiment of a system providing instant message notifications to providers is illustrated in . As shown in the system has provider instant message IM clients including provider IM client provider IM client provider IM client through provider IM client that support instant message communication or chat using instant messaging services offered by IM service provider IM service provider IM service provider through IM service provider . The IM service providers include various instant messaging services such as those offered by MSN Messenger AIM ICQ Google Talk and other instant messaging services. For example provider IM client provider IM client provider IM client through provider IM client establish communication using instant messaging services offered by the IM service providers IM service provider through IM service provider such as MSN Messenger AIM Yahoo Messenger Google Talk iChat etc via a network . The provider IM client through provider IM client represent an IM client application implemented on a device enabled to be used by a provider for exchanging a message conveyed via an instant messaging service.

The network s may be any publicly accessible network such as the Internet or a private network. For example the network s and or may be private and public networks such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN etc. and may use protocols such as TCP IP LU 6.2 etc. The networks may be the same network or multiple networks. Information exchanged via the provider IM clients using instant messaging services offered by IM service providers includes but is not limited to text based messages images multimedia Uniform Resource Locator URL links voice transmissions including information exchanged using instant messaging services offering Voice Over IP VoIP such as Skype etc. from which a provider may receive notifications.

The system IM clients including system IM client system IM client system IM client through system IM client support exchange of instant messages across multiple platforms. For example when an IM account of a person i.e. a provider registered to perform a requested work has an IM account with e.g. MSN Messenger system exchanges instant messages via system IM client that is configured to support instant messaging services of MSN Messenger. Similarly when providers register to receive requests and or notifications using IM accounts offered through AIM and Google Talk the system communicates via system IM clients and that support exchange of messages via AIM and Google Talk respectively.

The system IM clients including system IM client system IM client system IM client through system IM client are connected with the system manager a computer system that monitors processes and manages requests submitted by requester s and or web server and tracks responses to the requests from provider IM clients . A request may be submitted via the web server and or via the requester using any device or system that can be connected in real time to the system manager wirelessly or via wired connection such as a computer system a handheld computer such as a personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone a text enabled cellular telephone an electronic device such as a cable set top box a consumer appliance an device in a car such as an On Star system a specialized request terminal or any other general purpose device that allows a user to submit a request. Similarly a service provider handling the requested work may use any device that has IM communication functionality. As such various types of work including web and voice based requests are handled by the system .

As shown in the system manager is connected with a system database . Although the system database is illustrated as part of the system the disclosed system is not limited to any type of database. For example publicly accessible databases private databases may be used in conjunction with or instead of the system database . The database maintains information of provider s requester s request s and keywords correlated to the requests from the requester s and task results of the provider s including but not limited to providers quality of service ratings from prior request s keywords that the provider has chosen to help him receive requests and other data that allow the system to select the provider. For example metric information may include the number of requests submitted by a requester over a time period the type of requests by keyword or category correlated to the nature of the request the number of request notifications received and or acknowledged by a provider the time period required to satisfy a request and other data indicating the capability of the provider.

The web server receives web based requests for provider s . However submission of requests via the system is not limited to receiving web based requests. For example requests may be submitted using the requester which may be a system or program configured to submit requests to the system manager using an application programming interface API . As previously mentioned a requester may be a system similar to the search system discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 336 928.

The system manager receives requests from the requester or the web server and sends instant message notifications regarding the requests to one or more of the providers via the provider IM clients using instant messaging services offered by IM service providers . Further the system manager maintains a local availability status of provider s based on availability information previously sent by the provider s via the provider IM clients . For example the system manager maintains a buddy list identifying each of the providers registered to perform work and can be notified when any one of the providers are online and available. The system manager may also records request s assigned to each provider s and can notify the provider via IM that a request is available for the provider s . For example requesters can check the buddy list of the system manager to see if there are providers available to perform tasks such as searching within a particular category as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 336 928 titled A SCALABLE SEARCH SYSTEM USING HUMAN SEARCHERS inventor Scott A. Jones filed Jan. 23 2006 translating a piece of text or identifying an individual from a photograph. For ease of explanation the system manager the system database the system IM clients and the requester are shown in as separate components of the system however their functionality may be executed on a single server.

As discussed above the system in provides instant message notifications to service providers using instant messaging functionality of the IM services providers . When a provider does not have an IM service available from any of the IM services providers shown in to receive an IM notification system providing instant message notifications to service providers using a proprietary IM service may be used as illustrated in . As shown in system includes server system IM clients requester system database web server system IM interface and provider IM clients . The requester receives requests for work from human requester s such as human requester and human requester shown in via any of the devices described above. Upon receipt of the requests for work system provides IM notifications to providers via either or both the provider IM clients and or the system IM clients system IM client through system IM client using various instant messaging services as discussed above.

In addition to the system IM clients system provides an independent instant messaging capability to providers that may not have existing IM accounts using provider IM clients connected to the server via network and system IM interface . A provider may create an IM account by downloading the provider IM client offered by the system when the provider does not have an IM account or does not want to use existing instant messaging services such as those offered by MSN Messenger AIM ICQ etc. Instant messaging user interface of the provider IM clients may be provided via a floating window similar to typical IM windows supported by IM service providers or using a window embedded within a provider application similar to the search system discussed in application Ser. No. 11 336 928. For ease of explanation the server the system database the system IM clients and the system IM interface are shown in as separate components of the system however their functionality may be executed on a single server.

The system further includes system database storing information of provider s requester s and requests received facilitating provider and requester registration and request submission. The web server provides a web based registration page for registering provider s and or requester s with the system and a web based submission page for enabling the provider s and the requester s to enter keywords and other data to describe their abilities and request details such as keywords URLs text or any other relevant data respectively. For example a requester who submits a request may access a web page on the web server using any Internet connected device such as a personal computer a cell phone a PDA etc. and submit a request form describing the task to be completed. The request from the user is submitted to the server and subsequently an IM notification is sent to at least one of the provider s using one of the system IM clients and or the system IM interface . Submission of a request and correlation of the request to a provider is explained in detail below with respect to .

An exemplary process for providing IM notifications to providers is illustrated in . As shown in process begins with registering a provider. The provider may become aware of a request task in response to IM notification or based on public knowledge such as advertisements word of mouth news and announcements etc. industry level solicitation through which a particular industry or field of expertise is targeted and or through other provider s who have already registered and cause a notification to be sent to the provider via IM or e mail with a URL link to a registration page on the web server shown in .

Registering a provider includes capturing information of the provider which may include IM credentials of the provider identifying the provider within a corresponding instant messaging service e.g. account information for MSN Yahoo etc. used by the provider. A confirmation message including a Uniform Resource Locator URL will be sent to the provider using the captured IM credentials to verify the IM account used by the provider and a default password to be used at initial logon. If the provider does not have an IM account the provider is able to download the system s IM clients illustrated in . Registration is described in detail below with respect to .

After registering process continues with associating the provider with a category or keyword s such as area of interest e.g. neurology skill set e.g. PhD type of work e.g. surgery or other identifier. The provider may identify category keyword area of interest skill set type of work or another identifier that describes the provider and allows instant message notifications of requests. The provider may or may not need to be an expert in the specific subject matter or category but at least should be capable of performing the work requested. The term keyword may include one or more keywords and keyphrases i.e. groups of keywords that have collective meaning that can include multiple keywords as well as natural language sentences that can be analyzed to extract keywords and keyphrases.

The system may also parse through descriptive text input by the provider during provider registration and automatically associate the provider with a category keyword word or keyphrase based on information input by the provider. For example when the provider indicates himself or herself as an expert in areas associated with health e.g. Neurologist or identifies an area of interest identifiable by the system as related to health e.g. Respiratory Therapist the provider is associated with a category health and keyword s therapist respiratory . The category or keyword associated with the provider is used to identify request s for which the provider has matching skills in order to assign suitable requests to the provider. Subsequently the category and or keyword s associated with the provider may be updated by the provider or the system manager as the provider fulfills requests or other data is made available to the system which would further qualify the keywords associated with the provider. A provider may also be associated with multiple categories or keywords and receive requests correlated to those category s or keywords.

Subsequently when a request is received by system manager or server and the provider has been associated with a category or keyword process continues by correlating the request to provider s based on category s or keyword s associated with provider s . For example a request from a user relating to appraisal of an antique is correlated to provider s associated with a category or keyword related to appraisal and or antique. A keyword database and taxonomy offered by Trellian may be used to associate keywords with categories and several levels of sub categories as per the DMOZ directory structure so that if a provider cannot be found associated with a specific keyword then a category or subcategory that is associated with that keyword may be utilized to find a provider who is at least in the same category or subcategory.

Based on the correlation process continues by sending an instant message notification to sufficiently correlated provider s of the request. For example an instant message using MSN Messenger will be sent to the provider using the IM credentials of the provider obtained during registering of the provider. The instant message notifies the provider of the request provides a description of the work references additional information of the request etc. and preferably includes a URL which may launch an application to communicate with web enabled services for performing the work contained in the request as described in detail below with respect to .

In a preferred embodiment registering is performed as illustrated in . A provider accesses a registration page via a provider browser and uses a form on the registration page to enter data of the provider to register for IM notification s of work requests. The provider submits identification information including IM credentials or IM alias to registration process executing on e.g. server . Information of the provider captured by registration process includes IM credentials geographic information Internet Protocol IP address and other information about the provider that may qualify and or associate keywords with the provider. The keywords may subsequently be used to correlate the provider to request s .

When the provider accesses the registration page for registering as a provider to receive instant message notification the provider has an option of registering to use the system IM clients via system IM interface or an existing IM account offered by one of the IM service providers which communicates with system manager or server via system IM clients .

The registration process sends a message containing a verification URL to the provider s instant message account using system IM clients or system IM interface that corresponds to the IM service selected by the provider. The provider clicks on the URL in the instant message to begin a sequence of operations to complete registration. In response the registration page sends a verification IM which includes unique ID and password generated for logging in provider . For example a message including the password for logging in and a URL which is a link to the registration page and a cookie with a unique ID for a provider is sent to the MSN Messenger account of a provider who has specified the MSN Messenger account for registration.

The provider is directed to a registration verification page that prompts the provider to enter the password sent with the verification IM. Upon the provider s input of the password the provider is verified and added to the buddy list as a provider who can be notified of a request using IM notifications. The registration verification page may send additional registration information to the provider via the provider browser .

A request from the requester may also be submitted using the requester via an API as shown in . The API enables exchange of data between requester submitting request from requester and the server as illustrated in . The requester is a user requesting a task to be completed. A request can be submitted using a device such as desktop or laptop computer handheld computer personal digital assistant PDA basic cellular telephone text enabled cellular telephone or other device capable of submitting a request via the requester and or web server using the request page . A request submitted from the requester can be a natural language query e.g. a fully stated question a set of keywords or other data. Alternatively the request might be submitted by voice input stating the type of work required and or selecting a desired skill set from a list. The requester may also receive voice requests via a basic cellular telephone a text enabled cellular telephone a specialized device or any other source that allows the requester to enter a request. For example a system similar to the search system discussed in application Ser. No. 11 336 928.

The completed request page is delivered to request manager as a new request. The new request whether submitted using the request page or the requester is correlated to provider s in accordance with a selection process . For example each provider that is associated with the category health is identified during the selection process when the request contains keyword s correlated to the category health . Similarly when a request submitted is correlated with the category basketball the selection process selects registered provider s that have keyword s or categories correlated to basketball . As such the selection process selecting the provider s is able to assign the request in real time to providers in the database of provider s most strongly correlated to the request.

The selection process may include a ranking component that ranks two or more provider s correlated to the request to determine suitability of the provider s to fulfill the request. Ranking of provider s enables targeting a request to a specific group person or globally to allow selection of the best possible provider to fulfill the request at any given time based on the data available to the system. Provider s may be ranked for example based on requester ratings of previous request s time interval required to fulfill the request geographic proximity to a location from which a request originated or any other relevant criteria. For example a provider who has successfully completed 90 of requests assigned to the provider would be ranked higher than another provider who has successfully completed 60 of the requests assigned. However the ranking component of the selection process is not limited to any particular criteria for ranking provider s against a request and any factor pertinent to a request may be considered in ranking provider s .

Provider session manager in maintains a record of active provider s that are available to accept request s . The provider session manager determines availability of selected provider s to fulfill the request as determined by the selection process . For example the provider session manager uses IM credentials of providers such as the buddy list for determining availability status of the providers and creates a list of available provider s when a request is received. Availability status of providers may be dependent upon IM systems of the providers for example determination of availability status may be accomplished via the buddy list. The provider session manager may have its own account or accounts on the IM systems so that it is able to communicate with providers on each of the IM systems and detect when providers are available. The system may communicate with existing IM systems of providers using technologies such as Extensible Messaging and Presense Protocol XMPP and the open source implementation components of Jabber. Accordingly the provider session manager determines whether any of the providers is available without interrupting the providers enabling efficient distribution of requests.

An aggregate list of available provider s selected to fulfill the new request is created by the selection process . The provider session manager may transmit notification to the requester via the request manager . The request manager notifies provider session to provide an IM notification to the selected available provider s concurrently or sequentially describing the request using system IM clients and or system IM interface not shown in . In the case of concurrent notification the provider session will periodically resend notification until the request is accepted by at least one provider or the time period for responding to the request has expired. A provider may accept a request by acknowledging receipt of the IM notification and or by replying to the IM notification sending an e mail using a GUI interface e.g. clicking on a button on an IM notification window etc.

Further if more than one provider is required to fulfill the request the request manager continues notifying selected providers until the required number of providers acknowledge the notification or accept the request. When a provider accepts a request the status of that provider is updated in the provider session manager . For example when a provider accepts a request that provider may be removed from the list of selected providers available to fulfill a request.

The notification describing the request may include a time frame during which to send notification s to provider s during which time the provider s can accept the request and within which the task s described in the request are to be completed by the provider s . For example the notification sent by the request manager may be sent at a future point in time the provider s can accept or decline the request within the specified period of time and provider s in receipt of the notification s may have a specified time period within which the task s described in the request must be completed.

Depending on the nature of the request providers may be sequentially notified of the request. For example a notification of a request sent to a provider who does not respond to the notification within a time period set automatically or by the requester may be renewed and or sent to other provider s selected to fulfill the request e.g. in the order of the ranking as determined by the selection process . The notification renewal time period may vary according to the details of the request i.e. the request specifies a time interval or end time for fulfillment of the request. In addition instant messaging services such as Skype and others that archive a message to a user who is either not visible or offline to deliver the message the next time the user is online may be used to deliver a notification of a request.

When at least one of the providers has acknowledged the notification and or accepted the request the request manager may sends a notification to the provider session to indicate to the IM clients of providers that have not accepted the request and or the system IM interface removing the notification or indicating that the request has been accepted by other provider s . Upon acceptance of the request by the specified number of providers the request manager may send an acknowledgement notification to the requester

The request manager instructs the provider session manager to set the state of the request to indicate that fulfillment of the request is in progress. The request manger also delivers the request to the provider session . The IM notification may include description of the work or task to be completed a string of characters as a URL that is recognizable by typical IM clients as a link to a Web Server page or a link to an application for performing the work that causes the application to be launched via the provider user interface UI . For example Java Web Start may be used to enable a Java application to be directly started on the desktop of provider s . Using Java Web Start technology standalone Java software applications can be deployed with a single click over the network for example via a URL link such as what is delivered to one or more providers as part of the IM message. Java Web Start may also be implemented to ensure that the most current version of an application program used by providers will be deployed as well as the correct version of the Java Runtime Environment JRE . For example a URL will point to a Java Network Launching Protocol and API JNLP page on the web server which provides all of the deployment and launching configuration settings needed in order for Java Web Start to launch the application on a provider s desktop.

In addition the request may be delegated to other provider s using a URL that has mail to information and may include title of a mail message. The URL may launch for example a default mail application with recipient information already completed based on information maintained in the database for enabling an e mail notification to be sent to deliver the request.

After a request has been fulfilled the provider sends a notification to the system manager which may be sent to the requester using a device such as desktop computer laptop computer cell phone telephones personal digital assistants or other devices that can access the web server or the server . Upon receipt of the notification the requester may indicate that request was fulfilled and rate the provider s performance using a form on the request page which is communicated to the request manager . The request manager locates the provider fulfilled the request from the requester based on the ID of provider s determined via the provider session manager and may change the status and update the ranking of the provider. The provider may also be notified of the requester rating or other data from the requester via IM notification sent via the system IM clients and or the system IM interface .

After starting process moves to determining if a selected provider s exists to fulfill the request. Upon determining that there is no selected provider s for the request process continues to filtering the list of registered providers to find a selected provider. For example filtering includes searching through all provider s that are available until at least one provider associated with the keyword s of the request is available or finding a provider that matches some subset of the keyword s associated with the request. When it is determined that at least one selected provider exists the request process moves to sending IM notification of the request to the selected provider s .

Subsequent to sending IM notification to provider s process verifies whether the IM notification is acknowledged by selected provider s . Upon determining that the IM notification is acknowledged process moves to setting status of request as accepted. If it is determined that the IM notification is not acknowledged by the selected provider s selection database is updated and process returns to determining if a selected provider exists. For example updating includes repeatedly sending the IM notification to selected but unavailable provider s that did not acknowledge the IM notification until the IM notification is acknowledged .

When a provider receives the request IM notification via an instant messaging service of the system IM client and or provider IM a shown in the provider may click on the URL contained in the request to launch an application for performing the task requested. This may also send back an acknowledgement to the server by IM. The work description may include an indication s of how the work may be accomplished the requested delivery time the format of the work and other details of the request. For example the URL directly launches the ChaCha Guide application on the desktop of the provider using Java Web Start. However the URL is not limited to launching the ChaCha Guide application and components similar to Java Web Start for example an applet which can be distributed as a link in the IM notification and executed. A web browser may be used to launch an application linked to a URL which can assist in fulfilling the request.

If there is no change in availability status process moves to monitor or evaluate availability status. Upon determining that there is change in availability status of provider s process proceeds to update database . For example change of availability status includes evaluating a provider s logged on or logged off flag and comparing the current value to the previous value obtained from the database etc. When there is a change of availability status of a provider s process updates availability status in the database for the provider s . For example a list of available provider s maintained by the provider session manager is updated to reflect when a provider logs on or logs off from an IM client of the provider s .

The updating of availability status in the database may be requested or triggered only when online status and or other parameters of provider s is changed by an event at the IM client s of the provider s . For example online status or other parameters stored in the provider application or the provider s system are updated to the database when they are changed by local events.

An exemplary diagram of a system managing and monitoring an online provider workforce is illustrated in . As shown in system enables users to submit requests to the system manager using communication devices such as computer handheld device mobile phone landline phone via network . The system manager communicates with provider IM services and or applications such as AIM MSN Yahoo and other IM service s via network . The system manager checks availability of selected provider s updates the provider s availability status and allows provider s to modify availability. For example the provider s may choose not available status for a given period of time subsequent to logging into the providers IM services.

The system shown in maintains persistent connection to a base of human service provider s using the instant messaging services offered via AIM MSN Yahoo and other IM service s and provides notifications to the provider s . The system further facilitates fulfillment of request s by interacting with users submitting requests via the computer handheld device mobile or landline phone . As described with respect to the database maintains records of requests requesters and providers.

The system manager sends requests to available provider s that are selected to fulfill the requests displays information to the provider s such as amounts earned for completed requests amounts that could have been earned while unavailable etc. The system manager allows providers to become part of the online workforce by simply clicking a link to an Internet address URL and entering corresponding IM address instant messaging network such as MSN AIM Yahoo or ICQ and optionally indicating areas of interest and or expertise.

As further illustrated in provider status and IM online status with respect to provider though provider is maintained in provider table in the system. For example the provider status with respect to provider is indicated as inactive when for example provider is in the process of handling a request and the IM online status is updated to available when the provider signs into an IM service.

As shown in a simplified example of a table relationship between requests have contents that correlate with a category or keyword that are associated with providers . The sample database entries illustrate correlation between the requests and the providers using the category or keyword . For example request a has who won the 2002 NBA championship and may be associated with the category basketball because NBA may be a high ranking keyword in the category basketball. Similarly requests and have flu prevention methods and Indian restaurant in Indiana as contents respectively. The contents and corresponding to requests and respectively are associated with category health and restaurants in Indiana which correlate to providers Tom Cooper and Brad Bostic . As such the selection process correlates the content of requests category s or keyword s associated with providers to determine selection of the providers to fulfill the requests . More detail regarding associating keywords and or categories with a provider or searcher may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 336 928 titled A SCALABLE SEARCH SYSTEM USING HUMAN SEARCHERS.

The many features and advantages of the embodiments are apparent from the detailed specification and thus it is intended by the appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the embodiments that fall within the true spirit and scope thereof. Further since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation illustrated and described for the disclosed embodiments and accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling within the scope thereof. It will further be understood that the phrase at least one of A B and C may be used herein as an alternative expression that means one or more of A B and C. 

