---

title: Dynamic total asset management system (TAMS) and method for managing building facility services
abstract: According to an embodiment, a dynamic system and method for managing facility services that utilize scheduled predefined events and/or unscheduled variable events, are discussed. The dynamic system can include one or more servers, mobile devices, imaging devices, etc. designed and programmed to receive, manage, control, and/or report events from designated users. The dynamic system effectively manages the flow of work, efficiency of work and quality of work, and provides a common platform for communications within organizations, with their customers, and suppliers. The system can be effectively utilized by all service businesses and production operations to manage work flow, improve quality, minimize costs, and maximize labor utilization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07634598&OS=07634598&RS=07634598
owner: Permanent Solution Industries, Inc.
number: 07634598
owner_city: Alexandria
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060816
---
This Nonprovisional application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e on U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 708 779 filed on Aug. 17 2005 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention generally relates to a dynamic system for managing tasks and task related information and more specifically to a dynamic system and method for managing building facility services and other services that utilize scheduled predefined events and or unscheduled variable events. More particularly the invention relates to a dynamic system and a method for managing work flow work efficiency and work quality using data transfer between a server computer and a plurality of mobile devices imaging devices and or computers designed and programmed to receive define manage control and or report events from designated users.

Managing building facility services typically involves multiple processes departments systems and personnel that have suffered from no or poor integration in the past. Conventional systems focus on the primary process of performing physical work work orders or tasks that are used in and around buildings to define the way things are intended to be done. However this is only one aspect of managing building facility services. To have an effective and efficient system companies need to define measure and track labor resources material resources contract deliverables union requirements financial objectives quality expectations incentives how to perform the work and more from one system. In conventional systems however most of these objectives are managed manually or some are not managed at all incurring high labor costs or are partially done with only rudimentary work order automated processes and little to no system integration which is a problem.

There are computer implemented systems that attempt to manage work orders provide rudimentary quality assurance and communicate with vendors. However these systems are very limited in scope and require heavy user intervention and user involvement. Also these systems fail to integrate all of the system components that are needed to provide an effective and efficient service which is a problem.

The present invention achieves the objectives that are necessary to define communicate track manage and report on business goals.

One object of the present invention to provide a comprehensive integrated dynamic system and method for automatically effectively and efficiently managing building facility services and other types of task requiring services with minimal or no user intervention and with complete mobility.

Another object of the present invention is to provide computer software that can run on hardware e.g. server portable device etc. that allows comprehensive and automated integration and management of information used to provide building facility services and other types of task requiring services.

Another object of the present invention is to provide portable connectivity to aspects of the entire building facility or other task requiring services process which allows users to perform their duties from anywhere in the world at any time.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a common communications platform for all aspects of building facility or other task requiring services and a method that permits simple and quick communications between every user whether they are office based or mobile and whether they are a customer an employee a vendor a consultant a regulatory agency a quality control inspector an investor or other interested party.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide automation features to daily work flow that define select quantify measure process manage and or report status changes that are of interest to designated users e.g. managers to improve efficiency.

A further object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for defining measuring managing and reporting employee work efficiency to improve daily operations and maximize financial returns.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a system and method for managing building facility or other task requiring services which address the limitations and disadvantages associated with the background art.

According to one aspect the present invention provides a dynamic system for managing tasks to be completed the system comprising at least one server and at least one portable device configured to communicate with the at least one server wherein a first device among the at least one server and the at least one portable device generates work orders automatically creates a work order schedule based on at least the work orders and transmits work related information including the work order schedule and or the work orders to at least one second device among the at least one server and the at least one portable device.

According to another aspect the present invention provides a dynamic system for managing labor resources the system comprising at least one server and at least one portable device including an image capturing unit configured to capture an image of a user and configured to communicate with the at least one server wherein the at least one portable device transmits the captured images of the users with other user data to the at least one server and the at least one server receives the other user data and the captured images of the users and automatically generates and stores employee record files of the users based on the received user data and captured images.

According to another aspect the present invention provides a dynamic system for managing tasks to be completed the system comprising at least one server and at least one portable device configured to communicate with the at least one server wherein a first device among the at least one server and the at least one portable device generates quality assurance instructions automatically creates a quality assurance schedule based on at least the quality assurance instructions and transmits quality assurance information including the quality assurance schedule and or the quality assurance instructions to at least one second device among the at least one server and the at least one portable device.

According to another aspect the present invention provides a portable communication device for managing tasks to be completed the device comprising a communication unit configured to communicate with other devices via a network and a controller configured to generate work orders to automatically create a work order schedule based on at least the work orders and to transmit work related information including the work order schedule and or the work orders to the other devices via the network.

According to another aspect the present invention provides a portable communication device for managing tasks to be completed the device comprising a communication unit configured to communicate with other devices via a network and a controller configured to generate quality assurance instructions to automatically creates a quality assurance schedule based on at least the quality assurance instructions and to transmit quality assurance information including the quality assurance schedule and or the quality assurance instructions to the other devices via the network.

According to another aspect the present invention provides a dynamic system for managing work performance and or work conditions the system comprising at least one server and at least one portable device including an image capturing unit configured to capture an image of work performance and or work conditions and configured to communicate with the at least one server wherein the at least one portable device transmits the captured images of the work performance and or work conditions with other work data to the at least one server and the at least one server receives the other work data and the captured images of the work performance and or work conditions and automatically generates and stores work record files of the work performance and or work conditions on the received work data and captured images.

According to another aspect the present invention provides a dynamic system for managing work quality and or quality conditions the system comprising at least one server and at least one portable device including an image capturing unit configured to capture an image of work quality and or quality conditions and configured to communicate with the at least one server wherein the at least one portable device transmits the captured images of the work quality and or quality conditions with other quality data to the at least one server and the at least one server receives the other quality data and the captured images of the work quality and or quality conditions and automatically generates and stores quality record files of the work quality and or quality conditions based on the received quality data and captured images.

These and other objects of the present application will become more readily apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However it should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.

The present invention encompasses a dynamic system and method for managing events that transpire throughout the work day in facilities or other places the system or method being of the type that utilizes scheduled predefined events and or unscheduled variable events to carry out managing building facility services and other services. The dynamic system can include one or more servers mobile devices imaging devices and or computers designed and programmed to receive manage control and or report events among designated users. The dynamic system further communicates via both hard wired and or wireless connection means with one or more designated users each of which can have a unique login identity e.g. ID and password . The dynamic system effectively manages the flow of work efficiency of work and quality of work and provides a common platform for communications within organizations with their customers and suppliers.

In the present application whenever the term dynamic system is used it should be understood that it can mean only the computer software that provides the operations discussed and that such computer software can run any hardware.

The dynamic system can be effectively utilized by all service businesses to manage work flow improve quality and maximize labor utilization. Some of the applications for the dynamic system include but are not limited to janitorial services facility maintenance services engineering services landscaping services plumbing services electrical services snow removal services construction services pool maintenance services property management security services medical services waste removal services and employee dispatch operations.

According to the present invention the dynamic system can be utilized for multiple locations multiple buildings and or multiple customers.

Work Order Schedules the dynamic system of the present invention automatically generates and updates work orders from the tasks to be performed on a periodic basis or as desired to achieve the desired performance of workers. Work orders can include a set of specific instructions and other information e.g. job location equipment needed etc. to get each of the work orders completed. The dynamic system of the present invention also schedules the work orders based upon e.g. their desired start time and frequency and any other requirement and thereby automatically generates and updates a work order schedule. The work order schedule can be a schedule of one or more jobs and indicates information pertaining to the job s schedule such as who will do what job when and with what equipment etc. Projects or work can be scheduled directly into the work order schedule as needed. In contrast conventional systems have inefficient batch oriented or static work order schedules that demand excessive labor resources to provide individual route schedules or work instructions that are provided one at a time.

The present invention dramatically improves work efficiency and communications by continuously providing dynamic e.g. can be updated constantly in real time or as requested work order schedules that can be automatically sent viewed and or modified utilizing the portable devices such as a PDA a mobile phone a laptop computer a smart phone etc.

Quality Assurance Schedule conventional systems utilize inefficient static quality assurance schedules that demand excessive labor resources to provide individual route schedules. In contrast the quality assurance schedule of the present invention can be automatically generated and or directed by closing work orders utilizing the portable devices thereby dramatically improving work efficiency and communications by continuously providing dynamic quality assurance schedules that can be automatically sent viewed and or modified. The quality assurance schedule can be a schedule of quality assurance quality control inspections of the work orders once the work orders are initially finished. Some work actually requires that such inspection be made by a certain time period according to the requirements. The dynamic system of the present invention also automatically manages the quality control process. According to an embodiment the dynamic system of the present invention can utilize random sequence generators with weighted results to improve spot checking performance. The quality assurance schedule can be directed entirely in random fashion or can be implemented on a pre determined schedule or a mix of both. Quality assurance can also be performed without a schedule or a combination of scheduled and unscheduled.

Employee Timekeeping Status Changes on Work Order and or Quality Assurance Schedules conventional systems do not tie employee attendance to work orders which seriously detracts from work performance without excessive labor resources to track employee rosters each shift. Utilizing the present invention if an employee is early or late beyond a pre set time or does not show for work such employee timekeeping information or status change information is automatically utilized by the dynamic system of the present invention such that the work orders scheduled for that employee can visually change e.g. change in text color font graphics messages etc. automatically in the work order schedule or quality assurance schedule if the worker is a quality assurance worker and or also in the specific work order or quality assurance inspection order that the employee was responsible to complete. Visual changes can also be accompanied by messages and or audio cues or messages and or audio cues can be used alone. The automation in tracking and notification of employee timekeeping status changes of the present invention greatly improves work efficiency and work performance quality.

In addition the present invention allows work order status changes to be highlighted by visual changes in the work order schedule text color font graphics messages etc. . In contrast conventional systems do not automatically show work order status changes which is inefficient and demands excessive labor to maintain communications. Utilizing the present invention as work progresses throughout the day work order status changes are automatically tracked graphically on the work order and or quality assurance schedules for each work order. Some of the status designations the dynamic system can utilize are but not limited to Requested Open On Hold Cancelled Completed Re Work and No Show. Visual changes can also be accompanied by messages and or audio cues or messages and or audio cues can be used alone. The automation in tracking and notifying work order status changes of the present invention greatly improves work efficiency and communications.

Further conventional systems do not account for varied work efficiency of individual employees or work crews which leads to poor work planning and excessive use of labor to complete work orders. In contrast the present invention automatically adjusts the work order schedule based on the efficiency rating e.g. work efficiency attendance etc. of each employee on each work order and or entire work crews on each work order. The automation in tracking and calculation of the work efficiency of the present invention greatly improves work efficiency and allows for enhanced tracking of individual and group efficiency dynamics.

Conventional systems utilize inefficient batch oriented or static work order instructions to communicate work requirements. In contrast in order to facilitate rapid communication and minimize human intervention the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically send receive view and or modify work orders and work order instructions utilizing the portable devices. The automation in providing dynamic work instructions greatly improves work efficiency and communications.

In conventional systems pictures and other image data may be physically attached e.g. stapled to the work order or work order instructions to allow a worker to complete the job and thus the conventional systems do not allow for on site determinations of issues and documentation of events. In contrast to speed up developing and completing work order instructions the dynamic system of the present invention allows for on site determinations of issues and provides improved documentation of events by providing the capability to automatically send and or receive imaging data e.g. pictures diagrams etc. related to the work inspection directly into a work order or quality assurance order record or the server database by utilizing the portable devices.

Also conventional systems do not track work order status which greatly inhibits communication of work completion and management of resources that may be required to intervene should work orders be delayed and do not provide efficiency metrics. In contrast by automatically opening and or closing scheduled and or unscheduled work orders utilizing the portable devices the dynamic system of the present invention can track a work order through its life cycle as it moves through different stages such as Requested Open On Hold Ready to QC quality control Cancelled Re Work Completed and other stages. In addition by collecting the actual start times and end times for work order completions the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically calculate the actual costs associated with the work and compare it to budgeted costs whereby cost analysis for each work completed or to be done can be automatically generated. Further the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically determine employee work efficiency metrics for individuals and or groups with actual work order completion metrics. Notifications of work progress to designated users e.g. managers etc. can also be provided automatically by the dynamic system of the present invention so as to improve communications and facilitate better planning of available resources.

The present invention also includes a graphical display of work order status allowing users e.g. managers field works on the current job or other job inspectors etc. to view all work orders and their status or drill down to an individual work order. The dynamic system of the present invention can also include work order integration with conventional clock in clock out type of hardware software to graphically designate late or no show employee status for each designated work.

In addition according to the present invention work order time to completion can be automatically calculated to determine the employee labor efficiency rating e.g. how efficient is the employee in completing a task for each employee scheduled to complete the work and or their associated work crews. This greatly enhances the ability to predict actual work completion times to improve efficiency of allocation of the available resources.

Furthermore according to the present invention time to completion and budgeting can be automatically updated by the dynamic system for each employee scheduled to complete a task.

Conventional systems utilize inefficient batch oriented or static quality assurance instructions to communicate quality assurance requirements. In contrast in order to facilitate rapid communication and minimize human intervention the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically send receive view and or modify quality assurance quality control inspections and quality assurance instructions utilizing the portable devices. The automation in providing the dynamic quality assurance instructions greatly improves work efficiency and communications.

Conventional systems utilize static imaging data in quality assurance instructions that do not allow for on site determinations of issues and documentation of events. In contrast in order to speed up developing and completing quality assurance instructions allow for on site determinations of issues provide improved documentation of events provide targeted corrective action and improve training protocols the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically send and or receive imaging data directly into a quality assurance inspection record utilizing the portable devices.

Conventional systems do not tie at all the quality assurance inspections to the work order schedule which is inefficient and greatly inhibits communication of work completion. In contrast according to the present invention quality assurance can be directly tied to work performed in the work order schedule. When a work order closes e.g. the work is initially finished by a worker the dynamic system of the present invention automatically opens a corresponding quality assurance inspection order in the quality assurance schedule and automatically notifies appropriate quality assurance inspectors and or other designated system users of available inspection sites e.g. by directly updating their quality assurance schedules or sending an e mail to them. This is extremely helpful to the quality assurance inspectors who wish to inspect finished work and to improve their work efficiency. It is also helpful to other designated system users e.g. managers etc. who wish to track the progress of work throughout a facility.

Conventional systems do not track the quality assurance inspection status status indicating the progress on the quality control inspection which greatly inhibits communication of work completion and management of resources that may be required to intervene should work orders fail the inspection and do not provide efficiency metrics. In contrast by automatically opening and or closing scheduled and or unscheduled quality assurance inspections utilizing the portable devices the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically track each quality assurance inspection through its life cycle as it moves through different stages such as Requested Open On Hold Cancelled Re Work Completed and other stages. In addition by collecting the actual start times and end times for the quality assurance inspection completion the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically generate the actual costs associated with a job and compare it with budgeted costs for financial analysis. According to the present invention also employee work efficiency metrics can be automatically determined for individuals and or groups with actual quality assurance inspection completion metrics using the time and other status information. Further according to the present invention instant notifications of work progress to the designated users can be provided which provides improved communications and facilitates better planning of the available resources.

In addition if a quality assurance inspection fails the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically notify designated users e.g. system administrators managers etc. of the failed quality assurance inspection and then automatically reschedule the work by generating a Re work work order so that the work can be completed properly. The dynamic system can automatically notify the designated users of the scheduled Re work work order to provide and or clarify a corrective action and improve response times. This greatly improves work efficiency response times and communications to complete the job properly.

Conventional systems utilize inefficient batch oriented or static employee rosters to communicate work assignments. In contrast in order to minimize human intervention better plan the work day and determine which employees to place on specific tasks the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically send receive view and or modify employee rosters utilizing the portable devices. The employ roster can indicate each employee s schedule e.g. who showed up for what task etc. The automation in providing the dynamic employee rosters greatly improves work efficiency and communications.

Conventional systems utilize static imaging data in employee profiles that do not allow for on site security determinations. For instance in a conventional system an ID picture of an employee may be physically placed inside the employee s personal file folder. In contrast in order to speed up creating and updating employee profiles e.g. employee personal contact information and or security identification e.g. security clearance for an employee the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically send and or receive imaging data directly and electronically into an employee record or a work and or quality assurance record utilizing the portable devices.

In addition according to the present invention a complete work order schedule for each employee is stored in their electronic employee profile to aid in changes of personnel within the dynamic system.

According to the present invention all supplies and equipment for each location can be electronically stored in the dynamic system including a vendor s inventory at the vendor s warehouses. For instance this can be accomplished by using a vendor managed inventory process of the dynamic system.

Conventional systems utilize inefficient batch oriented or static inventory management systems to communicate current inventory levels and demand excessive labor resources to provide adequate materials for the scheduled work orders. In contrast in order to minimize human intervention better plan inventory requirements and improve inventory carrying costs the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically update the inventory levels of supplies and equipment when a work order is planned generated or has been completed. For instance when the work is completed according to a particular work order the dynamic system can automatically deduct specific levels of supplies specified in the work order from the total inventory levels of supplies and equipment. As a result the dynamic system automatically determines if adequate inventory is available to complete other scheduled tasks which can include materials on order and can notify designated users e.g. administrators managers etc. about the inadequate inventory levels for the other work orders before they are to be completed. Thus using the dynamic system appropriate levels of supplies and equipment can be automatically ordered to ensure completion of subsequent work orders or re work work orders. This greatly reduces work stoppages due to inadequate inventory and allows for more efficient planning of material purchases. When work is performed the dynamic system automatically reduces the inventory appropriately which can allow automatic generation of purchase orders to be sent by the system based on established re order points. This helps ensure that materials are always available to perform all scheduled work.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will now be described by referring to the drawings which are part of the present invention.

Referring to the dynamic system includes one or more servers a database that is run on the server s computer s and one or more portable devices and one or more non portable devices such as desktop computers for communicating with the servers via appropriate connections such as a wired connection and or a wireless connection including e.g. via the Internet an intranet an extranet or other network. In the present application although it may not be specified the servers means the servers including the database . All the components of the dynamic system are operatively coupled and configured.

The database stores therein computer software program s that implements all the operations processes steps of the dynamic system and other data e.g. work orders work order schedules quality assurance schedules employee rosters etc. that is generated by the dynamic system. The present inventors refer to such software program as TAMS program which can be written using computer programming languages. TAMS program database etc. may be available at Permanent Solution Industries PSI Inc. associated with the present inventors. Such computer program s may be stored in portable or other types of storages or memories such as hard drive RAM ROM PROM etc. associated with one or more servers and or portable devices and or non portable devices . Alternatively such computer program s may be stored in a different storage medium such as a USB magnetic disc optical disc magneto optical disc etc. Such computer program s may also take the form of a signal propagating across the Internet extranet intranet or other network and arriving at the destination device for storage and implementation.

The database resides on the server s but if desired can be separate storage medium s accessible by the servers . The portable devices can be but are not limited to computers handheld Personal Digital Assistants PDAs cell phones cell phone PDAs cell phones with camera cell phone PDAs with camera measurement devices and tracking devices. One or more users are associated with each of the portable devices and non portable devices and such users can be but are not limited to employees vendors contractors field workers inspectors managers administrators etc. Some users may only be able to access only certain information from the database using the portable and non portable devices e.g. for security reasons or because such information is not appropriate for that particular user. As such a user may need to login properly to access some information from the database . Generally the non portable devices can be used by supervisors managers administrators coordinators etc. at an office or other central location. For instance a field worker carrying a PDA can go to a remote location of a building facility to complete a task and communicate with a system administrator manager the status of the work by transmitting information from the field worker s PDA to either a desktop computer of the manager at the office or a mobile terminal of the manager at another remote location.

The servers including the database can automatically capture store translate calculate and or communicate a wide variety of data over the Internet or other wired or wireless connections to the portable devices and the non portable devices . Similarly each of the portable devices and the non portable devices can also automatically capture store translate calculate and or communicate over the Internet or other wired or wireless connections a wide variety of data to the servers including the database and or to other portable devices and or to other non portable devices e.g. via email fax and or graphic representation and or sound utilizing computers and or devices etc. Appropriate computer software is loaded in each of the portable devices and the non portable devices to enable such communication and processes of the dynamic system.

Data can be but is not limited to work orders re work work orders employee rosters employee records labor information directions schedules e.g. work order schedules re work work order schedules quality assurance schedules etc. work employee efficiency information for employees instructions e.g. work order instructions re work work order instructions quality assurance instructions etc. quality assurance records quality assurance status measurements results of tests such as quality assurance tests directives tracking data schematics graphics feedback change orders quality assurance specifications inventory status service call requests follow ups and sound communication. The imaging data can be but is not limited to pictures video and surveillance images and each of the portable and non portables devices and can generate transmit and receive such imaging data to and from the servers utilizing the database and other devices and . The data can include the imaging data e.g. the work order can include embedded pictures showing how the job should be done. Designated users of the dynamic system interact with the dynamic system using the portable and non portable devices and to send and or receive the data and or imaging data to improve work flow planning efficiency and management of resources.

Particularly illustrates an example of an operation of automatically communicating work orders work order instructions and or work order schedules in the dynamic system according to an embodiment of the present invention.

As shown in a plurality of different work orders are electronically stored in the database . The work order can include the description of the work to be done a location of the work to be done time information e.g. desired start time and duration etc. of the work equipment and supplies needed etc. Then based on the work orders and or the employee information e.g. who is available who is near the work location etc. stored in the database which will be discussed in detail later the servers utilizing the database automatically generate work order schedules . The work order schedule is a schedule of work to be done and indicates schedule information such as which worker s crew s will do which work. One work order schedule can be tailored for one specific worker or crew e.g. for individual use or can include a schedule of different work to be done by different workers and crews e.g. for managerial use . The servers utilizing the database can also consider any other information e.g. security clearance information of employees as needed to assign workers to different jobs to be completed.

Then the servers can automatically send work order information e.g. work orders work order schedules work order instructions changes to each etc. from the database to the portable device s and or the non portable device s using the connections e.g. via a network wired connection wireless connection etc. . The work order information such as the work order schedules and work orders reside in the database and can reside in the portable and non portable devices and . Changes as part of the work order information to the work order schedules and or work orders can be instantly or periodically or upon request by a user communicated to the portable and non portable devices and . The work order information can include but is not limited to schematics operating instructions repair instructions cleaning instructions specifications material requirements part requirements resource availability due dates times scheduling conflicts scheduling changes route schedules and past due work. A user at the portable device e.g. a manager a field worker a crew leader etc. can receive the work order information and carry out or manage the jobs according to the received work order information . The status of the work progress e.g. actual start and end time of the job who is working job completed or not etc. can also be sent from the portable device to the servers and or to the other portable and non portable devices and .

Accordingly the present invention allows all users of the dynamic system to receive and access current work related information at any time and place and allows the system to automatically assign and allocate human and other resources to the jobs to be done and to keep a current record of all job status and resource allocations. Thus there is no or minimal human intervention in the present invention and an effective total management system is provided.

As shown in when a user e.g. a field worker a manager etc. arrives at a particular location where a job is to be performed the user can indicate his arrival time and availability using a location identification tag and or tracking device . For instance the user can scan his ID badge having a barcoded user information into a bar code reader computer located in the job location or using his portable device and or scan a location and or equipment tag that contains encoded information. Then the bar code reader transmits this information e.g. user s identity scanned time date scanned location scanned equipment identification etc. to the servers directly or to the portable device and then the servers via the connections . The servers can then automatically retrieve or update the work order work order instructions and or work order schedule for the identified user in the database . For instance the servers can automatically retrieve and open and update the appropriate work order with work instructions for the identified user and transmit the retrieved information to the user to the user s portable device in the job location so the user can carry out the job according to the work instructions and orders. In the similar manner the user can scan out when the work is finished using the device and the servers can update the completion of the work in the database e.g. the servers can close the work order as being completed. Similarly other statuses of the work can be communicated within the dynamic system and examples of such statuses can be but are not limited to Requested work is requested and scheduled but not done Open work has begun On Hold work is on hold Cancelled work is cancelled Completed work is completed and Ready to Quality Control work is finished and ready for quality control inspection . The user may be able to enter different statues of the work into the device or the portable device in a variety of ways e.g. by selecting a menu item scanning an appropriate label etc. All such work order status information e.g. different statuses of the work etc. can be transmitted automatically or upon request to any other portable or non portable device or via the connections so other users in the system can know of the work status information.

Accordingly the dynamic system of the present invention can automatically and track and update the work progress and employee movement throughout the day by changing the work order status information and or updating the work order schedules and automatically sending receiving the work order status information and or the work order schedules over the Internet or other wired or wireless connections to and or from the database and or portable devices and or non portable devices via e.g. email fax and or graphic representation and or sound utilizing computers and or devices etc.

The location tags and or tracking devices can be but are not limited to barcodes and barcode readers PDA Wand and or Hand Held RFID tags sensors equipment sensors security sensors and satellite integrated portable tracking devices like GPS cell phones and GPS cell phone PDAs. Such a tracking device can be part of a portable device .

As shown in employee timekeeping data for each employee is automatically collected by an employee timekeeping device and or portable device and the system creates employee rosters using such information. The employee roster includes a schedule of each employee e.g. who came to work location of each employee who is absent etc. The employee rosters can be automatically created by the servers utilizing the database from raw employee timekeeping data and or by the employee timekeeping devices and or by the portable or non portable devices . For instance the employee roster can be created by the system automatically using scheduled employee work hours and work order requirements and can be tracked by the dynamic system to help ensure adequate allocation of labor for each of the assigned work orders . The employee timekeeping devices can be but are not limited to clock in clock out equipment such as fingerprint readers magnetic stripe readers barcode readers retinal scanners and or PDAs equipped with similar readers along with security devices intended to permit authorized personnel access to secure areas.

As employees clock in or out the servers including the database automatically update the employee rosters and the servers automatically sends the employee rosters from the database to the portable and non portable devices using the connections via e.g. email fax and or graphic representation utilizing computers and or devices etc. Such transmission may occur in real time periodically or upon a request from a user. Accordingly a user at the portable device or the non portable device can readily know the exact status of each employee.

As shown in employee imaging data e.g. a picture of an employee is captured and or created using the portable devices and or the imaging devices and transmitted over the Internet or other wired or wireless connection to and from the servers including the database . The servers utilizing the database automatically store the employee imaging data directly into employee records . For instance when a new worker arrives at a job location a picture of the worker along with other personnel information of the new worker can be entered by the portable device and or the imaging device at the job location and automatically sent to the servers . The servers can store the picture and personal information of the new worker and create a new employee record file for that employee in the database . That is without having to register each new employee at a central office first the new employees can be registered from remote locations and their information can be automatically stored at the central office using the dynamic system of the present invention. Any changes to the employee s personal information can also be stored in the database in this manner. Thus the dynamic system automatically registers keeps and updates personnel information for each employee regardless of employee location.

Also the employee records including the imaging data can be sent over the Internet or other wired or wireless connections amongst the database the portable devices and the non portable devices via e.g. email fax and or graphic representation utilizing computers and or devices etc. Accordingly the employee records can be automatically communicated to provide positive identification of employees for security and other business purposes as well as any training certificates and or professional certifications acquired by employees to facilitate personnel documentation requirements.

For instance the servers utilizing the database compare the work order schedules the specification or requirements of the work orders and the employee rosters and assign appropriate employees to carry out the work orders. The work order schedules can be updated to include the assignment of employees for each task. Also the servers utilizing the database can review the current work order schedules in view of the work orders and the employee rosters e.g. who is available who is absent etc. and determine if any changes may be needed to complete the work. If the dynamic system determines that there is a deficiency in the number of workers currently available to complete a particular work order based on the analysis then the servers utilizing the database can reassign or swap the employees to the works and or reschedule the works and can communicate such information e.g. labor deficiency information to any of the portable devices e.g. at the job locations etc. and the non portable devices e.g. at the central office . As a result a manger or worker can know at all times how the job should be carried out in the future and if any additional members will join to complete the job.

As shown in the quality assurance information e.g. quality assurance instructions providing quality control inspection instructions quality assurance schedules providing schedules of the quality control inspections updates or changes thereof etc. is information about the quality control inspections to be performed once certain works have been finished so as to ensure that the finished works meet certain criteria and requirements. In some sense the quality control inspection can be considered a specific type of work i.e. a work to be completed by an inspector. Not all work may require quality control inspections.

Similar to the way the work orders work order instructions and work order schedules are generated in connection with the dynamic system e.g. the servers including the database in communication with the portable or non portable devices generates the quality assurance information including the quality assurance instructions and the quality assurance schedule and stores it in the database and or their respective storage units . Such information is also updated in real time or periodically and automatically communicated to any of other portable and non portable devices and over the Internet or other wired or wireless connections . The portable and non portable devices and can automatically generate capture store translate calculate and or send the quality assurance information over the Internet or other wired or wireless connections to the database and or to other portable devices and or to other non portable devices via e.g. email fax and or graphic representation utilizing computers and or devices etc.

Quality assurance instructions can include but are not limited to specifications diagrams flow charts graphics quality inspection methodology quality assurance work flow work change order updates and or critical inspection criteria. Quality assurance information is dynamic and can be updated automatically periodically in real time upon request and or whenever a connection to the system is made.

Accordingly in addition to the processes of the dynamic system of the present invention can also allow the quality assurance information to be communicated amongst the various users of the system automatically periodically in real time and or upon request such that the inspectors users and others can use such information to carry out the inspections and communicate quality assurance status and other information regarding the inspections to the servers including the database and other users at remote or central locations.

As shown in the dynamic system provides changing quality assurance inspection status information e.g. status on each inspection etc. and or updating the quality assurance schedules and automatically sending receiving the quality assurance inspection status information and or quality assurance schedules over the Internet or other wired or wireless connections to and from the servers including the database and or the portable devices and or the non portable devices via e.g. email fax and or graphic representation and or sound utilizing computers and or devices etc.

The quality assurance status information can be automatically sent to the servers including the database directly or via the non portable devices and or portable devices from the location tags and or tracking devices identifying work progression such as Requested inspection requested Open inspection has begun On Hold inspection is on hold Cancelled inspection has been cancelled Needs Improvement finished job needs improvement Project Work Failed inspection failed and Completed inspection passed and thus the work has been completed fully . Other examples of the different states of the inspections can be used and communicated amongst the servers the portable devices the non portable devices and the tracking devices .

For instance similar to the processes involved with the work order operations of in a user e.g. an inspector etc. can input his ID information along with any other information e.g. inspection start time location equipment identification etc. to the servers using the tracking device and or the portable device . Then the servers can store such information in the database and can automatically generate and or update the quality assurance schedule based on the received information. The user can also input a status of quality control inspection as the quality assurance status information to the servers which can be automatically stored and updated in the database . Any portable device and non portable device can access the quality assurance status information and other information e.g. quality assurance schedule quality assurance record etc. from the database . Communications and updates of the quality assurance information and other information can be made in real time periodically automatically and or upon request.

Accordingly the present invention systematically allows inspectors to easily carry out appropriate inspections and provides status on such inspections back to the dynamic system which allows the servers to automatically utilize and update all relevant information stored in the database based on the received information. As such all current information pertaining to work and inspections can be automatically generated updated and made available for access by all users of the dynamic system at any time and place.

As shown in once a worker finishes the work according to the work order then the worker can indicate to the servers including the database and or other users in the system that the work order is completed work is finished using the connections via e.g. email fax and or graphic representation and or sound utilizing computers and or devices etc. In addition if applicable such work completed information can indicate that the finished work is thus now ready for an inspection. As a variation such work completed information can indicate that the work is finished and the finished work has passed the inspection if the inspection is conducted. Notifications can happen in real time periodically or when the non portable devices and or portable devices connect with the servers .

The servers utilizing the database can use the received work completed information to create update the quality assurance schedule and instructions as discussed in connection with . For instance if the work has been completed then the servers utilizing the database automatically schedule an inspection of the completed work if needed which will be reflected in the quality assurance schedule . Also if the information indicates that the work has passed the inspection i.e. the work is completed satisfactorily then the servers utilizing the database can also automatically update the quality assurance schedule accordingly e.g. by removing the inspection since it has been completed satisfactorily. In addition the servers utilizing the database or some other entity can automatically or upon request generate an invoice for the completed work and or the inspected work whereby the dynamic system is used to manage billing aspects of the work inspection operation.

As shown in when the failed quality assurance inspection information is logged in the database e.g. by the operation of a corrective action is automatically generated in the form of re work order instructions . The servers utilizing the database or the devices can automatically generate corrective action based on the failed quality assurance inspection information failed quality assurance instructions which determines the basis for the corrective action required by the re work work order . The re work work order can be combined with or scheduled in the work order schedules to generate the re work order instructions which include instructions on what needs to be done to pass the inspection and complete the work satisfactorily. For instance the servers including the database can automatically assign next available workers or the workers who did the work originally at their next available time date to carry out the re work work order . Or the servers including the database can automatically assign next higher level workers to carry out the re work work orders to ensure that the re done work will pass the inspection. Also the work order schedule can include the time and date by which the re work must be completed and or must pass the inspection if required. Other variations are possible.

The re work order instructions which can include the work order schedule re work work orders etc. can be automatically issued by the servers and communicated over the Internet or other wired or wireless connections to the portable devices and or to the non portable devices via e.g. email fax and or graphic representation and or sound utilizing computers and or devices etc. Or such re work order instructions can be generated by a portable device or a non portable device and sent to the servers e.g. for storage in the database or to other portable or non portable devices . In this way a crew leader or other user in a remote location can obtain complete and detailed re work order instructions without having to come into the central office and carry out the necessary tasks which can save time and other resources significantly.

Accordingly in the dynamic system the re work work orders are issued and scheduled automatically to provide specific corrective actions required as identified by the failed quality assurance instructions . To provide subjective details needed to correct deficiencies the failed quality assurance instructions and or the re work work orders can be automatically included in the detailed re work order instructions and or the schedule .

As shown in the servers including the database or device determine which materials supplies equipment etc. are needed to complete each work order and include this information in the work order schedule and or the work order . Once the material needs are identified the servers utilizing the database automatically compare the identified material needs to available inventory which can include materials on order to determine if adequate materials are available to complete the scheduled work orders . If adequate materials are available to complete the scheduled work orders then the servers including the database can automatically sequester the materials that are needed and the work orders can be carried out. The servers utilizing the database can automatically deduct the material needs identified in each work order or schedule from the available inventory to create updated available inventory when the work orders are completed. For instance if a work is completed then a user at the job site can scan out using the device at which time the servers utilizing the database can assume that the work is completed and the needed materials were all used and thus automatically deduct the material needs identified in the work order from the available inventory . On the other hand if adequate materials are not available to complete the scheduled work orders the servers automatically notifies management or other users as shown in . Further in addition to the notification the servers utilizing the database can be configured to automatically send out purchase orders to appropriate vendors so as to purchase the needed materials to complete the work orders and or to re stock the inventory to desired levels.

From the foregoing description it should be understood that an improved method and system for managing building facilities services and other work requiring services have been shown and described which have many desirable attributes and advantages. The system and method fully and effectively integrate the entire facility and also groups of facilities into a single system with minimal human intervention. The system and method also allow an automatic and total management of work to be completed as well as human and other resource allocations considering various aspects of the needs and demands associated with the work and resources. The system and method further allow an electronic integration of all available necessary information associated with the work and allow communication of such integrated information to all users of the system at any time and place. Because of the superiority and advantages of the system the present invention allows for comprehensive customization of services for each building facility or the like while maintaining efficiency quality and organization in the management system.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

