---

title: Community tagging of a multimedia stream and linking to related content
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention allow users to tag a multimedia program or stream with data or pointers to external information related to content of the multimedia program. Users in a social network may tag various aspects of the content, such as a particular actor, a type of car, jewelry, a location, a phrase, etc. This tagging information may then be linked to various websites that provide further information about the tagged content and may be keyed to video offset times.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832277&OS=08832277&RS=08832277
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08832277
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061130
---
The present invention relates to online services and communications tools and more particularly to social networks.

In its short history Internet usage has been mainly driven by portals and search engines such as Yahoo and Google. Recently the rapid growth of social networking sites such as MySpace and Facebook has revealed a new trend of Internet usage. Social networking generally relates to services and tools that help users maintain and expand their circles of friends usually by exploiting existing relationships. Social networking sites have shown potential to become the places on the Internet where many people spend most of their time thus making these sites the main entry point for online activity. Often times these social networking sites can become the focal point of sharing information such as links multimedia music and the like.

In general social networking sites and other online services of the Internet offer a mix of features and tools such as message boards games journals or web logs blogs . Many of these sites try to build communities around multi media or popular culture such as television film music etc. These sites and their features are designed to keep users clicking on advertising supported pages of the site. Thus the known social networking sites employ a closed platform of services that attempt to keep their user base captive to the site.

The Internet is now crowded with a large number of social networking sites and sharing tools. For example the recent supremacy of iTunes has triggered a plethora of music service offerings. As another example the recent success of YouTube and Google Video has sparked an explosion of video sharing sites. Therefore most users typically utilize multiple social networking sites and maintain separate accounts on these services.

Unfortunately it has become difficult for users to share and highlight content across their multiple social networking services. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide methods and systems that allow users to highlight content that is of high or low value with their social network. In addition it would be desirable to allow users to provide information that links to external related content.

Embodiments of the present invention allow users to tag a multimedia program or stream with data or pointers to external information related to content of the multimedia program. Users in a social network may tag various aspects of the content such as a particular actor a type of car jewelry a location a phrase etc. Alternatively playback data may be collected from users viewing the multimedia program. The playback data may include tagging by the user that indicates various aspects of the content. This tagging information may then be linked to various websites that provide further information about the tagged content and may be keyed to video offset times.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the invention which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Client provides a user interface for system . Client may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example client may be implemented on a personal computer workstation or terminal. In addition client may run under an operating system such as the LINUX operating system the Microsoft Windows operating system and the like. Client may also operate through an Internet browser application such as Firefox by Mozilla Internet Explorer by Microsoft Corporation or Netscape Navigator by Netscape Communications Corporation.

One skilled in the art will also recognize that client may be implemented with various peripheral devices such as a display one or more speakers and other suitable devices. Client may also be implemented with various peripherals for accepting input from a user such as a keyboard a mouse and the like. Although shows a number of clients system may include any number of clients.

Services are the applications and services that users of system already use. Services may be implemented on one or more servers that are well known to those skilled in the art. Rather than recreating functionality open overlay service merely interfaces services and allows users to seamlessly continue using the services such as social networking services instant messaging etc. that they currently use. Examples of services include iTunes Yahoo Music Engine MySpace Friendster AOL Instant Messenger Yahoo Messenger etc. Any sort of online service may be incorporated into the context provided by open overlay service .

Open overlay service serves as a social network service and stores manages and provides access control to the various services and social networks of clients . In general open overlay service is essentially a web site and application service that stores and forwards information shared by users as well as user profiles and social network information. Open overlay service may be hosted as a public instance similar in fashion to a service such as Wikipedia. In addition open overlay service may provide various application programming interfaces that have an open specification so that anyone can create an interface.

For example open overlay service may process requests to retrieve an object document image file web page and the like. Open overlay service may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example open overlay service may be implemented as a web site running on one or more servers that support various application programs and stored procedures.

The components of system may be coupled together via network . Network may comprise one or more networks such as a local area network the Internet or other type of wide area network. In addition network may support a wide variety of known protocols such as the transport control protocol and Internet protocol TCP IP and hypertext transport protocol HTTP .

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in open overlay service . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include the Linux operating system the UNIX operating system. In addition OS may operate in conjunction with other software such as an application server such as JBoss to implement various features of open overlay service .

Application server provides the logic for analyzing and managing the operations of open overlay service . As previously noted application server may be written in a variety of programming languages such as C C Java etc.

For example one responsibility of application server may be managing the various identities of the users of open overlay service . As noted previously a single person may have multiple identities that they use for various online services and social networks. For example a person named John Smith may use jsmith domain.com as an identity one service but use smithj domain2.com as his identity on another service.

In one embodiment in order to track the various users of open overlay service application server may assign each user a unique identifier such as a numeric identifier. Application server may then utilize this unique identifier with the identity resources i.e. email address account names screen names etc. used by services to identify a person. In some embodiments application server generates a graph of each social network within open overlay service in terms of person s names and the identity resources from the point of view of a particular user based on what is trusted by that user.

For example given information about a person s name their unique identifier assigned by application server and associations to identity resources trusted by other users application server can generate a list of person names and identity resources i.e. email address account names etc. that should be visible to a particular user. Hence the particular user will only be allowed to see identity resources they happen to or only know about that user and identity resources that have been verified by application server . For example a user A may have a unique identifier of and email address and email address as identity resources A user B may only know about email address for user A. Meanwhile a user C may similarly only know about email address for user A. Thus for user B application server will only allow user B to view and use email address as an identity resource for user A. Likewise application server will only allow user C to view and use email address as an identity resource for user A. However if user A subsequently explicitly indicates to application server that both users B and C can be trusted then users and C will then be also allowed to view both email addresses and as well. The primary uses of this information by open overlay service may be for sharing a link with person by addressing that person either by an email address or by a short nickname or for viewing a list of persons in open overlay service that they think they know.

Application server may also determine what information of a user should be public or private. In some embodiments application server may default to making information public but provide an option such as a checkbox that allows the user to designate information as private. Application server may also employ per page settings such as all private or all public. Other privacy policies may be implemented by application server .

Application server may further provide various search features. For example application server may allow users to search for other users based on various criteria such as age gender school etc. Application server may also allow searches for various resources such as email addresses topics links etc.

Messaging server manages communications between open overlay service and clients via network . For example messaging server may be configured to periodically poll clients on a regular basis and have them request information from services . Messaging server may be implemented based on well known hardware and software and utilize well known protocols such as TCP IP hypertext transport protocol etc.

Messaging server may be configured to handle a wide variety of data and may handle data that is in any format. For example information from clients may be in the form of an extensible markup language XML file or a network location such as a uniform resource locator URL on the Internet. Alternatively messaging server may be configured to obtain information from services directly in a peer to peer fashion.

Messaging agent serves as an interface between open overlay service and online services and may operate to monitor the activity of clients at these services. In particular messaging agent may be a relatively small and focused computer application or bot that runs continuously in the background simultaneously for each of clients as other programs are being run and responds automatically to activity on services that may be of interest to clients such as new messages postings and the like.

Messaging agent may be created by open overlay service i.e. by application server for the benefit of the users at clients . Alternatively for example messaging server may send information to clients upon request perform automated searches or monitor messages or events at services .

In one embodiment messaging server and or messaging agent may work in conjunction to perform client side data scraping on services . Client side data scraping may be desirable in some instances where services refuse or block a direct interface with open overlay service . For example MySpace and AOL s instant messaging service may be implemented as one of services but is known to block proxy requests for a client.

Client side data scraping may be initiated by messaging server or using information provided by messaging server. Messaging server may poll client overlay client to trigger a request to one of services . Accordingly overlay client may cause one of service applications to interface with service and request data from that service such as web page refresh. Since the request originated from client service will provide a response. Overlay client may detect this response and forward it to messaging server . Messaging server may then pass this response. Of course the polling may be configured at overlay client based on information provided to messaging server .

Messaging server evaluates the response and determines if a notification event is needed. If notification is needed messaging server send a message to overlay client . The notification may then be displayed to the user using for example browser or service application .

One application of client side data scraping may be used to detect when messages or postings have been entered on one of services . For example on MySpace users often repeatedly refresh their pages in anticipation of receiving a post or message from a friend. With client side data scraping open overlay service may automatically perform this function and more conveniently indicate when the user has received activity on their MySpace page. This notification may appear in the form of a pop up bubble or may be displayed as a link on the user s page in open overlay service . Of course other applications of client side data scraping are consistent with the principles of the present invention.

Web server provides a communications interface between open overlay service clients and services . For example web server may be configured to provide information that indicates the status of client . Such communications may be based on well known protocols and programming languages such as HTTP TCP IP and Java. Interfaces provided by web server may be implemented using well known Internet technologies such as web pages which are well known to those skilled in the art.

User database maintains information identifying users and clients . User database may be implemented using well known database technology such as relational databases or object oriented databases.

For example user database may include information indicating one or more operating systems and applications installed on clients as well as services subscribed to by users. User database may also comprise information related to authenticating a user determining the respective rights of a user relative to other users. For example a user may select various groups or channels of content in which they are interested in receiving information. User database may further include information that indicates the permissions and delivery of the information to clients . Other information that may be included in user database may comprise information such as system and individual permissions of clients on services activation keys registration information and payment information such as credit card information .

Furthermore user database may include other information related to the manner in which open overlay service communicates with clients . For example this information may relate to periodicity of notifications email addresses format of the information and the like. User database may include data structures to log the activities and transactions of its users. Activities such as recent links history of operations etc. that may be logged in user database are well known to those skilled in the art.

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in open overlay service . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include Mac OS by Apple Computer the Windows family of operating systems by Microsoft Corporation and the Linux operating system.

Overlay client maintains an inventory of the software and service applications installed on client and archives one or more states of activity on client . In some embodiments overlay client may be configured to periodically connect to open overlay service and perform various operations requested by open overlay service. .

Browser is an application that runs on client and provides an interface to access information on network such as information on services . Browser may be implemented as well known programs such as Mozilla Firefox Microsoft Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator and the like.

Service applications run on client to support the services provided by services . For example service applications may be applications such as a browser an instant messaging client a music player such as iTunes and the like that are provided from services . Other examples for applications are well known to those skilled in the art.

User data cache provides a cache that indicates the activity of a user at client . For example user data cache may include information that indicates documents such as HTML pages images URL links web site access times and the like.

In order to illustrate some of the features of open overlay service that provide a live social context several examples of features will now be described In one feature a multimedia program or stream can be tagged with data or pointers to external information related to content of the multimedia program. Users of open overlay service may then share and publish this information. Users may tag various aspects of the content such as a particular actor a type of car jewelry a location a phrase etc. For example open overlay service may provide a forum or website that allows users to enter tags that correspond to various portions of content in a multimedia program. Tagging information may then be linked to various websites that provide further information about the tagged content and may be keyed to video offset times. Open overlay service may then provide this information to users in various social networks.

Alternatively playback data may be collected from users viewing the multimedia program. The playback data may be used to identify various segments of the multimedia content which may be of interest to users for tagging.

Open overlay service processes the data to identify offsets for the start and stop of non interesting segments e.g. boring commercials or interesting segments e.g. highlights of a baseball game . Open overlay service then publishes information about the interestingness of segments start time end time interestingness either publicly or to the group that contributed the data. Open overlay service may publish this information on a small scale most popular among my friends or a larger scale most popular among cable viewers this week .

For purposes of illustration shows a scenario where clients are labeled Alice Bob and Charlie are members of the same social network and use open overlay service . As shown these users may each have their own DVRs receiving a content signal from a provider not shown . Providers such as DirecTV Tivo Comcast and the like are well known to those skilled in the art. In addition one of services may receive and provide program schedule information of these providers.

Initially Alice Bob and Charlie may watch content independently on their respective DVRs . During this viewing their playback data may be monitored and collected. For example overlay clients may be configured to periodically poll DVRs to collect this playback data. Alternatively DVRs may have their own application such as one of service applications . For example one of service applications may be configured to retrieve program schedule information from service over network . Accordingly overlay client may operate in conjunction with service application to obtain playback data of the users.

Of note the playback data may be collected actively or passively. For example the users may be interactively prompted to tag a segment of a show as either high value or low value. Users may also actively tag various segments of a show. One skilled in the art will recognize that any type of segment such as commercials highlights scenes etc. may be tagged by the users.

Alternatively playback data may be passively collected from the user. That is the users playback behavior is merely observed without requesting or prompting. For example the playback data may simply indicate where the user paused rewound skipped forward etc.

Clients then send this playback data to open overlay service . Open overlay service may for example periodically poll for this playback data from clients . Alternatively clients may be configured to provide their playback data at defined intervals or in real time as it s collected.

In addition open overlay service may collect program information from the various providers via service . This information allows open overlay service to correlate and aggregate the various playback data for the same content. For example the same show or movie may be played at different times by different providers. Thus open overlay service may operate across different providers and allow users to share segment information even if they use different providers.

Open overlay service may aggregate the playback data either at a central location in database or by broadcasting results to multiple locations such as service application . The aggregation could be done at a small scale most popular among my friends or a larger scale most popular among all viewers this week within open overlay service 

Application server may then process the playback data collected from clients and program information to determine segments of content that are of high or low interest to the users. For example application server may aggregate the playback data and determine the various commercial breaks in a show. In order to account for variances in the playback data and reaction times of the users application server may use one or more algorithms to determine the start and end times of segments. For example application server may calculate an average start and end time or a median start and end time based on the playback data collected from the users. Application server may also various probabilistic or statistical methods to determine the start and end times of segments. Such algorithms are known to those skilled in the art.

Furthermore application server may determine separate segment boundaries for different social networks. For example application server may determine aggregate and determine segments for different families or groups of friends. This allows open overlay service to provide distinct sharing among its social networks. Alternatively application server may aggregate playback data from all of its users. Such information may be useful for certain types of segments such as commercials. Of course application server may use a combination of these techniques.

Application server then queries database to retrieve a list of users and groups that may be interested in the segment information for a particular show. For example clients may selectively choose segments identified by one or more social networks or groups or elect segments that have been collected from all of the users of open overlay service . This feature allows various social networks to selectively choose which segment information they receive. Sports highlights in a show may be of interest to one group of users or social network. In contrast highlights of a particular actor or musical group in the same show may be of interest to another group of users or social network.

For example in the scenario shown in Alice Bob and Charlie are part of the same social network and may be interested in sharing segment information with each other. For each of these users application server then queries database to determine retrieve which provider used by Alice Bob and Charlie. For example Alice and Bob may use DirecTV but Charlie may use Tivo.

Application server may then distribute the segment information to Alice Bob and Charlie. The segment information may be sent to overlay client or as directly to service application for DVRs . The segment information may be sent periodically on demand etc. based on the preferences of the clients . One skilled in the art will recognize that there is wide variety of ways that the segment information can be distributed.

Application server may also filter the segment information distributed to clients based on that client s profile or other criteria. For example application server may filter the segment information sent to Alice based on various criteria such as Alice s age Alice s location Alice s other activities in open overlay service as indicated in cache etc. For example segment information that contains adult material may be filtered from being sent to Alice.

Furthermore application server may send various accompanying information with the segments. For example this accompanying information may be information that indicates comments by users about the segment descriptive phrases timing information duration of the segment and the like about the segment.

Once provided the segment information users at clients may subsequently add elaborating information and links to external related content about these segments. For example open overlay service may provide the segment information in a table format or wiki format on a web page. Users may then freely enhance this information and provided related links to related content.

The information may be a wide variety and indicate any level of detail desired. For example the information added may be about particular actor a type of car jewelry a location a phrase history of a location and the like. The information may also include links to other websites and service applications that are related to content in the segment. For example a commercial segment may later have the subject s website added. Other examples include links to blogs maps video clips audio clips etc.

As the segment information is elaborated application server may then notify various users about this event. The notification may be limited to just the users of the social network from which the information originated i.e. to Alice Bob and Charlie or the notification could be broadcast to one or more groups or the all the users of open overlay service . These notifications may be sent periodically on demand etc. based on the preferences of the clients . One skilled in the art will recognize that there is wide variety of ways that information related to segments can be distributed.

Application server may also filter which of clients receive the related information based on that client s profile or other criteria. For example application server may filter the related information sent to Alice based on various criteria such as Alice s age Alice s location Alice s other activities in open overlay service as indicated in cache etc. For example related information that contains adult material may be filtered from being sent to Alice.

Furthermore application server may send various accompanying information about the related information and links. For example this accompanying information may be information that indicates who submitted the related information when the information was added etc.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

