---

title: Tools for health and wellness
abstract: A tool for providing health and/or wellness services is described herein. Not necessarily clean or unclean data about a plurality of self-selected or non-selected or unselected subjects is received. The data can be aggregated and mined at least in part by employing a statistical algorithm, a data-mining algorithm and/or a machine-learning algorithm. The data can be further employed to provide health and/or wellness services to participants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07647285&OS=07647285&RS=07647285
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07647285
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061102
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 266 974 entitled LARGE SCALE INFORMATION COLLECTION AND MINING filed Nov. 4 2005. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 556 069 entitled MONETIZING LARGE SCALE INFORMATION COLLECTION AND MINING filed Nov. 2 2006. The entireties of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Many industries benefit from drawing statistically valid conclusions from data. For instance health care providers increasingly base diagnostic and treatment decisions as well as wellness recommendations on the current best evidence i.e. increasingly they practice evidence based medicine . Preferably clinicians rely on the gold standard of evidence when making medical decisions randomized controlled double blind clinical trials. If clean data from a randomized controlled double blind clinical trial relating to a patient s condition is not available clinicians often rely on other sources of clean data that best adhere to the well established principles of the scientific method. Examples of clean data include randomized controlled double blind clinical trials controlled but not randomized clinical trials uncontrolled clinical trials unblinded clinical trials and other types of studies involving researcher selected populations. However clean data is expensive and time consuming to obtain and depending on the patient s condition may not be available at all.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Although it is desirable to draw conclusions from clean data collecting clean data is complex time consuming and costly to perform. Since a larger sample size helps to overcome the effects that a lack of a selected population and or a lack of controls have on statistical significance analyzing large amounts of unclean or not necessarily clean data e.g. data from a non selected unselected or self selected population can yield valuable information. Unclean data can be of any type including but not limited to health related information. The data can be provided explicitly or automatically culled from existing information e.g. frequency of prescription refills as an indication of whether a patient is taking their medication as prescribed . Although data so obtained may be noisy machine learning data mining algorithms can be used to see through this noise to discover useful patterns. The mining process can be directed toward for example elucidating new drug side effects and or interactions among drugs and or diseases.

The unclean database also can be used for instance to provide those individuals contributing to the database with information and or services. By way of example the database can facilitate providing services such as self diagnosis e.g. health and wellness etc. self treatment advice and or guidance regarding seeking and identifying professional assistance e.g. referrals facilitating medical appointments etc. . The guidance can be based on a variety of factors such as the complexity of the diagnosis problem condition the nature of the diagnosis problem condition the location of the individual and or the budget of the individual. In order to protect an individual s privacy information about an individual can be stored anonymously for instance by associating a subscriber number with a user password or by employing any other mechanism to protect confidential information. Additionally or alternatively a user can be asked to consent to the dissemination of the user s information to third parties.

Moreover the database can facilitate personalizing healthcare. For instance as the cost of gene sequencing drops it is expected that people routinely will have their genes sequenced. This patient specific genetic data can be correlated with an individual s health history and or health related behaviors to for example identify personalized diagnostic procedures and personalized therapies for medical conditions.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the subject matter can be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

The subject matter described herein facilitates collecting and mining very large amounts of unclean or not necessarily clean data and optionally storing the information in a database. Because the collected data can be associated with a particular user a useful by product of the data collection process is the facilitation of providing health and or wellness advice services to a user. By way of example a user can open an interactive session with a tool for accessing the database. The tool can provide an interface with the database via text audio and or video. For instance a dialog can be started with the user that leads the user through a series of questions to facilitate converging on an accurate diagnosis treatment option or referral. The interface can optionally receive real time data manually input and or by sensors such as temperature location weight facial expression etc. Upon reaching a conclusion having a predetermined level of confidence the tool can provide the user with a diagnosis including background information on the diagnosis and or treatment options and health care referrals. Emergency medical teams can use portable versions of the tool to enter patient information at the site of the emergency in order to have a preliminary diagnosis sent to the emergency room ER prior to a patient s arrival at the ER or to inform emergency personnel of available interventions.

The data input can be of any type including but not limited to health related information. In one embodiment health related information can be obtained from a wide variety of sources including but not limited to directly from patients via a computerized service such as a web site using a web form for entering information. The data can be correlated with information from a variety of different sources and or systems to facilitate drawing conclusions relating to the patient s health. Any source having pertinent information can subscribe to the web service to provide information. Such sources of information include insurers providers e.g. doctors nurses hospitals nursing homes etc. and devices e.g. pacemakers smart scale etc. .

To encourage user participation incentives can be provided and or the data can be anonymized to address patient privacy concerns. For example a third party payer can require a subscriber to file a report as a condition of renewing a prescription for medication or to qualify for a lower co payment rate. In another embodiment coupons for discounts on goods and or services can be offered. With regard to anonymity for example no identifying information may be required such as name and address and instead an anonymous ID e.g. passport ID can be assigned to a user. An anonymous ID allows for separate health reports from the same individual to be linked together without associating identifying information with the data.

Another way to encourage participation is through minimizing the effort needed for a user to interact with the system. For instance a free text entry system with intelligent spelling correction can be provided for data entry. Text mining algorithms can be employed to extract structured data from the entered free text. In another embodiment a bar code reader can be used to scan the label of a medication bottle.

By way of another example at the time of each report the user can be asked health related questions. The questions can be selected at random from a large library of questions or more particularly tailored to the user s condition context. Data can be entered at will e.g. symptoms such as chest pains level of arthritis pain etc. and or the user can request that reminders be sent e.g. periodic email etc. . The individual data can be aggregated e.g. collected en masse or selected based on the type of data to be analyzed or otherwise refined in whole or in part across a large group and patterns correlations can be discovered from the data using for example statistical methods. Any suitable statistical method can be used such as Fisher s Exact Test if both variables are binary Mann Whitney if one variable is binary and the other is a number and Spearman correlation if both variables are numbers .

By way of yet another example users can be presented with questions based on the results of previously analyzed data. For instance statistical methods can be used to analyze data input by users who happen to report or who are prompted to report side effects while taking medications. In this example if a correlation between Drug A and a side effect and a correlation between Drug B and the same side effect are detected and rise above a threshold subsequent users can be presented with questions about Drug A Drug B and the side effect. In particular if any person input information about Drug A Drug B or the side effect spontaneously he or she could be asked about the other two. Alternatively or additionally other users could be chosen at random to be asked about all three. Data input by users who answered questions pertaining to all three e.g. a stratified sample can be subjected to standard multivariate tests e.g. a logistic regression of Drug A and Drug B on the side effect to determine for instance if the two drugs interact to produce the side effect. Based on the results of the analysis appropriate response s can be implemented e.g. if a user reports he she is taking Drug A the user can be asked about Drug B and be advised about the likely side effect if taking both .

The interface can be programmed to maximize the value of information while minimizing the effort required to provide the information. For example questions can be selected automatically in a manner so as to converge on meaningful information and to otherwise maximize the value of the extracted information in conjunction with the already mined data. One way to accomplish this is to increase the number of patients being asked the same questions when the answers to randomized questions start showing a distinct but weak pattern in order to confirm the pattern. The patterns in free text may suggest an effect that needs further exploration with new questions for instance questions that were previously found to be informative when asked in conjunction with the observed pattern.

Another way to increase usage is to increase awareness of the service. By way of example health related keywords can be purchased on a search site e.g. MSN SEARCH . When a user types a query containing one of the purchased keywords the user is presented with a link to a web site enabling data collection. Other advertising venues can be employed e.g. print radio TV etc and these ads can contain catchy phrases to describe the process of filing a report e.g. encourage people to send in their drug bugs .

The collected data can be utilized to generate revenue. For instance the conclusions discovered knowledge and or the raw data can be forwarded to health related agencies and or private companies e.g. pharmaceutical biotechnology medical device etc. or these entities can be otherwise given access to the data e.g. an interface to access the database for a fee. By way of example the fee can be applied on a per use basis or a subscription service can be provided e.g. payment for unlimited or limited access to the database for a period of time .

The data collection component can collect any type of data including but not limited to biological pathophysiological physiological medical healthcare and or otherwise health related. The data can be for example a drug related event a symptom and or genetic information. The data collection component can collect data in any form including but not limited to textual graphical photographic sound speech video multimedia and the like. By way of example the data collection component can allow for free text analysis. In this embodiment rather than prompting a user with forms a user enters the data in free text form and the system automatically extracts and structures data from the free text. The free text analysis can include intelligent spelling correction or voice recognition. The user can be a consumer or a provider of healthcare services or any other source of health related information. The data component also can allow for input to be received in multiple forms in combination such as both free text and survey forms. The data even can be introduced in the form of an activity such as a memory game that a user plays to assess memory function.

The data collection component can automatically obtain data such as by querying a provider database not shown . The data can be provided to the data collection component from any input means such as a PDA telephone bar code reader computer keyboard mouse microphone touchscreen database cell phone etc. To promote participation through convenience of use sites for data entry such as kiosks with computer terminals can be provided at public and other locations.

In one embodiment the data collection component can collect the data anonymously such that no identifying information is linked to the data . By way of example a user can be anonymously issued an ID and use this ID to log on to the system to enter data . The data from a particular individual can be linked together via this ID without associating the user s identity with the data. Alternatively the data can be received by the data collection component in conjunction with identifying information and the data collection component can filter the identifying information privacy filter prior to storage in the database . In addition the data collection component can employ various security measures to obtain data such as a Human Interactive Proof HIP to verify that a human being rather than an automated process is providing the data .

The data in whole or in part is sent to the database to be stored for use by the aggregation component . The aggregation component aggregates individual data across a large group and facilitates automatically detecting one or more patterns from the data at least in part by utilizing machine learning techniques to mine the database . The term pattern as used herein includes but is not limited to trends associations correlations connections links relationships etc. By way of example the aggregation component can detect a correlation between the use of a certain medication and for instance a symptom across a large group of people. The aggregation component can be structured to accord different weights to different data. For instance data from a physician can be given a higher weight than data from a patient. By way of another example data more likely to be accurate can be assigned a greater weight. Moreover the aggregation component can classify the data according to demographics e.g. age gender race etc. in order to facilitate recognizing demographic specific patterns.

The patterns e.g. correlations can be ascertained via any suitable method for example by employing an algorithm such as the statistical methods explained above Fisher s Exact Test Mann Whitney Spearman correlation . Additionally or alternatively the system can employ an algorithm that uses low order sufficient statistics and statistical methods that can make inferences with missing data e.g. expectation maximization EM algorithm . Any machine learning algorithm can be employed such as neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines and the like. The aggregation component also can employ combinations of various artificial intelligence techniques to discern patterns.

Optionally a human intervention step can be combined with the machine learning algorithm to discern patterns from the data . By way of example a human editor can inspect and even test e.g. through formal or informal clinical trials some or all of the patterns ascertained by the automated portion of the system before the system accepts a pattern as true or likely to be true.

In one embodiment the data collection component and the aggregation component can function together to collect and aggregate the data such as by tailoring questions to converge on the most valued information. By way of example the data collection component can present a user with a question and the aggregation component can apply machine learning techniques to the answer to determine a suitable follow up question. A suitable follow up question can be based on the user s response and or patterns detected from the responses given by other users to the same or a similar question for instance to confirm a pattern. By way of example a user can be presented with the question How are you feeling today If the user s response is I do not feel well today the aggregation component can choose the follow up question Please tell me about your symptoms. If the user responds I have chest pain and the system has acquired data from other users taking a particular type of medication that shows a pattern of chest pain associated with that particular medication the system can respond by asking the user Please tell me what medications you are taking. By way of another example a physician can be queried about the number of patients he she has treated who are on a particular medication and who have experienced symptoms such as chest pain. Moreover questions can be tailored to the personal characteristics of the user such as education level language culture and dialect.

In another embodiment the system can facilitate the design of personalized diagnostic and therapeutic regimens as well as alert remind a user about behavior modifications that would benefit the user s health. By way of example the data collection component can obtain patient specific genetic information as well as a variety of other relevant information from a user and or provider and or device etc. The machine learning component can correlate the patient specific genetic information with the other relevant information to draw conclusions about a user s health needs. For instance if the patient specific genetic information indicates that the person has a genetic susceptibility to heart disease and other relevant information indicates that the person smokes cigarettes and or eats a high fat diet and or has a high cholesterol the user can be sent an alert notifying him her of various beneficial behavioral modifications that could reduce his her risk of a heart attack e.g. quitting smoking reducing dietary fat etc. as well as advantageous medical therapies e.g. cholesterol lowering drugs . By way of another example if the patient specific genetic information indicates the person is at high risk for a certain type of cancer the person can be sent a reminder alert to discuss with their physician various preventative therapies as well as useful diagnostic tests.

As explained in relation to a variety of different input means can be employed to provide the data . Data can be received in a variety of different forms such as explicit data and or implicit data . By way of example explicit data can be data directly entered by a patient or a provider e.g. physician nurse pharmacy hospital institution agency device data etc. .

In order to encourage participation the data collection component can automate the data collection process in whole or in part. For instance the data collection component can acquire implicit data . Implicit data as used herein means data that is a by product of the activities that people engage in and or information that is provided to the system . By way of example implicit data can be acquired from explicit data . For instance a user can be asked a broad question by the system such as How are you feeling The user can enter his her answer in free text form and the system can interpret this answer to extract implicit data . If the user s answer is I am not feeling well and my eyes are red and itchy and I am sneezing quite a bit the system can determine that the user has allergies. By way of another example the data collection component can automatically acquire a user s prescription medication history by querying a pharmacy database not shown . By analyzing the user s refill history the system can determine whether the user is taking the medication as prescribed. The system can employ various techniques and methodologies to gather the implicit data such as a machine learning algorithm .

The data collection component also can receive device data . The data collection component can interrogate devices to obtain the device data and or the devices can initiate data transfers. Any form of communication between the system and the devices can be employed such as direct connection wireless connection network connection etc. By way of example device data can be data received from a smart scale that can automatically connect with the system to send a patient s weight. Other devices that can send device data include pacemakers defibrillators thermometers consumer healthcare devices electronic calendars PDAs cell phones exercise equipment and the like. For instance a user can keep track of how often they have a particular symptom by entering this information into his her electronic calendar. This information can be uploaded to the data collection component by the electronic calendar for instance upon receiving a reminder by user indication and or automatically without receiving a prompt. Alternatively the system can interrogate the electronic calendar. By way of another example the devices can connect with the system by using a platform such as MICROSOFT .NET.

The components and can be the same process executing on a single or a plurality of computers or multiple processes executing on a single or a plurality of computers. Similarly the database can be a single datastore or multiple datastores. Moreover the components and and the database can be implemented by software or combinations of software and hardware.

The third party that receives the patterns from the system can be a patient a provider e.g. physicians hospitals pharmacies nursing homes etc. a governmental entity e.g. Food Drug Administration FDA lawmakers etc. a private entity e.g. pharmaceutical companies medical device companies distributors drug safety watchdog groups insurance companies AARP etc. and any other interested parties. By way of example by mining the database for associations between adverse events and medications the system can facilitate the early detection of drug side effects and or drug interactions. The system can forward this information to alert interested parties such as the company that manufactures the medication s associated with the adverse event and or the FDA. By way of another example a user can register with the system and sign up for alerts relating to a medication the user is taking. If a pattern associated with the user s medication is recognized by the system the forwarding component can send an alert to the user notifying the user of the relationship.

The system also can facilitate the detection of counterfeit drugs. By way of example the data collection component can collect information relating to a user s medication and physiological status and correlate this information to determine if the medication is producing the intended effect. In one embodiment the user can be queried about medications and the specific effects of those medications. Alternatively a device can provide an output corresponding to a measure of the patient s response to the therapy. For instance if a patient is taking blood pressure medication the patient can enter the medication s name as well as the patient s blood pressure measurements via the data collection component . The system can store this information over time and determine if the patient is adequately responding to the therapy for instance by employing machine learning techniques . If the system determines that the patient s response to the medication is inadequate the forwarding component can send the patient an alert.

The system can forward the patterns to the interested parties in return for a fee. The fee can be structured in any manner for instance a fee can be charged for each alert sent to the third party. Alternatively a subscription service can be provided such that a third party is charged a fee for unlimited or limited access to information inferred by the system for a period of time.

The components and can be the same process executing on a single or a plurality of computers or multiple processes executing on a single or a plurality of computers. Similarly the database can be a single datastore or multiple datastores. Moreover the components and and the database can be implemented by software or combinations of software and hardware.

The reminder component can send reminders to remind various entities to enter data. The reminders can be sent to any party entity that requests to be reminded such as users e.g. individuals etc. devices e.g. electronic calendars consumer healthcare devices pacemakers etc. providers e.g. physicians nurses hospitals insurance companies pharmacies etc. and companies e.g. pharmaceutical manufacturers medical device manufacturers distributors etc. . Alternatively the reminder component can send out reminders automatically without receiving a request. For instance the machine learning component can determine that information is missing from a profile and signal the reminder component to send a request to the information source. Optionally a fee can be charged for the reminder service. The reminder component also can send alerts of the type described in relation to .

The systems described above can be implemented on a network in whole or in part by data signals. These manufactured data signals can be of any type and can be conveyed on any type of network. For instance the systems can be implemented by electronic signals propagating on electronic networks such as the Internet. Wireless communications techniques and infrastructures also can be utilized to implement the systems.

At step information about a plurality of self selected subjects is received. The information can be obtained from a consumer or a provider of healthcare services or any other source of information such as a device or an electronic calendar. At step the information is aggregated. At step the aggregated data is mined. The aggregated information can be mined at least in part by employing a data mining algorithm to infer one or more health observations from the aggregated information. The term health observation as used herein includes but is not limited to trends associations correlations connections links relationships etc. At step the one or more health observations are monetized. Monetizing the health observations can be accomplished for instance by charging an interested party a fee for access to the health observations. The fee can be structured in any manner for instance a fee can be charged for each alert sent to a third party. Alternatively a subscription service can be provided such that a third party is charged a fee for unlimited or limited access to health observations over a period of time. The method can be repeated an unlimited number of times as needed to generate health observations.

Any type of information can be aggregated including but not limited to biological pathophysiological physiological medical healthcare and or otherwise health related. The information can be for example a drug related event a symptom and or genetic information. The data can be collected in any form including but not limited to textual graphical photographic sound speech video multimedia and the like. By way of example the data can be collected by employing a free text analysis which optionally can include intelligent spelling correction or voice recognition. The data can be explicitly implicitly and or automatically input. The information can be entered by any input means such as a PDA telephone bar code reader computer keyboard mouse microphone touchscreen database cell phone etc. Sources of information can be sent reminders either by request and or inferred reminders.

In one embodiment the information can be collected anonymously such that no identifying information is linked to the information. Alternatively the data can be received in conjunction with identifying information and stripped of the identifying information by a privacy filter. Security measures can be employed in the information collection process such as a Human Interactive Proof HIP to verify that a human being rather than an automated process is providing the data.

The health observations e.g. correlations can be ascertained via any suitable method for example by employing the statistical methods explained above Fisher s Exact Test Mann Whitney Spearman correlation . Additionally or alternatively the health observations can be ascertained via an algorithm that uses low order sufficient statistics and statistical methods that can make inferences with missing data e.g. expectation maximization EM algorithm . Other examples of data mining methods include but are not limited to neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines and the like as well as combinations of various artificial intelligence techniques capable of discerning patterns. Optionally a human intervention step can be added to the process in order to mine the data. By way of example a human editor can inspect and even test e.g. through formal or informal clinical trials some or all of the inferences provided by the data mining algorithm.

In mining the aggregated data information can be accorded different weights for instance information from a pharmacy can be given a higher weight than information from a patient. By way of another example information more likely to be accurate can be assigned a greater weigh. By way of yet another example the machine learning algorithm can classify the information according to demographics e.g. age gender race etc. in order to facilitate making demographic specific health observations.

At step at least one incentive to supply information is advertised. The incentive can be advertised for example on a search site upon entering a search string containing one or more keywords. Any other means of advertising can be used to advertise the incentive such as print TV radio online ad etc. At step information about a plurality of self selected subjects is received. At step the incentive is provided to the self selected subject. The incentive can be of any type and can be a requirement or a bonus. For instance an insurance company e.g. Medicare Medicaid private insurer etc. can require a subscriber to file a report as a condition of renewing a prescription for medication or to qualify for a lower co payment rate. By way of another example coupons for discounts on goods and services can be offered. At step the information is aggregated. At step the aggregated data is mined. The aggregated information can be mined at least in part by employing a data mining algorithm to infer one or more health observations from the aggregated information. The method can be repeated an unlimited number of times as needed to generate health observations. Moreover the method is not limited to the order shown in the flowchart. For instance step can be performed prior to step .

As described in relation to above the information can be entered anonymously or stripped of identifying information. The information can be obtained from a consumer or a provider of healthcare services or any other source of information such as a device or an electronic calendar can be in any form and can be provided by any input means. The data mining algorithm also can be of any type.

The structures and algorithms described in relations to above can be used to implement the means and of the system . As described in relation to the data can be entered anonymously or stripped of identifying information. The information can be obtained from a consumer or a provider of healthcare services or any other source of information such as a device or an electronic calendar can be in any form and can be provided by any input means. The data mining algorithm also can be of any type.

A database of data gathered as described in relation to can be further used to facilitate providing health and or wellness advice services to a user as will be described in relation to . is a flowchart of one example of a method of providing health and or wellness services. At step not necessarily clean data about a plurality of self selected subjects is received and at at least some of the data is aggregated. Examples of the type of data include but are not limited to those described in relation to . The aggregated data is mined at step at least in part by employing for instance one or more of a statistical algorithm a data mining algorithm and a machine learning algorithm. At step a health and or wellness related inquiry from one of the plurality of self selected subjects is received. An inference about the health and or wellness of the one of the plurality of self selected subjects is drawn at step . The inference can be based on for instance at least some of the data about the one of the plurality of self selected subjects and the health and or wellness inquiry. Examples of an inference that can be drawn include a diagnosis a treatment option e.g. over the counter medication recommendation alternative medicine regiments recommendation to seek emergency treatment etc. or other health wellness advice such as information on diet exercise or other activities and or appropriate nutritional supplements. The inference can be drawn using any suitable technique such as neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines and the like as well as combinations thereof Moreover a human intervention step can be combined with these techniques to draw the inference.

As shown in the inference can be further based at least in part on clean data . Examples of clean data include a randomized clinical trial a controlled clinical trial a double blind clinical trial a double blind randomized controlled clinical trial or a meta analysis of two or more clinical trials. As shown in the inference can be provided to the inquirer . As shown in a benefit can be received for drawing the inference about health and or wellness of the inquirer . Examples of a benefit include a monetary benefit such as advertising revenue received in return for displaying advertisements to the inquirer a fee paid by the inquirer to receive health wellness advice and or a referral fee paid by a heath care entity for referring the inquirer for medical services. As shown in at least some of the plurality of self selected subjects can be provided with one or more incentives to self select to supply the data. Incentives include but are not limited to those described in relation to . As shown in a referral to a health care provider can be provided to the inquirer based on the inference . Referrals include but are not limited to providing the inquirer with a name and or contact information or facilitating making an appointment with a health care provider for the inquirer e.g. automated appointment .

The information received from the user can be a drug related event a symptom a device output an activity and or patient specific genetic information or any other type of information that would facilitate providing health and or wellness services. The decision component can employ various techniques to arrive at a conclusion for instance neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines and the like as well as combinations thereof. Moreover a human intervention step can be combined with the techniques to arrive at a conclusion.

The query component can implicitly collect data from the user for instance as is described in relation to e.g. based on the user s context etc. . The query component can automatically collect at least some of the information received from the user for instance by automatically querying a device e.g. smart scale cardiac pacemaker glucose meter pedometer etc. . The query component can collect at least some of the information received from the user by prompting the user with at least one question and or determining one or more follow up questions as described in relation to .

The unclean health related data can be provided by entities interfacing with the system via an Application Programming Interface e.g. MICROSOFT .NET . By way of example an Application Programming Interfaces API for the transfer of health context information using web services is provided. The API provides a framework for software developers to develop applications that allow entities to seamlessly transfer health context information and that facilitates a distributed framework of commerce focused around health context information. For instance a first party can generate diagnostic tools another party can provide treatment tools another provide billing services another advertisements informatics tools insurance marketing etc. all using common data to provide customized products and services that can be seamlessly aggregated to provide a range of services to users.

As used in this application the term component is intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and or the server can be a component. In addition a component can include one or more subcomponents. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

As used in this application the term means is intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a means can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a means. One or more means can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a means can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. A thread is the entity within a process that the operating system kernel schedules for execution. As is well known in the art each thread has an associated context which is the volatile data associated with the execution of the thread. A thread s context includes the contents of system registers and the virtual address belonging to the thread s process. Thus the actual data comprising a thread s context varies as it executes.

The subject matter described herein can operate in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more components. Generally program modules include routines programs objects data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules can be combined or distributed as desired. Although the description above relates generally to computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers the user interfaces methods and systems also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover the user interfaces methods and systems described herein can be practiced with all computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers personal computers stand alone computers hand held computing devices wearable computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like as well as distributed computing environments in which tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. The user interfaces methods and systems described herein can be embodied on a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions as well as signals e.g. electronic signals manufactured to transmit such information for instance on a network.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies that fall within the claimed subject matter and many further combinations and permutations of the subject matter are possible. While a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature can be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations of the subject matter as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

In regard to the various functions performed by the above described components computer executable instructions means systems and the like the terms are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any functional equivalents even though the functional equivalents are not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structures. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the specification or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

