---

title: Method of suppressing human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) replication in a subject by administering a liver X receptor (LXR) agonist
abstract: The present invention provides novel methods for treating and preventing coronary artery disease in HIV-1-infected individuals by interfering with Nef-mediated effect on ABCA1. The invention further provides novel methods for suppressing HIV infection by stimulating cholesterol efflux from cells by stimulating expression of ABCA1 in HIV-1-infected individuals. These methods take advantage of the finding that Nef, a regulatory protein of HIV-1, (1) diminishes expression of ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1), the main transporter of cholesterol from cells to extracellular acceptors; and (2) impairs cholesterol efflux from HIV-1-infected macrophages leading to cholesterol accumulation and formation of foam cells, which is a characteristic feature of atherosclerosis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08470526&OS=08470526&RS=08470526
owner: The George Washington University
number: 08470526
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060928
---
This application claims priority benefit under 119 e to U.S. 60 734 272 filed Nov. 8 2005 and to U.S. 60 721 116 filed Sep. 28 2005.

The invention was made in part with Government support under 1 contract R03 TW 06238 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health Fogarty International Center 2 contract 317810 awarded by the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia. The U.S. and Australian government have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to the field of treating coronary artery disease in HIV 1 infected individuals by interfering with Nef mediated effect on ABCA1. The invention further relates to suppressing HIV infection by stimulating cholesterol efflux from cells by stimulating expression of ABCA1 in HIV 1 infected individuals.

Cardiovascular disease is a leading cause of death and disability among most of the world s population. Atherosclerosis is the major cause of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease and it leads to insufficient blood supply to critical body organs resulting for example in heart attack stroke and kidney failure. People suffering from hypertension diabetes and HIV infection are at especially high risk of developing atherosclerosis.

While the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis is complex and not completely understood an underlying pathology led to the numerous theories for the cause of atherosclerosis for example an increase in serum cholesterol and the accumulation of cholesterol esters in the arterial wall. Foam cells are the key elements of atherosclerotic plaque formation. These cells form the cholesterol laden core of the plaque which later undergoes necrosis and calcification and can go on to rupture. The reason for accumulation of foam cells and cholesterol in the vessel wall may be dyslipidemia especially high levels of low density lipoproteins LDL and low levels of high density lipoprotein HDL and or impairment of intracellular cholesterol metabolism. Most likely both mechanisms contribute to increased risk of CAD coronary artery disease in HIV infected patients as HIV infection targets cholesterol metabolism in the cells central to the development of atherosclerosis i.e. macrophages while antiretroviral therapy causes dyslipidemia.

Cholesterol efflux is a pathway for removing excessive cholesterol from cells to extracellular acceptors. It plays a key role in maintaining cell cholesterol homeostasis. Impairment of cholesterol efflux leads to accumulation of intracellular cholesteroland development of atherosclerosis in animal modelsand in humans.

While previous studies demonstrated that cholesterol is essential for HIV 1 budding and infectivityand that HIV 1 protein Nef can directly bind cholesterol and transport it to the site of HIV assembly at the plasma membrane the significance of Nef in diminishing the expression of ATP binding cassette transporter A1 ABCA1 the main transporter of cholesterol from cells to extracellular acceptors and impairing cholesterol efflux which leads to cholesterol accumulation and formation of foam cells remains unknown. These previous studies make no mention of Nef as a cause of CAD in HIV 1 infected individuals. No effect of Nef on ABCA1 activity has been previously described. Further negative relation between the level of ABCA1 expression in a particular cell and infectivity of HIV 1 produced by this cell has not been previously recognized.

The present invention provides these heretofore needed tools as well as methods for treating CAD in HIV infected patients by preventing Nef from binding to ABCA1 in HIV 1 infected cells or and by stimulating expression of ABCA1 thereby simultaneously suppressing HIV replication.

HIV 1 infection both treated and untreated is associated with profound changes in lipid and lipoprotein metabolismand increased risk of coronary artery disease CAD . The major cause of CAD is atherosclerosis. The accumulation of cholesterol loaded foam cells macrophages and possibly smooth muscle cells in the walls of arteries is a characteristic feature of atherosclerosis. In this application the inventor of the present invention demonstrates that HIV 1 infection of macrophages leads to impairment of apolipoprotein A I apoA I dependent cholesterol efflux accumulation of cholesterol and formation of foam cells. This effect is mediated by the HIV 1 protein Nef. Indeed Nef deficient HIV 1 does not impair cholesterol efflux while transfection of murine macrophages with the Nef expressing plasmid results in reduction of efflux and cholesterol accumulation. In cells infected with Nef positive but not with Nef deficient HIV 1 as well as in cells transfected with Nef expressing plasmid the ATP binding cassette transporter A1 ABCA1 the main transporter of cholesterol to apoA I re localized from the cytoplasm to the plasma membrane showing that Nef mediated re distribution of ABCA1 is a mechanism responsible for impairment of cholesterol efflux. The role of HIV infected macrophages in atherosclerosis is supported by the presence of HIV positive foam cells in atherosclerotic plaques of HIV infected patients. These results demonstrate a mechanism by which HIV infected macrophages may contribute to atherosclerotic plaque formation.

In accordance with the present invention Nef a regulatory protein of HIV 1 diminishes activity and expression in HIV infected macrophages of ATP binding cassette transporter A1 ABCA1 the main transporter of cholesterol from cells to extracellular receptors and impairs cholesterol efflux thus leading to cholesterol accumulation and formation of foam cells.

Results presented in this report demonstrate that HIV 1 via the accessory protein Nef impairs cholesterol efflux from macrophages. This finding can be interpreted as a virus mediated switch of cholesterol trafficking from physiological efflux to virus controlled transport thus reducing the ability of a cell to export excessive cholesterol. Given that availability of cholesterol is critical for HIV assembly and infectivity 48 it is physiologically sensible for the virus to take over control of intracellular cholesterol metabolism.

A previous report demonstrated that Nef binds cholesterol and may deliver it to nascent virions 5 . Our study suggests that Nef mediated impairment of cholesterol efflux is another mechanism ensuring efficient delivery of cholesterol to HIV. Importantly this mechanism may be a necessary component of the above mentioned Nef mediated transport of cholesterol to virions. Indeed prevention of cholesterol efflux impairment by LXR agonist reduces virion associated cholesterol without interfering with Nef incorporation into the virions data not shown . Reduction of virion associated cholesterol correlates with lower virion infectivity FIGS. B C .

Our results demonstrate that Nef specifically targets ABCA1. Indeed Nef did not suppress cholesterol efflux in cells lacking ABCA1 HeLa cells or non activated RAW 264.7 cells but did so in ABCA1 expressing cells such as RAW 264.7 cells stimulated with an LXR agonist HeLa cells transfected with ABCA1 and differentiated human macrophages. Furthermore Nef did not suppress cholesterol efflux from ABCG1 transfected HeLa cells . These findings and the fact that Nef can interact with ABCA1 suggest that there is an interplay between Nef and ABCA1 in an HIV infected cell. The end result of this interplay would depend on relative levels of expression of Nef and ABCA1. Consistent with this suggestion overexpression of Nef from the CMV promoter inhibits ABCA1 mediated cholesterol efflux stimulated with the LXR agonist whereas levels of Nef expressed from the HIV LTR are insufficient to suppress LXR agonist stimulated cholesterol efflux in HIV infected macrophages . As a result HIV infectivity is reduced in LXR agonist stimulated cells . Therefore drugs stimulating cholesterol efflux may provide a dual benefit to HIV infected patients by limiting HIV replication and reducing the risk of atherosclerosis.

Our studies show that cholesterol efflux impairment is a conserved feature of HIV 1 Nef. Indeed we show this phenomenon using 3 R5 ADA Yu 2 and 92US660 and 2 4 SF2 and LAI HIV 1 isolates. We demonstrate that HIV 1 Nef impairs cholesterol efflux by at least two mechanisms it reduces ABCA1 abundance and causes intracellular re distribution of ABCA1. These two mechanisms may be related as they both depend on interaction between Nef and ABCA1 . For example a block to intracellular trafficking of ABCA1 may re target this protein to a degradation pathway. Alternatively ABCA1 re distribution and down regulation may be two independent effects of Nef both contributing to impairment of cholesterol efflux. Indeed several recent reports demonstrated a role of ABCA1 trafficking between late endosomes and the cell surface in cholesterol efflux from endosomal compartment 36 38 39 49 . The effects of Nef on ABCA1 distribution and apoA I binding and internalization are similar to the effects of cyclosporin A 43 or deletion of the PEST sequence in ABCA1 39 both of which inhibit efflux of cholesterol from late endosomes. Therefore both down regulation of ABCA1 and its intracellular re distribution can independently contribute to cholesterol efflux impairment observed in HIV infected cells. Interestingly Nef alone had less effect on ABCA1 abundance than HIV 1 infection compare however it had a more profound effect on the sequestration of ABCA1 at the plasma membrane compare . While this result may be due to differences between the cell types it is also possible that the primary effect of Nef is to sequester ABCA1 at the plasma membrane and some other HIV protein may cooperate with Nef to stimulate down regulation of sequestered ABCA1.

The exact molecular mechanisms responsible for the effect of Nef on intracellular trafficking and abundance of ABCA1 are yet to be fully investigated. Nef is known to regulate expression of several transmembrane proteins including CD4 45 MHC I 50 MHC II 50 CD28 51 and DC SIGN 52 . In most cases Nef mediates internalization and degradation of the receptor 53 but in some cases e.g. with DC SIGN or invariant chain of MHC II it up regulates the cell surface expression of the protein. These effects are consistent with our findings showing ABCA1 re localization and down regulation which may involve mechanisms similar to those described for Nef interactions with other proteins. It is worth noting that few of the above mentioned studies showed co immunoprecipitation of Nef with a target protein from HIV infected cells consistent with our inability to pull down Nef and ABCA1 from HIV infected macrophages. This may be due to a transitory nature of Nef ABCA1 interaction and low level expression of these proteins. Analysis of this interaction in cells overexpressing both proteins demonstrated a critical role of Nef myristoylation . This fatty acid may either be directly involved in binding of Nef to ABCA1 similar to the role that farnesylation of yeast pheromone a factor plays in its interaction with the yeast ABC transporter Step 6 54 or it may regulate Nef ABCA1 interaction indirectly by targeting Nef to the plasma membrane. Further analysis of the mechanisms by which Nef affects ABCA1 function would require understanding of the molecular events that regulate intracellular trafficking and degradation of ABCA1 in uninfected cells which is incompletely characterized and is a subject of the ongoing studies.

The results of this study have potential implications for understanding pathogenesis of CAD in HIV infected patients. These patients have a mildly elevated risk of CAD 55 which is sharply raised by treatment with certain protease inhibitors PIs 7 9 14 19 . Increased risk of CAD after treatment with PIs led to the assumption that PIs and or dyslipidemia are the primary source of development of atherosclerosis in HIV patients. Results presented in this report suggest that HIV induced impairment of cholesterol efflux from macrophages may be another important contributor to the pathogenesis of CAD. Indeed inactivation of ABCA1 in macrophages of hyperlipidemic mice significantly increased development of atherosclerosis 27 and genetic mutation inactivating ABCA1 in humans leads to Tangier disease one of characteristic features of which is an increased risk of CAD 28 . Impairment of reverse cholesterol transport mediated by down regulation of ABCA1 has been described for bacterial infections and has been linked to pathogenesis of atherosclerosis reviewed in 56 . In the case of HIV infection this mechanism would have only a mild atherogenic effect or not at all on the background of hypocholesterolemia characteristic for untreated HIV 1 infection 55 57 . Treatment of HIV infected patients with HAART causes a sharp rise of triglyceride rich VLDL resulting in enhanced lipid uptake and foam cell formation 58 and small dense LDL 59 60 which are particularly susceptible to oxidation 61 are more able to infiltrate the subendothelial space and are a risk factor for CHD 62 . A combination of these effects of HAART and impairment of cholesterol efflux by HIV which prevents compensatory removal of excessive cholesterol would result in a greatly enhanced accumulation of cholesterol in HIV infected macrophages and would potentially further increase the risk of development of atherosclerosis. It should be noted that HIV infected macrophages unlike T cells survive for extended periods of time and are considered long term reservoirs of HIV 1 63 . As a result infected macrophages persist at least for some time in HAART treated patients where conditions favor development of atherosclerotic plaques. We can speculate that these macrophages may contribute to initiation of atherosclerotic plaque formation which then proceeds even in the absence of newly infected cells. This mechanism is consistent with the presence of HIV infected macrophages in atherosclerotic plaques of HAART treated patients observed in our study . However further in vivo and clinical studies are required to evaluate the contribution of the impairment of reverse cholesterol transport to the risk of atherosclerosis in HIV patients.

Findings presented in this report provide an example of how viruses may interfere with cellular cholesterol metabolism and may potentially affect the risk of atherosclerosis. This example may be not unique to HIV. Other viruses such as Herpes virus or Cytomegalovirus were found in atherosclerotic plaques and were epidemiologically associated with elevated risk of development of atherosclerosis 64 66 . Future studies will determine whether these viruses cause disturbances in cholesterol metabolism similar to those found in this study. In support of this possibility several reports demonstrated that bacterial and viral pathogens may modulate macrophage cholesterol efflux by down regulating ABC transporters via LXR dependent 24 and LXR independent 25 pathways. The first pathway is engaged after activation of Toll like receptors by invading viruses or bacteria. The second pathway involves the negative effect of bacterial endotoxin on ABCA1 mRNA levels in macrophages 25 . Both pathways promote conversion of macrophages into foam cells which may acquire resistance to pathogen but retain their atherogenic properties 12 . Therefore the effect on reverse cholesterol transport may be a common feature of viral and bacterial infection of macrophages although mechanisms involved are likely unique for each infection.

Cholesterol efflux is a pathway for removing excessive cholesterol from cells to extracellular acceptors. It is the first step of reverse cholesterol transport and it plays a key role in maintaining cell cholesterol homeostasis. Impairment of cholesterol efflux leads to accumulation of intracellular cholesterol 26 and development of atherosclerosis in animal models 27 and in humans 28 29 . Analysis of cholesterol efflux from monocyte derived macrophages infected in vitro with HIV 1 ADA 30 demonstrated a substantial inhibition of apolipoprotein A I apoA I specific efflux . A similar effect was observed in macrophages infected with two primary macrophage tropic HIV 1 strains Yu 2 and 92US660 indicating that impairment of cholesterol efflux is a general feature of HIV 1 replication in macrophages . The level of cholesterol efflux inhibition correlated with the level of virus replication . Importantly at the time of analysis 21 days after infection 80 90 of the cells infected with ADA and Yu 2 viruses were p24 positive only 20 of the cells infected with 92US660 strain were p24 positive at that time indicating that RT values in these infections reflected the amount of virus produced per cell and that cholesterol efflux impairment depended on the level of virus protein expression.

Previous studies demonstrated that the HIV 1 protein Nef can directly bind cholesterol and suggested that in CD4 T cells Nef may be involved in transporting cholesterol to the sites of HIV assembly at the plasma membrane 5 . To test the role of Nef in the observed impairment of cholesterol efflux from macrophages we infected macrophages with HIV 1 SF2 constructs carrying a mutated or a functional Nef gene. To ensure similar levels of infection the constructs were pseudotyped by the glycoprotein of vesicular stomatitis virus VSV G which targets HIV 1 entry to an endocytic pathway thus eliminating the requirement for Nef in the early steps of infection 31 . Under these one cycle replication conditions both viruses infected about 40 of cells and produced similar levels of p24 . Cholesterol efflux to apoA I was substantially reduced in the culture infected with the Nef positive virus WT whereas in the culture infected with Nef deficient virus Nef it was similar to the level observed in uninfected cells . This result indicates that Nef is necessary for HIV mediated impairment of cholesterol efflux.

To determine whether Nef is sufficient for the observed effect we transiently transfected murine macrophages RAW 264.7 with constructs expressing SF2 derived Nef SwissProt accession P03407 and stimulated ABCA1 expression in these cells by LXR agonist TO 901317. Cholesterol efflux to apoA I from Nef transfected RAW 264.7 macrophages was significantly reduced by more than 50 compared to cells transfected with an empty vector mock transfection . This result indicates that expression of Nef is sufficient to impair cholesterol efflux from macrophages. Interestingly Nef mutant Nef.G2A defective in myristoylation and membrane localization 5 was not effective in impairing cholesterol efflux despite levels of expression being similar to that of WT Nef . Cholesterol efflux impairment in Nef transfected RAW cells was less than in HIV infected macrophages likely due to differences between these cell types.

Specific efflux of cholesterol from cells is mediated by the members of the family of ATP binding cassette ABC transporters. The A1 transporter ABCA1 is responsible for lipidation of lipid poor apoA I with cellular lipids 32 whereas ABCG1 controls efflux to mature HDL 33 . Our finding that Nef inhibits cholesterol efflux to apoA I suggests that ABCA1 may be the specific target of Nef. Consistent with this notion cholesterol efflux to HDL controlled by ABCG1 from HIV infected macrophages was not significantly impaired . Furthermore phospholipid efflux which is dependent on ABCA1 34 from Nef transfected RAW 264.7 macrophages was reduced similar to the effect of Nef on cholesterol efflux . In addition Nef did not affect cholesterol efflux from RAW 264.7 cells where ABCA1 expression was not stimulated and consequently was very low .

The notion that ABCA1 mediated efflux is the target of Nef was further supported by experiments in HeLa cells which do not express ABC transporters and have very low background cholesterol efflux to apoA I 35 . Consistent with previous report 36 transfection of HeLa cells with ABCA1 SwissProt accession O95477 significantly enhanced cholesterol efflux to apoA I whereas co transfection with Nef derived from SF2 or LAI strains SwissProt accession P03406 of HIV 1 brought the efflux back to the level observed in mock transfected cells . Importantly NefLAI which was expressed to higher levels than NefSF2 was more effective also in cholesterol efflux impairment. A similar experiment testing the effect of Nef on ABCG1 directed cholesterol efflux showed stimulation of cholesterol efflux to HDL after transfection of HeLa cells with ABCG1 SwissProt accession P45844 but did not reveal significant inhibition by Nef . Therefore we conclude that Nef specifically targets ABCA1 dependent cholesterol efflux.

Since ABCA1 appears to be the target of Nef we tested ABCA1 abundance by Western blotting and transcription by real time RT PCR in HIV infected human macrophages and Nef transfected RAW 264.7 cells. Analysis of ABCA1 in macrophages at the peak of HIV 1 ADA replication showed a substantial decrease of ABCA1 abundance . Importantly abundance of two other proteins involved in cholesterol efflux to HDL ABCG1 and SR B1 was not affected by HIV infection consistent with specific targeting of the ABCA1 dependent pathway by the virus. A similar phenomenon was observed in Nef transfected RAW 264.7 macrophages although the effect was less pronounced approximately 50 reduction in ABCA1 abundance when assessed by densitometry of the Western blot . The Nef.G2A mutant which was inactive in cholesterol efflux impairment was also inactive in depleting ABCA1. RT PCR analysis revealed a significant increase of ABCA1 mRNA in HIV infected or Nef transfected cells which likely reflects a compensatory response for the loss of ABCA1 37 . This observation rules out an effect of Nef on ABCA1 transcription and suggests a post transcriptional down regulation of ABCA1 by Nef. Therefore down regulation of ABCA1 is one of the mechanisms responsible for impairment of cholesterol efflux by HIV 1.

Although down regulation of ABCA1 alone would account for a substantial part of the inhibition of cholesterol efflux we further found that intracellular distribution of ABCA1 was also affected by HIV infection. Recent reports established that ABCA1 resides both on the plasma membrane and in endocytic vesicles 36 and demonstrated the role of endosomal ABCA1 and trafficking of ABCA1 between endosomes and plasma membrane in the apoA I mediated efflux of cellular lipids from the endosomal compartment 38 39 . show p24 staining and show ABCA1 distribution in human macrophages infected with Nef deficient Nef and Nef expressing HIV 1 respectively. Consistent with the findings of Neufeld and colleagues 36 ABCA1 was distributed evenly between the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane in human macrophages either uninfected not shown or infected with Nef deficient HIV 1 Fig 4C as well as in mock transfected murine RAW 264.7 cells . It appears that in macrophages infected with Nef expressing HIV 1 ABCA1 was re localized to the cell periphery p24 positive cells in . This re localization of ABCA1 to the plasma membrane was even more pronounced in Nef transfected murine macrophages RAW 264.7 compare . No re localization of ABCA1 was observed in macrophages transfected with Nef.G2A . Therefore Nef expression induces re localization of ABCA1 which requires membrane targeting of Nef.

Previous studies demonstrated that apoA I specifically binds to ABCA1 at the cell surface 40 42 . It was also suggested that trafficking of apoA I to intracellular cholesterol pools correlates with trafficking of ABCA1 39 43 . Consistent with re localization of ABCA1 to the plasma membrane the specific binding of I apoA I to Nef transfected RAW 264.7 macrophages was increased left panel . However internalization of I apoA I was almost completely blocked supporting the model whereby Nef impairs intracellular trafficking of ABCA1 right panel . Degradation of I apoA I was negligible and was not affected by Nef not shown .

Therefore Nef dependent changes in intracellular distribution of ABCA1 may be another mechanism responsible for impairment of cholesterol efflux.

Nef has been shown to modulate expression of several trans membrane proteins. In some cases e.g. with CD4 or MHC I Nef down regulates the protein and in some e.g. with invariant chain of MHC class II or with DC SIGN it up regulates protein s surface expression ref. 44 and references therein . Some of these effects including down regulation of CD4 45 and MHC I 46 have been shown to depend on an interaction between Nef and the target protein. We therefore tested whether Nef interacts with ABCA1. HeLa cells were co transfected with Nef or Nef.G2A and FLAG tagged ABCA1 ABCA1 was immunoprecipitated using anti FLAG antibody and immunoprecipitates were analyzed for co precipitation of Nef. This analysis revealed that Nef co precipitated with ABCA1 whereas Nef.G2A did not upper panel despite equally high expression of the two forms of Nef lower panel . We conclude that Nef can interact with ABCA1 and this interaction requires myristoylation of Nef and correlates with the ability of Nef to impair cholesterol efflux. The Nef specific signal observed in this experiment required high level expression of participating proteins likely due to the transitory nature of Nef interaction with ABCA1.

Interaction between ABCA1 and Nef at the plasma membrane was supported by confocal microscopy which demonstrated co localization of Nef and ABCA1 in RAW 264.7 cells transfected with Nef.wt expressing vector . No co localization was observed between ABCA1 and Nef.G2A . This visual analysis was reinforced by an analytical quantification presented in . Indeed both ABCA1 and the wild type Nef proteins are found at the cell periphery and their co localization is indicated by overlapping green and blue peaks at either end of the graph. Moreover both colors peak and valley in tandem suggesting a correlation in subcellular localization of ABCA1 and wild type Nef. No such correlation is observed in ABCA1 and Nef.G2A distribution. Taken together these results suggest that interaction between ABCA1 and Nef occurs at the cell plasma membrane.

Therefore both re localization and down modulation of ABCA1 depend on its interaction with Nef which in turn requires myristoylation and membrane localization of Nef.

To determine whether impairment of cholesterol efflux by HIV 1 infection leads to cholesterol accumulation and foam cell formation we loaded macrophages uninfected or infected with Nef expressing or Nef deficient HIV 1 with lipids by incubating with acetylated LDL AcLDL in the presence of apoA I and stained cellular lipids with Oil Red O. This experiment revealed formation of typical lipid rich cells in cultures infected with Nef expressing HIV 1 whereas uninfected cells or macrophages infected with Nef deficient virus accumulated substantially less cholesterol compare panels A B and C in . Analysis by transmission electron microscopy revealed more lipid vacuoles pointed by arrows in in macrophages infected with Nef expressing HIV 1 than in uninfected cells or cells infected with Nef deficient HIV 1 compare E and F . Cholesterol loading of RAW 264.7 macrophages transfected with Nef also led to accumulation of significantly larger amounts of lipids when compared to cells transfected with an empty vector compare panels H and I in . In addition Nef transfected RAW 264.7 macrophages demonstrated accelerated cholesteryl ester synthesis especially when cells were loaded with AcLDL . Enhanced synthesis of cholesteryl esters is a sensitive indicator of accumulation of cholesterol inside the cells and a key element of foam cell formation.

Measurements of cholesterol mass confirmed substantially higher cholesteryl ester content in Nef transfected RAW 264.7 macrophages compared to mock transfected cells there was also more free cholesterol in the transfected macrophages . Synthesis of triglycerides was not affected indicating that increased cholesteryl ester synthesis and content is a consequence of increased concentration of cholesterol rather than that of fatty acids. The increased cholesterol content in Nef transfected cells was not caused by differences in AcLDL uptake as the latter was similar between Nef transfected and mock transfected cells . To accommodate the increasing amounts of cholesteryl esters cells would require an additional amount of phospholipids and indeed the efflux of phospholipids was inhibited while phospholipid synthesis was accelerated in Nef transfected cells . Taken together these results indicate that HIV 1 infection via Nef expression impairs reverse cholesterol transport in macrophages and leads to accumulation of lipids and formation of foam cells.

Our finding that HIV 1 infection of macrophages impairs cholesterol efflux from these cells suggests that HIV infected macrophages may potentially contribute to the development of atherosclerotic plaque especially when combined with dyslipidemia found in PI treated patients. Immunostaining of sections of atherosclerotic plaques obtained from HAART treated HIV infected patients demonstrated the presence of p24 macrophages panels A B E and F in . In areas surrounding lipid cores some p24 cells displayed a typical foam cell appearance . Analysis of parallel consecutive sections stained with anti CD68 showed that these p24 cells were located in areas composed of CD68 cells indicating the macrophage nature of p24 foam cells. Double immunostaining confirmed this notion by demonstrating the association of p24 staining with CD68 macrophages and macrophage foam cells panels E and F . These findings indicate that HIV infected cholesterol loaded macrophages are present in the atherosclerotic plaque and therefore may potentially be involved in pathophysiological events leading to the development of atherosclerosis.

To determine whether impairment of cholesterol efflux has a role in HIV biology we compared infectivity of HIV virions produced from monocyte derived macrophages stimulated or not with an LXR agonist TO 901317. We hypothesized that if impairment of cholesterol efflux is a specific mechanism to increase HIV replication then agents counteracting this effect should have anti HIV activity. LXR agonists up regulate expression of ABCA1 at a transcriptional level and stimulate cholesterol efflux from various cell types including human monocyte derived macrophages 47 and . When added to HIV infected macrophages at day 7 after infection and kept with cells for another 7 days to allow ABCA1 to accumulate and overcome Nef mediated inhibition LXR agonist prevented the impairment of cholesterol efflux by HIV 1 infection in fact cholesterol efflux from TO 901317 treated HIV infected macrophages was similar to efflux from uninfected cells stimulated with the LXR agonist. The lack of HIV specific reduction of cholesterol efflux is likely due to overproduction of ABCA1 which exceeds production of Nef. Virions were collected from TO 901317 treated and untreated cells adjusted according to p24 content and analyzed for infectivity using indicator P4 CCR5 cells. This analysis revealed a substantial reduction by about 80 of infectivity of virions produced from macrophages treated with LXR agonist . Interestingly protein composition of the virions produced from LXR agonist treated and untreated cells was very similar data not shown whereas virion associated cholesterol was significantly diminished in virions produced from TO 901317 treated macrophages . These results suggest that stimulation of cellular cholesterol efflux may be an effective approach to suppressing HIV replication.

Human monocyte derived macrophage cultures. Monocyte derived macrophages were prepared from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of normal donors using adherence to plastic and differentiated in the presence of macrophage colony stimulating factor essentially as previously described 67 . No stimulation with LXR agonist was performed unless indicated.

Antibodies. The following antibodies were used for Western blotting rabbit polyclonal anti ABCA1 Novus Biologicals rabbit polyclonal and mouse monoclonal anti Nef AIDS Research and Reference Reagent Program rabbit polyclonal anti ABCG1 Novus Biologicals rabbit polyclonal anti SR B1 Novus Biologicals mouse monoclonal anti B actin Sigma .

Viruses and infections. Macrophage tropic HIV 1 strains Yu 2 and 92US660 were obtained from the NIH AIDS Research and Reference Reagent Program. VSV G pseudotyped HIV 1 was prepared by co transfecting HEK 293T cells with Env deficient HIV 1 infectious clones 5 and VSV G expressing plasmid pHEF VSVG 68 . All infections were performed using 3.5 10cpm of RT activity per 10cells.

FACS analysis of HIV infected macrophages. To determine the percentage of HIV infected cells HIV infected macrophages were detached from the plate fixed in 4 formalin PBS permeabilized using Becton Dickinson permeabilization washing solution 15 min at 4 C. and incubated with PE conjugated anti p24 mAb or isotype control IgG for 30 min at 4 C. After washing cells were analyzed on a FACScan flow cytometer Becton Dickinson .

Transfection. RAW 264.7 mouse macrophage cells were transiently transfected using DEAE dextran method and 5 azacytidine as described previously 69 . The efficiency of transfection was 80 90 . HEK 293T and HeLa cells were transfected using Metafectene reagent Biontex following manufacturer s protocol. The efficiency of transfection was 80 .

Cholesterol and phospholipid efflux from RAW264.7 cells. RAW 264.7 cells were incubated in labeling medium containing H cholesterol 75 kBq ml or methyl C choline 0.2 MBq ml for 48 hours. Cells were then incubated for 18 h in serum free medium in the presence of the LXR agonist TO 901317 final concentration 1 M to stimulate ABCA1 expression and cholesterol efflux. Cells were then washed with PBS and incubated for 3 h in either serum free medium alone blank or in serum free medium supplemented with 30 g ml of lipid free apoA I or 30 g ml of HDL 70 . For cholesterol efflux analysis aliquots of medium and cells were counted. Phospholipids were isolated from medium and cells by TLC as described previously 71 . The efflux was calculated as radioactivity in the medium radioactivity in the medium radioactivity remaining in the cells 100 . ApoA I dependent efflux is efflux to apoA I minus efflux to blank.

Cholesterol efflux from monocyte derived macrophages and HeLa cells. The same procedure as described above was used except that cells were not stimulated with LXR agonist and efflux was allowed to proceed for 12 h rather than 3 h used for RAW 264.7 cells. Efflux to serum free medium supplemented with 30 g ml of human serum albumin was used as a control.

Phospholipid biosynthesis. RAW 264.7 cells were incubated in serum free medium containing methyl C choline 0.2 MBq ml for 2 h. Cells were washed lipids were extracted and separated by TLC 71 . Phospholipid biosynthesis was defined as incorporation of C choline into phospholipids per mg of cell protein per 2 h.

Cholesteryl ester and triglyceride biosynthesis and content. RAW 264.7 cells were incubated with or without AcLDL 50 g mL in the presence of 30 ug ml of lipid free apoA I or 5 normolipidemic human plasma for 2 h at 37 C. Cells were then incubated for 2 h with 37 kBq mL C oleic acid presented to the cells as a BSA sodium oleate complex . Cells were washed lipids extracted and C oleic acid incorporation into cholesteryl esters and triglyceride was measured after separation of the extracts by TLC 72 . Cellular free and total cholesterol content were measured using enzymatic assay Roche . Free cholesterol content was calculated as a difference between total and esterified cholesterol.

AcLDL uptake. AcLDL was labeled with I using Iodobeads Pierce according to the manufacturer instructions the final specific radioactivity was 100 cpm ng protein. Cells were incubated with I AcLDL at the final concentration 5 ug ml in the presence or absence of 100 fold excess of unlabeled AcLDL for 2 h at 37 C. The amount of degraded I AcLDL in the medium was determined as non iodine trichloroacetic acid soluble radioactivity. Cells were then washed and counted and specific AcLDL uptake was calculated as a sum of cell associated and degraded I AcLDL after subtraction of non specific binding and degradation i.e. measured in the presence of unlabeled AcLDL .

ApoA I binding internalization and degradation. Human apoA I was labeled with I using Iodobeads the final specific radioactivity was 200 cpm ng protein. Cells were incubated with I apoA I at the final concentration 2 g ml in the presence or absence of a 100 fold excess of unlabeled apoA I for 2 h at 37 C. The amount of degraded I apoA I in the medium was determined as non iodine trichloroacetic acid soluble radioactivity. Cells were then washed treated with 0.05 trypsin for 5 min at 37 C. to remove surface bound I apoA I and centrifuged. Radioactivity in supernatant binding and pellet internalization was counted and specific apoA I binding internalization and degradation was calculated after subtraction of non specific values measured in the presence of unlabeled apoA I.

Co immunoprecipitation of Nef and ABCA1. HeLa cells were co transfected with ABCA1 FLAG and Nef. 48 h post transfection cells were homogenized in PBS and batch immunoprecipitations using M2 affinity gel Sigma were carried out according to manufacturer s protocol. Immunoprecipitate was analyzed by Western blotting using polyclonal anti ABCA1 Novus Biologicals and anti Nef AIDS Research and Reference Reagent Program antibodies.

Oil Red O Staining. Human monocyte derived macrophages and RAW 264.7 cells stimulated with LXR agonist were incubated with AcLDL 50 g ml in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 1 Nutridoma Roche and 30 g ml of lipid free apoA I for 18 hrs. After washing with PBS cells were fixed in 3.7 formaldehyde for 2 min washed with water and incubated at room temperature for 1 h with Oil Red O working solution Fisher Biotech . The Oil Red O solution was removed by aspiration the cells were washed with water and 0.02 sodium azide was added to the cells. The cells were observed using a reflecting light microscope 90 magnification fitted with a camera.

Fluorescent Microscopy. For visualization of ABCA1 localization approximately 106 monocyte derived macrophages were plated into each well of a 24 well plate containing polylysine coated coverslips Becton Dickinson Labware and infected with VSV G pseudotyped wild type or Nef deleted HIV 1 viruses or left uninfected. At 5 days post infection coverslips with adherent macrophages were removed from the wells washed with PBS and cells were fixed with 4 formaldehyde in PBS for 20 min at room temperature. After fixing cells were washed three times with PBS and incubated for 1 h at room temperature in 4 goat serum in PBS . After washing in PBS rabbit polyclonal antibody to ABCA1 Novus Biologicals and mouse monoclonal antibody to p24 73 were added in 4 goat serum 0.1 BSA and 0.1 Saponin. Anti ABCA1 antibody was added at a 1 500 dilution and anti p24 antibody at 1 100. Following a 2 h incubation at room temperature the coverslips were washed with PBS and incubated with Cy 5 conjugated anti rabbit and Rhodamine conjugated anti mouse secondary antibodies Jackson Immunoresearch for 1 h at room temperature. Coverslips were mounted onto slides using Prolong Molecular Probes and allowed to dry overnight. Visualization of stained cells was accomplished using a Bio Rad MRC 1024 confocal laser scanning microscope and software.

RAW 264.7 cells LXR agonist stimulated were grown on collagen coated cover slips and transfected with Nef expressing construct or an empty vector. Cells were cultured for 48 h prior to immunostaining washed with PBS fixed with 4 formaldehyde and quenched with 50 mM NHCl. After permeabilization with 0.5 Triton X 100 cells were incubated with the monoclonal anti ABCA1 antibody NDF4C2 for 1 h washed with PBS and incubated in the dark with a secondary goat anti mouse FITC labeled antibody for 1 h. For co localization analysis monoclonal anti ABCA1 and polyclonal anti Nef antibody was used followed by Cy5 conjugated anti mouse staining ABCA1 in blue and FITC conjugated anti rabbit staining Nef in green antibodies. Cells were washed again with PBS and after mounting onto glass slides were studied using Zeiss META confocal microscope. Image analysis was performed using the LSM 510 software of the Zeiss microscope which analyzes the distribution of the fluorescence along cell section.

Transmission electron microscopy. Macrophages infected with HIV 1were fixed in 2.5 neutral buffered glutaraldehyde pelleted gelled into agar post fixed in 1 OsO block stained in uranyl acetate dehydrated in graded ethanol and propylene oxide and embedded in Spurr s resin. Thin sections were stained with uranylacetate and lead citrate and examined on a LEO EM 10 electron microscope at 60 kV.

Real Time RT PCR. cDNA was prepared from total cellular RNA from human monocyte derived macrophages and analyzed by QPCR using IQ Sybr Green Supermix from BIO RAD Hecules C A according to manufacturer s recommendations with the following primers 300 nM of each primer per sample ABCA1 sense 5 GAGCCTCCCCAGGAGTCG 3 ABCA1 antisense 5 CAAACATGTCAGCTGTTACTGGAAG 3 B actin sense 5 GCCGTACCACTGGCATCGTG 3 B actin antisense 5 GTGGTGGTGAAGCTGTA 3 . Primers were ordered from Integration DNA Technologies Coralville Iowa . Serial dilutions of ABCA1 pTRE 35 and B actin cDNA QPCR Plasmid Standard from Invitrogen plasmids were used to calculate the copy number of ABCA1 and B actin cDNA per sample and results were adjusted according to B actin cDNA levels. The abundance of ABCA1 specific RNA in RAW cells was determined as described previously 74 .

Autopsies. Segments of the aortic wall were removed at autopsy from four HAART treated AIDS patients males aged 39 40 44 and 47 at the Institute of Forensic Medicine Sydney Australia. The specimens were fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin. Parallel sections were immunostained with the p24 antibody to detect HIV 1 and anti CD68 antibody to identify macrophages. Single and double using DAKO DOUBLESTAIN Kit System 40 immunostaining was carried out as described previously 75 . Sections of lymph nodes excised from the AIDS patients served as a positive control.

Infectivity assay. Virus infectivity was analyzed using P4 CCR5 indicator cells 76 that express B galactosidase under control of HIV 1 LTR. Briefly cells were seeded into a 96 well plate at a density of 7 500 cells per well and allowed to adhere overnight. The media was then removed and replaced with virus in suspension normalized according to RT activity or with fresh media as a control. Infection was allowed to proceed for 48 hours at 37 C. then the virus was removed and 100 l of lysis buffer B Galactosidase Enzyme Assay System Promega was added. The plate was then frozen overnight at 70 C. to ensure efficient lysis. Upon thawing 50 ul of lysate was placed into a new 96 well plate and 50 ul of 2 Assay Buffer was added. The plate was incubated at 37 C. for 1.5 hours and OD readings were taken at 420 nm.

Analysis of virion associated cholesterol. Seven days post infection with HIV ADA H cholesterol was added to the cultures at a final concentration of 75 kBq ml. 24 hours after addition of cholesterol the labeled media was removed the cells were washed with PBS and the new media was added containing or not 500 nM of LXR agonist TO 901317 Sigma . Culture supernatants were collected every 3 days over the period of 2 weeks pooled and virions were pelleted by ultracentrifugation normalized according to p24 value and the amount of incorporated H cholesterol counted on a beta counter.

Statistical analysis. All experiments were reproduced two to four times and representative experiments are shown. Student s t test was used to determine statistical significance of the differences.

As exemplified above the present invention is identifying Nef as a causative factor for impairment of cholesterol efflux in HIV 1 infected cells. Impairment of cholesterol efflux relates to CAD and HIV infection. This utility provides methods generally described below for i treating coronary artery disease in HIV 1 infected individuals ii for suppressing HIV infection and iii methods for monitoring therapeutic treatments designed to effectively treat such disease.

The methods for treating coronary artery disease in HIV 1 infected cells under the invention comprise 

The methods for suppressing HIV infection under the invention comprise stimulating cholesterol efflux from cells by stimulating expression of ABCA1 using chemical agents. Examples of the chemical agents include but are not limited to agonists of LXR RXR or PPAR nuclear receptors.

It is well understood that various other modifications will be apparent to and can readily be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the scope of the invention be limited to the description set forth above but rather be construed as encompassing all of the features of patentable novelty which reside in the present invention including all features which would be treated as equivalents thereof by those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains.

Appended below as a part of the invention disclosure is a list of references which recites seventy six 76 publications considered relevant and which are incorporated herein in their entirety as they may be necessary to establish and or provide to a person or ordinary skill in the art information to make and use the claimed invention.

