---

title: Headrest mounted entertainment system
abstract: In certain embodiments, a mobile video system is provided that includes a first entertainment system mountable in a first headrest of a vehicle. The first entertainment system includes a first input having a structure and a first output having a structure. The mobile video system also includes a second entertainment system mountable in a second headrest of a vehicle. The second entertainment system includes a second input and a second output. The second input has a structure the same as the structure of the first input and the second output has a structure the same as the structure of the first output. The mobile video system also includes an adapter configured to couple the first input with the second output and the second input with the first output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07812784&OS=07812784&RS=07812784
owner: 
number: 07812784
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060626
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 732 788 filed Nov. 2 2005 titled HEADREST ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 740 540 filed Nov. 29 2005 titled HEADREST ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 811 879 filed Jun. 7 2006 titled HEADREST MOUNTED ENTERTAINMENT SYSTEM the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this specification.

This application relates to entertainment systems that can be mounted in a vehicle such as an automobile and more particularly relates to headrest mounted entertainment systems for vehicles.

In one embodiment a mobile video system is provided that comprises a first entertainment system mountable in a first headrest of a vehicle. The first entertainment system comprises a first input having a structure and a first output having a structure. The mobile video system further comprises a second entertainment system mountable in a second headrest of a vehicle. The second entertainment system comprises a second input and a second output. The second input has a structure the same as the structure of the first input and the second output has a structure the same as the structure of the first output. The mobile video system further comprises an adapter configured to couple the first input with the second output and the second input with the first output.

In another embodiment a media system is provided that comprises a first headrest mountable entertainment system. The first headrest mountable entertainment system comprises a first connector comprising a first input and a first output. The media system further comprises a second headrest mountable entertainment system. The second headrest mountable entertainment system comprises a second connector comprising a second input and a second output. The media system further comprises an adapter. The adapter comprises a third connector configured to couple with either the first or second connector and a fourth connector configured to couple with either the first or second connector. The adapter further comprises a first communication line coupled with the third and fourth connectors such that the first output is able to communicate with the second input or the second output is able to communicate with the first input. The adapter further comprises a second communication line coupled with the third and fourth connectors such that the first output is able to communicate with the second input or the second output is able to communicate with the first input.

In another embodiment a mobile video system is provided. The system includes a motorized land vehicle and an entertainment system. The motorized land vehicle includes a passenger compartment and a seat that has a headrest. The seat is positioned in the passenger compartment. The entertainment system includes a component mounting frame that is configured to be positioned in the headrest a signal source a video monitor and a cover. The signal source has an access aperture through which a non volatile storage medium can be inserted. The signal source is capable of generating a signal based on data stored in the non volatile storage medium. The signal source is coupled with the component mounting frame such that when the component mounting frame is positioned in the headrest the access aperture is located adjacent an upper surface of the headrest. The video monitor is configured to reproduce at least a portion of the signal. The cover is pivotably mounted to the component mounting frame and has a first position in which the access aperture is exposed such that the non volatile storage medium can be inserted therethrough and a second position in which the access aperture is blocked.

In another embodiment a headrest entertainment assembly is provided that comprises a headrest and an entertainment system. The headrest has an upper surface a lower surface and a cavity. The entertainment system includes a component mounting frame a signal source a monitor and a cover. The component mounting frame is configured to be positioned within the cavity of the headrest. The signal source has an access aperture through which a non volatile storage medium can be inserted. The signal source is capable of generating a signal based on data stored in the non volatile storage medium. The signal source is coupled with the component mounting frame such that the access aperture is adjacent the upper surface of the headrest when the component mounting frame is positioned in the cavity. The monitor is coupled with the component mounting frame and is configured to reproduce at least a portion of the signal. The cover is coupled with the mounting frame and has a first position in which the access aperture is exposed such that the non volatile storage medium can be inserted through the access aperture and a second position in which the access aperture is blocked.

In another embodiment a headrest entertainment system is provided that includes a frame a DVD player a monitor and a cover. The frame is configured to be positioned within a vehicle headrest. The DVD player has a slot through which a digital video disc DVD can be inserted. The DVD player is coupled with the frame such that the slot is adjacent an upper surface of the headrest when the frame is positioned within the headrest. The monitor is coupled with the frame and configured to reproduce at least a video portion of the DVD. The cover has a first position in which the access aperture is exposed such that the DVD can be inserted through the slot and a second position in which the slot is blocked.

In another embodiment a headrest entertainment system is provided that comprises a frame configured to be positioned within a vehicle headrest. The entertainment system further comprises a source coupled with the frame and configured to generate a signal to be reproduced within a vehicle. The signal includes a radio portion. The entertainment system further comprises a monitor coupled with the frame and configured to reproduce at least the video portion of the signal. The entertainment system further comprises a first aperture positioned on a first surface of the headrest and a second aperture positioned on a second surface of the headrest opposite the first surface. The entertainment system further comprises a fan coupled with the frame and positioned adjacent to at least one of the apertures.

In another embodiment a headrest entertainment system is provided that comprises a vehicle headrest a frame a DVD player a monitor and a heat management system. The vehicle headrest has a cavity formed therein. The frame is configured to be positioned within the cavity of the vehicle headrest. The DVD player has a slot through which a digital video disc DVD can be inserted. The monitor is coupled with the frame and is configured to reproduce at least a video portion of a signal from the DVD. The heat management system includes a plurality of venting structures and a fan. The venting structures are formed adjacent to an external surface of the headrest. The fan is coupled with the frame and positioned adjacent to at least one of the venting structures.

In another embodiment a mobile media system is provided that comprises an entertainment system having a first cable coupled with a first plug. The first plug comprises a first interference surface. The mobile media system further comprises a second cable coupled with a second plug. The second plug comprises a second interference surface and the first and second plugs are configured to couple with each other. The mobile media system further comprises a retention device that includes a body at least partially defining a cavity configured to accept the first and second plugs. The retention device further comprises a third interference surface configured to cooperate with the first interference surface to substantially prevent movement of the first plug relative to the second plug. The retention device further comprises a fourth interference surface configured to cooperate with the second interference surface to substantially prevent movement of the second plug relative to the first plug.

In another embodiment a media system is provided that comprises an entertainment system configured to be mounted in a headrest of a vehicle. The entertainment system has a first cable coupled with a first connector. The media system further comprises a second cable coupled with a second connector and the first and second connectors are configured to couple with each other. The media system further comprises a retainer configured to couple with the first and second connectors. The retainer substantially inhibits axial movement between the first and second connectors when coupled therewith.

In another embodiment a media system is provided that comprises an entertainment system configured to be mounted in a headrest of a vehicle. The entertainment system has a first cable coupled with a first connector. The media system further comprises a second cable coupled with a second connector and the first and second connectors are configured to couple with each other. The media system further comprises a retainer configured to couple with the first and second connectors. The retainer substantially inhibits transverse movement between the first and second connectors when coupled therewith.

In another embodiment a media system is provided that comprises an entertainment system configured to be mounted in a headrest of a vehicle. The entertainment system comprises a first cable coupled with a first connector. The media system further comprises a second cable coupled with a second connector and the first and second connectors configured to couple with each other. The media system further comprises a retainer comprising a first interference surface and a second interference surface. The first and second interference surfaces are configured to substantially prevent axial movement of the first and second connectors relative to each other. The retainer further comprises at least a third interference surface configured to substantially prevent radial movement of the first and second connectors relative to each other. The retainer further comprises a fastener configured to permit the retainer to selectively couple with and decouple from the first and second connectors.

The headrest entertainment assembly includes a vehicle headrest and an entertainment system . Preferably the headrest entertainment assembly is mounted in a vehicle such as a car. As used herein car is a broad term and is used in its ordinary sense and refers without limitation to any personal land transportation vehicle e.g. a passenger automobile a truck a van a minivan a sport utility vehicle and similar such vehicles. Certain features aspects and advantages of the embodiments described herein can be used with other vehicles.

The headrest entertainment assembly can be constructed by various preferred methods which are discussed below. Broadly in one method the headrest is formed about other portions of the headrest entertainment assembly so as to provide an integral unit. In other methods interchangeability of components is enhanced by making the headrest separable from other components of the headrest entertainment assembly .

Features of the vehicle headrest are discussed below in connection with various embodiments. In one variation discussed below the headrest forms a portion of a seat of a vehicle and can be separately movable or adjustable relative to other portions of the seat. Although the headrest environment is preferred in other embodiments entertainment systems comprising a sub combination of the components of the assembly can be deployed in an upper region of a seat e.g. a seat back. The headrest can take other suitable forms.

The headrest entertainment assembly also includes a mounting system . In one variation the mounting system includes at least one seat post that extends between the headrest and a seat back not shown to which the headrest can be coupled. In the illustrated embodiment the mounting system includes two seat posts . The seat posts can be solid or hollow and can be configured to convey signals from or to the headrest entertainment assembly . Preferably where two or more seat posts are provided at least one of the seat posts is hollow having a passage extending therethrough in which at least a portion of a cable conveying the signal can be located. As discussed further below in some embodiments the size of the passage can be enlarged by reducing the thickness of a wall of the seat posts . As discussed further below in some embodiments the headrest entertainment assembly includes a signal source mounted in the headrest . In other embodiments a signal source is not mounted in the headrest but is located elsewhere within the vehicle. In other embodiments the headrest entertainment assembly includes multiple signal sources one or more of which can be mounted in the headrest and one or more of which can be located elsewhere in the vehicle. In other embodiments multiple entertainment systems can be provided in multiple headrests. In other embodiments multiple entertainment systems and multiple signal sources can be provided such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 871 356 which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The seat post arrangement facilitates adjustability of the headrest entertainment assembly . This adjustability can be combined with additional modes of adjustability such as tilting of a monitor or other portion of the headrest entertainment assembly as discussed further below.

As discussed further below the construction of the mounting system e.g. of the posts may be such that cables that interconnect a plurality of entertainment systems can be quickly and efficiently routed therethrough. As discussed further below one way to facilitate quick routing of a signal cable through the post is by increasing the inner cross sectional size e.g. diameter of a hollow passage extending through the post . As discussed further below the inner cross sectional size of a passage extending through the posts can be increased by increasing the size e.g. the inner and outer diameter of the posts . In some applications the outer size of the posts can not be increased because the size of a corresponding post hole in the seat back in which the post is inserted is selected by car or seat manufacture and cannot easily be increased. In some situations such as when the outer size of the posts cannot easily be increased the mounting system can be configured to permit the wall thickness of the posts to be decreased. By providing a fixed outer size and by reducing the thickness of the wall of the post the inner size of the passage in the post can be increased making routing of signal cables easier. In some arrangements discussed further below the mounting system is configured to permit the wall thickness of the posts to be decreased by providing a reinforced member that extends between two posts . The mounting system is discussed in more detail in connection with .

In one embodiment the headrest includes a forward facing side that includes a pad or a pillow to cushion the head of an occupant in the seat with which the headrest is coupled. The pillow may extend to any of a top bottom side facing side and rear facing side of the headrest as shown in . Preferably the pillow is formed by blow molding a foam material into a mold having a shape and design appropriate for the car in which the headrest is to be used. For example the headrest can have the same outer shape and design as the factory headrest. The pad can then be wrapped in a suitable material such as a fabric e.g. solid or perforated leather or other suitable material. As discussed further below in one technique the pad is blow molded directly onto a portion of the mounting system such that the pad and the mounting system are integrally connected. In another technique a pad is blow molded as a separate component and is configured to receive at least a portion of the mounting system during assembly such that the pad and the mounting assembly could be disassembled after shipment from the factory.

As discussed above the pillow provides cushioning for a person seated in the seat with which the headrest is coupled e.g. to minimize injury in the event of an accident. The headrest preferably also includes a rear facing side . Preferably an entertainment system mounting cavity is formed in the headrest . In some embodiments the entertainment system mounting cavity is accessible from the rear facing side .

Access can be provided to the entertainment system mounting cavity through a mounting cavity aperture . Preferably the mounting cavity aperture is shaped to receive the entertainment system . In one embodiment the aperture is at least partially surrounded by a plurality of edges on the rear facing side of the headrest . The aperture can also be partly surrounded by at least one edge on a top surface of the headrest . In some arrangements the headrest includes an intermediate surface that extends between the top surface and the rear facing surface . The intermediate surface can be curved or flat e.g. radiused or beveled. Accordingly the mounting cavity aperture can be at least partly surrounded by one or more edges that extend between the top surface and the rear facing surface of the headrest . In other embodiments the mounting cavity aperture can be at least partially surrounded by one or more edges located on a bottom surface of the headrest .

As discussed below in some embodiments the entertainment system is configured to be able to move when positioned in the mounting cavity aperture . For example in some embodiments the entertainment system can pivot at least partially into and out of the entertainment system mounting cavity through the mounting cavity aperture .

In some embodiments the headrest entertainment assembly includes a cooling system to maintain the operating temperature of the components of the headrest entertainment assembly in an acceptable range. Further details of the cooling system are discussed below. In one embodiment the headrest includes an opening or aperture adjacent which at least a portion of the cooling system can be mounted. The aperture is one configuration of a venting structure that can be incorporated to enhance cooling of the headrest entertainment assembly . In some embodiments at least one of a plurality of apertures and other venting structures adjacent an external surface of the assembly can be provided to enhance cooling. For example as discussed below a first aperture can be provided on one surface and a second aperture can be provided on a second surface that is opposite the first surface. This arrangement advantageously increases cross flow from the first aperture to the second aperture. Cooling of the components of the headrest entertainment assembly can be further enhanced by additional venting structures and by devices e.g. one or more fans which increase flow across the components thereof. Features of various embodiments of cooling systems will be discussed in greater detail below.

In certain embodiments the entertainment system includes a signal source and a monitor . In other embodiments the entertainment system also includes a component cover . In some embodiments the entertainment system further includes a monitor assembly which includes the monitor and facilitates mounting of the monitor. As discussed below the monitor assembly provides one or more advantageous features such as housing the monitor protecting the monitor from damage locating associated components nearby and enabling moving or pivoting of the monitor relative to the headrest as discussed further below.

In some embodiments the entertainment system also includes a component mounting frame to which at least one of the monitor and the signal source are secured. In some arrangements the mounting frame together with at least one component provides a unitary construction. In one embodiment the mounting frame provides a rigid structure for mounting at least one component. In some arrangements the mounting frame is configured to be coupled with the monitor assembly and the signal source . As discussed further below the mounting frame also can be configured to be coupled with the cover in some embodiments.

In one embodiment the monitor assembly the signal source and the cover are all coupled with the mounting frame prior to insertion into the entertainment system mounting cavity . Preassembling the monitor assembly the signal source and the cover to the mounting frame together is convenient for installation because an installer does not have to separately assemble these components which can be easily damaged during the installation process if not handled carefully. Further details of techniques for assembling the headrest entertainment assembly are discussed below.

In one arrangement the monitor assembly is coupled with the frame by a hinge which may comprise the bracket portions .

Coupling of the hinge mounts of the first and second elongate bracket portions can be facilitated by a suitable fastener for example a screw or bolt. In other arrangements a detent arrangement can be relied upon at least in part to couple the first and second elongate portions . In some embodiments means for securing the coupling of the first and second elongate portions or of two portions of the coupling portion can be provided. In one embodiment the means includes a bonding grease that provides a tighter fit between the first and second elongate portions . Where provided the bonding grease can take any suitable form. Preferably the bonding grease enables movement of the first and second elongate portions relative to each other upon application of a threshold force but prevents such movement upon forces less than the threshold force. Preferably the securing means e.g. the bonding grease prevents the bracket portions from becoming separated from each other due to normal vibration that are induced in the monitor assembly from the vehicle. In other embodiments the securing means comprises a suitable adhesive which substantially prevents movement due to vibration or any other force.

When the first and second elongated brackets are coupled at the hinge mounts the monitor assembly is able to pivot relative to the component mounting frame . As shown in in one embodiment the component mounting frame includes a plurality e.g. two monitor coupling portions . also show that in some embodiments a plurality of e.g. two hinges can be provided such as by providing a second elongated bracket on each side of the monitor assembly . The illustrated arrangement permits the monitor assembly to pivot about an axis Aextending through the second elongated brackets . In particular the monitor assembly pivots about the axis Aat an end of the second elongated bracket opposite an end that is coupled with the first elongate mounting bracket in one embodiment.

As discussed further below the pivoting of the monitor assembly about the axis Aserves multiple functions. For example pivoting enables the monitor to be positioned in an orientation that is most comfortable for the user to view the video signal visible thereon. Pivoting also can enable convenient assembly by providing an installation position in which the monitor assembly is spaced from the frame sufficiently to expose mounting structures as discussed below.

The component mounting frame preferably also includes a component cover mount portion . The component cover mount portion can comprise a bracket. In one embodiment the component cover mount portion is located behind e.g. at a location further recessed from the surface in the mounting cavity aperture when the assembly is assembled the monitor coupling portion . Preferably the component cover mount portion is located behind a front side of the component mounting frame . In one embodiment the component cover mount portion extends to a location vertically above a component mounting area . The component mounting area provides a space or volume into which the signal source can be positioned or mounted as discussed below. The component mounting area can be partially or completely enclosed. In some embodiments the component mounting area is substantially exposed on a plurality of e.g. on four sides.

The component mounting frame also preferably includes one or more cooling system mounts . One embodiment of the mounts is shown in detail in . In one arrangement the mount comprises a pair of posts each of which includes an elongated slot into which a component of the cooling system can slide. The slots of the cooling system mounts enable quick assembly of the cooling system and the component mounting frame . As shown in the mounts also can include holes formed at an end thereof spaced from the portion of the frame adjacent the monitor assembly . Preferably the holes in the mounts are threaded to engage screws. In one assembly technique as shown in a cooling fan is positioned between the cooling system mounts . The cooling fan is secured in place with fasteners that are advanced through threaded holes in the mounts . In some embodiments each fastener comprises a flange of sufficient width to contact the cooling fan . The flange applies a force to an upper surface of the cooling fan which prevents the fan from sliding out of the mounts. In other embodiments the fasteners are coupled with washers. In still other embodiments the fasteners are coupled with a stiff elongate piece that extends between the mounts and contacts a top surface of the fan . Each fastener may be secured to a hole in any suitable fashion e.g. with threads or a combination of threads and an adhesives whereby loosening of the fastener is minimized or prevented.

The component mounting frame also preferably includes at least one off set mount post . In one embodiment a plurality of e.g. four off set mount post is provided. In other embodiments less than four e.g. one two or three off set mount posts are provided adjacent an outer portion of the component mount area . The off set mount posts are configured to couple with the mounting system as discussed further below. The off set mount posts can be configured as elongated structures enabling the component mounting frame to be connected to or otherwise coupled with the mounting system . Preferably the off set mount posts are at least as long as and preferably longer than the height or thickness of the signal source . This arrangement provides sufficient clearance between the signal source and the mounting system .

The off set mount posts can be configured as conical structures. In one arrangement the off set mount posts are elongated conical structures that have an aperture formed at an end thereof spaced from the portion of the components mount frame adjacent to the monitor assembly . The aperture in the off set mount posts preferably is configured for a connecting member e.g. a screw to be advanced therethrough to couple with the mounting system as discussed below. In another arrangement the off set mount posts are elongated conical structures with the aperture formed at an end thereof spaced from the component mount frame . In another arrangement the off set mount posts are hollow with an aperture adjacent the portion of the components mount frame adjacent to the monitor assembly . As discussed further below connecting members can be advanced through at least one of the apertures and received by the mounting system to securely fasten the component mounting frame to the mounting system .

In one embodiment the component mounting frame also includes at least one signal source mounting portion . In one embodiment multiple signal source mounting portions are provided. In one arrangement four signal source mounting portions are provided. In another arrangement five signal source mounting portions are provided. Signal source mounting portions can be located adjacent an outer portion of the component mount area . The one or more signal source mounting portions are pegs that limit the movement of the signal source but do not coupled with the signal source .

In other embodiments the signal source mounting portions include a bracket through which a fastening member e.g. a screw or a bolt can be inserted and to couple the signal source with the component mounting frame . In particular a bracket can extend at least partially around the rear side of the component e.g. the side farthest from the portion of the component mounting frame adjacent to the monitor assembly and be coupled thereto by at least one fastener e.g. a screw . Preferably in this arrangement the bracket also includes a plurality of flanges that extend out to the signal source mounting post . In some arrangements connecting members can be advanced through these brackets and into threaded holes formed on exposed surfaces of the signal source mounting portions .

The component mounting frame is configured to facilitate other aspects and features of the entertainment system . For example the component mounting frame can include a generally planar structure having one or more slots formed therein. The slots can be elongated and positioned close together. Also a large number of slots can be provided so as to reduce the weight of the component mounting frame . In some arrangements discussed below the slots function as vents directing heat generated by one or more components away from the entertainment system . This feature is discussed more below in connection with an overall discussion of heat dissipation in the headrest entertainment assembly .

In one embodiment a monitor assembly cavity is formed on a forward side of the component mounting frame . The cavity permits the monitor assembly to be moved to a fully closed position which is a retracted position shown in . In a retracted position the monitor assembly may be positioned within the headrest e.g. at a location in front of the rear facing side thereof.

In one embodiment the monitor is one component of the monitor assembly . The monitor includes a display in one embodiment that can receive video signals from the signal source and display images based on the video signals. In one embodiment the display or monitor is an active matrix TFT LCD panel. Preferably the monitor is relatively thin enabling the entertainment system to be mounted in a standard headrest . In one embodiment the monitor is a 7 inch TFT LCD display. The monitor can have a 16 9 widescreen format. The size of the monitor can vary based on the size of the vehicle structure with which it is coupled e.g. with the size of a headrest within the scope of this application.

In one embodiment the monitor is mounted in a monitor housing . The housing provides various functions. For example the monitor housing enables users to handle the monitor assembly without directly touching the monitor . Also the monitor housing is able to absorb some shock to reduce the likelihood that normal interaction with occupants and objects in a vehicle will damage the monitor . The monitor housing also can host a plurality of controls . The controls can be conventional controls such as would control the operation of the monitor or an aspect of reproduction of the information from the signal source. In one arrangement the controls include a feature whereby transmission of a portion of the signal generated by the signal source e.g. an audio component is controlled such as is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 361 744 filed on Feb. 7 2003 and published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0080213 A1 on Apr. 29 2004 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The entertainment system preferably also includes a locking device . The locking device can be mounted on the monitor assembly on the components mounting frame or a portion on each of the monitor assembly and the components mounting frame . In one embodiment the locking device includes a catch member and an actuatable latch member . The catch member can be located on the component mounting frame e.g. at least partially within the monitor assembly cavity . The actuatable latch member can be located on the monitor housing e.g. adjacent a lower edge thereof. The locking device maintains the monitor in a fully closed position discussed further below until the locking device is unlocked for example by actuating the movable latch . The locking device also can take suitable conventional forms.

In one embodiment the monitor assembly also includes a motion limiter device . In one embodiment the motion limiter device includes a looped portion A coupled at both ends with a mount fixture B as shown in . The motion limiter device can take other forms e.g. as an S hook a chain an elastic member string or other conventional coupler. The motion limiter device can comprise an elongate member configured to be connected to the component mounting frame at one end and to a mount portion located on the monitor housing at another end. For example a post or other structure for coupling to one end of the motion limiter device can be formed in the monitor assembly cavity . In another arrangement an aperture e.g. a threaded hole can be formed in the monitor assembly cavity and the motion limiter device can be coupled with the component mounting frame via the aperture e.g. with a fastener an adhesive a combination thereof or other suitable means. In one embodiment the mount portion comprises a hook or other structure for coupling to an end of the motion limiter device .

In one arrangement the motion limiter can be quickly disengaged to allow the monitor housing to move to an assembly position discussed below. This is facilitated in one arrangement by permanently affixing one end of the motion limiter in the monitor assembly cavity and looping the other end around a hook formed on the rear side of the monitor housing .

As discussed above the monitor assembly is coupled with the mounting frame in the preferred embodiment. In one arrangement the monitor assembly is configured to move relative to the component mounting frame . Movement of the monitor assembly can alter the orientation of the monitor . The arrangement described above enables the monitor of the monitor assembly to move relative to the headrest between a plurality of positions. For example in one embodiment a fully closed position is provided in which the monitor is retracted into the monitor assembly cavity . The fully closed position is illustrated in . Another position is illustrated in and wherein the monitor is tilted out such that a lower end thereof is spaced farther from the monitor assembly cavity than is an upper portion of the monitor .

Preferably the monitor assembly is configured such that when the monitor is positioned in an installation position such as that shown in the monitor maintains its orientation relative to the base of the monitor assembly cavity . Such an arrangement can be provided by configuring the monitor coupling portion e.g. the hinge mount s such that the monitor locks in place when in the installation position. In one arrangement the motion limiter can be a bracket or other compression member which holds the monitor in the assembly orientation. One collapsible bracket arrangement is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 044 546 which is incorporated by reference above.

Preferably the monitor assembly also includes a plurality of apertures formed in a rear surface thereof. The apertures in the rear surface of the monitor assembly enable heat generated by the monitor to be removed from the monitor assembly . As discussed above the component mounting frame is configured to transfer such heat through apertures formed therein. The apertures can be similar to the apertures . In some embodiments the configuration and position of the apertures and the apertures are the same so that heat can be efficiently vented from the monitor and from the monitor assembly cavity . Such heat can further be removed by way of a cooling system discussed below.

The venting structure can be configured to be substantially invisible to the naked eye of passengers in some arrangements. In one embodiment the cover is formed of a permeable material lacking visible holes but through which warm air can be quickly conveyed. Also a cover may include different numbers of holes in different regions based upon where greater heat is expected to be found. The function of the venting structures in combination with a cooling system will be discussed in greater detail below.

The cover preferably has at least two positions. In a first position the cover is moved to conform to an upper surface of the component mounting frame . For example the cover can be moved to conform to or to extend over or otherwise cover the component cover mount portion . In one embodiment the cover is moved to extend over the component access aperture which is a position sometimes referred to herein as the closed position of the cover . The closed position advantageously limits access to the component access aperture . In some arrangements the top of the cover is at an elevation below the top of the headrest . In other arrangements the top of the cover is substantially flush with a top surface of the headrest which provides a sleek continuous appearance as viewed from the front of the headrest .

The cover advantageously prevents foreign objects from extending or falling into the access aperture when in the closed position. This feature can prevent such objects from becoming lodged in the signal source . For example a passengers sitting in the seat with which the headrest is coupled may have long hair. Without the cover in the closed position the person s long hair could slip through the component access aperture and into the signal source . If the signal source has moving parts and is operating the person s hair might become wound around the moving parts. This could harm the person the signal source or both.

As discussed above in some embodiments the headrest entertainment assembly is configured to efficiently remove heat from the entertainment system mounting cavity of the headrest. The heat to be removed can be generated by components mounted therein e.g. the monitor and the signal source . In one form the headrest entertainment assembly is configured for efficient removal of heat by including one or more openings that provide fluid communication between the cavity and the exterior of the headrest .

In some embodiments an airflow path is defined between a first aperture that extends through an outer cover of the headrest a second aperture A that extends through the pillow and a third aperture B that extends through an entertainment system mounting bracket as shown in . Further enhanced cooling can be provided by including the first second and third apertures A and B on both sides of the headrest entertainment assembly . The outer cover may comprise fabric such as solid or perforated leather or other suitable material. In some embodiments the aperture cover extends across the aperture as discussed above. The aperture cover may be attached to the outer cover by any suitable means such as for example by stitching. In some arrangements the aperture cover and outer cover form one unitary piece of material.

In certain embodiments an opening in the pillow aligns with the opening in the outer cover . The opening in the pillow may be formed by removing a portion of the pillow such as by cutting out or punching out the portion. In some embodiments the opening is formed during fabrication of the pillow. For example the mold of a blow molded pillow may be shaped to provide for an opening in the pillow once the mold is removed.

In certain embodiments an opening in the entertainment system mounting bracket is aligned with the openings in the outer cover and the pillow . As discussed above the off set mounting posts may be longer than the height or thickness of the signal source . In such arrangements when the mounting posts are fastened to the entertainment system mounting bracket a cavity is formed between the signal source and the entertainment system mounting bracket . In some embodiments this cavity is in fluid communication with the airflow path defined through the apertures A and B allowing heated air to escape from the cavity through the aperture.

In some embodiments the openings in the entertainment system mounting bracket the outer cover and the pillow may be offset from each other. In further embodiments the airflow path is defined within a conduit e.g. a tube extending through the openings.

In various embodiments as discussed above a plurality of apertures are provided to enhance cooling by creating cross flow past heat generating or past heat sensitive components. As shown in in some configurations the apertures may extend through opposing sides of the outer cover the pillow and the entertainment system mounting bracket of the headrest . In some embodiments a cavity is formed between the signal source and the entertainment system mounting bracket . The cavity may be in fluid communication with the plurality of apertures thereby allowing a cross flow of air through the headrest . While in some cases a natural cross flow is sufficient to remove unwanted heat from the headrest various embodiments provide further enhanced cooling by the structures discussed above. For example in one embodiment a cooling fan is coupled with the cooling system mounts as described above.

In certain embodiments the housing A is sized to be inserted between the cooling system mounts as described above with respect to . In some embodiments the width of the housing A is slightly less than the distance between the mounts and the thickness of the housing is slightly less than the width of the elongated slots of the mounts thereby ensuring a snug fit of the housing within the mounts. In some embodiments the width of the housing A is between about 25 millimeters and about 60 millimeters and the thickness is between about 5 millimeters and 15 millimeters. In one embodiment the width of the housing A is about 40 millimeters and the thickness is about 10.5 millimeters. As shown in in some embodiments the housing A may be substantially square. In one such embodiment the width and height of the housing A are each about 40 millimeters and the thickness is about 10.5 millimeters.

In some embodiments the housing A comprises a plurality of openings G H. The openings G may provide an alternative means of mounting the cooling fan to the component mounting frame . In some configurations fasteners are inserted through the openings G to secure the housing A to a portion of the component mounting frame . In some embodiments the openings G H reduce the weight of the housing A without compromising the structural integrity of the housing. The openings G H may allow venting in addition to that provided by other openings F of the housing A.

The blades B may meet at a common junction not shown . In some embodiments the junction is coupled with the central portion D of the housing A in a manner that allows rotation. In the embodiment depicted in the axis of rotation is about a line extending perpendicularly through a plane defined by the perimeter portion C. In some configurations the blades D rotate clockwise about the axis and in others the blades rotate counter clockwise.

In some configurations it is desirable that the housing A and blades B be substantially rigid and lightweight. The housing A and the blades B may comprise any suitable material such as plastic.

In certain embodiments the cooling fan comprises a lead I for coupling with a power source not shown . In some embodiments the power source operates between about 9.5 Volts and about 15 Volts. The power source provides a direct current in some configurations. The cooling fan can be powered by the car battery. In some embodiments a battery dedicated to the headrest entertainment assembly powers the cooling fan .

The cooling fan can be oriented or configured to force a cooling fluid e.g. air into the cavity to enhance convective cooling of heat generating or heat sensitive components located therein. The cooling fan can be oriented or configured to draw a cooling fluid e.g. air out of the cavity to enhance convective cooling. Also a plurality of fans can be used e.g. one to force air into an aperture and another to draw air out through another opening enhancing cooling.

The openings can also be used in combination with other venting structures such as the venting structures discussed above. This arrangement permits cross flow of air and allows hot air rising within the cavity to escape therefrom. In another embodiment the openings and the venting structure are combined with one or more fans.

As discussed above further enhancement of the cooling system can be incorporated into one or more support structures located inside the cavity . For example the slots and apertures and are configured to permit air to move away from components that may be heat generators or heat sensitive e.g. the monitor or the signal source . The slots can be aligned with the apertures to enhance this movement away from such components and into the stream of flow created by the at least one aperture .

Additional cooling can be achieved forward of the entertainment system . For example in one embodiment at least one component of the mounting system includes perforations or a plurality of small holes through which the movement of hot air can be enhanced. This arrangement fosters additional convective cooling on the forward side of the signal source in the illustrated embodiment.

Various structures have been discussed above that facilitate the efficient removal of heat from the headrest entertainment assembly . Efficient removal of heat is facilitated in some embodiments by providing enhanced flow within the headrest e.g. in the entertainment system mounting cavity . In the figures structures that enhance cooling e.g. by heat transfer by convection are further illustrates with arrows indicating airflow. Although arrowheads generally indicate the direction of airflow e.g. from the tail of the arrow to the head some structures permit airflow to be directed toward the head or toward the tail of the arrow shown.

With reference to and an arrow indicates airflow through the aperture or apertures A B . In one arrangement the airflow indicated by the arrow is through the aperture into the cavity . In some applications where relatively little heat is generated or the electronics housed in the headrest are resistant to heat induced failure such flow may be sufficient to cool the components. In other embodiments the cooling fan is mounted to the cooling system mounts such that it is adjacent to the aperture . In this arrangement greater amounts of airflow can be directed into the cavity as indicated by the arrow . An arrow indicates that airflow also can escape from or be forced out of the cavity through another aperture or set of apertures B A which can be located on an opposite side of the headrest . This advantageously creates cross flow which is a greater amount of airflow than would be provided through the cavity in the absence of the aperture or another venting structure as described herein.

In most embodiments cross flow is enhanced by providing a plurality of pathways for airflow into and out of the cavity . In the embodiment of two apertures are provided to enhance cross flow through the cavity . In another embodiment the venting structures are a second airflow pathway enabling air to escape from the headrest permitting a greater amount of airflow through the headrest. illustrate that cross flow is a broad term that includes the positioning of multiple venting structure or apertures on sides of the headrest that are not directly across from each other. Cross flow enhancing arrangements can be provided by providing at least two venting structures on any combination of the side the top or the bottom of the headrest . In some embodiments a plurality of venting structure are provided on the same side of the headrest e.g. one adjacent the fan and one spaced therefrom.

As discussed above the venting structures are particularly beneficial in providing for egress of heat by convection from the cavity because hot air will rise toward the top of the cavity. One system that provides particularly rapid cooling of the cavity incorporates a plurality of apertures formed on surfaces of the headrest and the venting structure on a top surface of the assembly e.g. on the aperture cover .

In some applications the assembly includes a heat management system that incorporates external venting structures e.g. at least one of the aperture s and the venting structure and one or more internal structure configured to enhance heat transfer away from at least one heat generating component. For example as discussed above the heat management system can include heat transfer enhancing structures formed on electronic components or housings therefore such as the apertures formed in the monitor assembly . The heat management system also can include heat transfer enhancing structures formed on structures that are partly or occasionally exposed to the external ambient such as the slots formed in the component mounting frame . The heat management system also can include heat transfer enhancing structures formed on structures that are enclosed in or at least substantially entirely enclosed in the cavity e.g. the holes formed in the entertainment system mounting bracket .

By combining the venting structures and other heat transfer enhancing structures more electronic devices can be packed into the confined space of the headrest whereby greater functionality and performance is provided to the assembly .

The structures discussed herein for efficiently removing heat from the headrest entertainment assembly provide several advantages. For example by providing sufficient cooling multiple components can be mounted within the cavity while maintaining levels of heat that are acceptable to the passenger. Also the level of heat in the cavity is kept at an acceptable level to reduce component failure due to excessive heating. These and other features make the devices disclosed and claimed herein particularly advantageous.

As discussed above the headrest entertainment assembly also includes a mounting system that facilitates installation of the entertainment system in the entertainment system mounting cavity of the headrest .

In one arrangement the mounting system includes one or more e.g. two seat posts a pillow mounting bracket an entertainment system mounting bracket and an entertainment system mounting feature . In one arrangement as discussed above the entertainment system mounting bracket is perforated e.g. with the plurality of small holes formed therein.

In one arrangement the entertainment system mounting feature comprises a plurality of posts e.g. four posts which extend through corresponding apertures in the entertainment system mounting bracket . The posts can be threaded to facilitate fastening of the perforated entertainment system mounting bracket to the pillow mounting bracket . In one arrangement the pillow mounting bracket includes a recess which may be a substantially U shaped recess formed on an upper side of the pillow mounting bracket. To give the headrest a more solid feel a spacer member may be positioned between the pillow and the entertainment system mounting bracket .

Further features of the pillow mounting bracket increase the strength of the headrest entertainment assembly particularly of the headrest . In one embodiment as shown in the pillow mounting bracket includes a first plate like portion A and a second plate like portion B. To provide additional strength to the pillow mounting bracket at least one of the plate like portions A B is provided with one or more reinforcing members to increase the strength of the portion of the plate like portions A B that resides between the posts . In one arrangement the reinforcing member comprises an elongated depression or channel formed in at least one of the plate like portions A B. The depression or channel increases the resistance of the plate like portion to bending or creasing along a plane parallel to the posts in the event of a collision. This arrangement provides other advantages. For example it can permit other components to be less bulky. For example a thinner walled post could be used. As discussed below providing a thinner walled post increases clearance for routing cables which makes assembly of the headrest entertainment assembly much easier.

In one technique thereafter the entertainment system mounting bracket is coupled with the pillow mounting bracket in the cavity . illustrate that after the entertainment system mounting bracket is coupled with the pillow mounting bracket the pillow mounting bracket is not able to be separated from the portion of the headrest including the pillow . This is one technique for assembling the mounting system to the portion of the headrest including the pillow . In one embodiment the entertainment system mounting bracket includes a passage for routing cables from the entertainment system as discussed below.

In some embodiments techniques for quickly and efficiently assembling the headrest entertainment assembly involve routing signal cables through the mounting system . In particular one advantageous technique routes signal cables through one or more mount posts .

Further techniques for assembling the headrest entertainment assembly are discussed above. In particular the monitor assembly can be coupled with the frame as discussed above in connection with . Thereafter the monitor can be tilted to an installation position such as is shown in . Thereafter fasteners and the motion limiter can be applied to couple the frame to the mounting system .

In the illustrated embodiment one branch of a first electrical line and one branch of a second electrical line extend from the tube which in some embodiments is a heat shrink tube. In certain embodiments the first electrical line comprises a fuse and an interlocking connector configured to couple with the noise suppressor . In certain embodiments the second electrical line comprises an interlocking connector configured to couple with the noise suppressor . The noise suppressor can be coupled with the power source .

With reference to in some embodiments each adapter connector includes a coupling interface for coupling with an entertainment system connector . In certain advantageous embodiments the coupling interface includes any suitable interface such as a pin sheath or a plug socket interface for creating a mechanical and electrical connection between an adapter connector and an entertainment system connector . In the illustrated embodiment the coupling interface of the adapter connector comprises seven pins for coupling with an entertainment system connector having seven sheaths.

As described in further detail below in certain embodiments the adapter allows entertainment systems to be interconnected rapidly and efficiently. In some advantageous embodiments the adapter couples an output of a first entertainment system with an input of a second entertainment system and couples an output of the second entertainment system with an input of the first entertainment system . In many embodiments the entertainment system connectors of the entertainment systems have the same configuration and the first branch or the second branch of the adapter can be coupled with either the first or second entertainment system . Accordingly the first and second adapter branches can be interchangeable which can greatly facilitate installation of multiple entertainment systems . Additionally the adapter can couple multiple entertainment systems with a power source via a single set of electrical lines which can also facilitate installation.

As schematically illustrated in in certain embodiments the entertainment system comprises the signal source and the monitor . The signal source is capable of producing a signal at least a portion of which is displayable on the monitor . In some embodiments the signal source is a device that reads a form of media and produces a signal at least partially displayable on the monitor . For example the signal source can be a DVD player a photo card reader or an MP3 player.

In some configurations the entertainment system comprises an output for communicating the signal produced by the signal source to a device other than the monitor . For example via the output of one entertainment system the signal from the signal source can be communicated to a separate entertainment system . In some embodiments the monitor of the entertainment system comprises the output . In other embodiments the signal source of the entertainment system comprises the output . In still other embodiments a pin plug or other coupling device of the entertainment system connector comprises the output .

In some configurations the entertainment system comprises an input for receiving a signal. In some arrangements the signal received via the input of one entertainment system is generated by the signal source of a separate entertainment system . In some embodiments the monitor of the entertainment system comprises the input . In other embodiments the signal source of the entertainment system comprises the input . In still other embodiments a pin plug or other coupling device of the entertainment system connector comprises the input . Accordingly in some embodiments a single connector comprises the input and the output of the entertainment system .

In certain embodiments the monitor of the entertainment system is operable in more than one state. In some embodiments the monitor displays at least a portion of a signal communicated via the output when in one state and displays at least a portion of a signal received via the input when in another state. For example in some preferred embodiments the video system comprises two entertainment systems generating separate signals. In a first state the monitor of the first entertainment system displays at least a portion of a first signal generated by the first signal source that is communicated via the output and in a second state the monitor displays at least a portion of a second signal generated by the second system and obtained via the input . In some embodiments the entertainment system comprises multiple inputs and or multiple outputs . In certain of such embodiments the monitor can operate in multiple states displaying the signal associated with each input or output of the entertainment system in at least one separate state.

In some embodiments the entertainment system comprises one or more transmitters for delivering audio information. In certain preferred embodiments the transmitter operates at infrared frequencies. In other embodiments the transmitter operates at radio frequencies. In some embodiments the video system comprises two entertainment systems each one comprising a transmitter . In certain of such embodiments the first entertainment system is configured to generate a first video signal and a first audio signal to deliver at least a portion of the first video signal via the first output to deliver at least a portion of the first audio signal via the first transmitter and or to receive at least a portion of a second video signal via the first input . In certain embodiments the second entertainment system is configured to generate the second video signal and a second audio signal to deliver at least a portion of the second video signal via the second output to deliver at least a portion of the second audio signal via the second transmitter preferably at a frequency different from that employed by the first transmitter and or to receive at least a portion of the first video signal via the second input . By selecting among operating states a user can access the first or second video signal via the monitor of either system . The user can also select the first or second audio signal via a receiver such as a radio within the vehicle or a personal headset by tuning to the transmitted frequency.

In certain embodiments signals are communicated from and or delivered to the entertainment system via the entertainment system cable . The entertainment system cable can comprise one or more communication lines such as for example electrical wires optical fibers and or any other suitable lines for communicating information. In certain embodiments the input and the output of the entertainment system are each coupled with a separate communication line . Accordingly in some embodiments the entertainment system cable comprises one communication line dedicated to the input and another communication line dedicated to the output of the entertainment system . In other embodiments the entertainment system cable comprises a separate communication line for each of multiple inputs and multiple outputs of the entertainment system .

In some embodiments the entertainment system cable comprises one or more electrical lines for delivering power to the entertainment system . The electrical lines can comprise electrical wires or any other suitable lines for transmitting power. The entertainment system cable can also include one or more electrical lines for electrically grounding the entertainment system . For example in some configurations the entertainment system cable comprises one electrical line for coupling the system with a ground of the power source and comprises another electrical line providing a common reference or common ground for the entertainment systems .

As illustrated in in certain embodiments the entertainment system connector comprises a coupling interface . The coupling interface can include any suitable interface such as a pin sheath or a plug socket interface for creating a connection with a coupling interface of an adapter connector . The connection can be a mechanical connection a friction fit or some other suitable connection. In some embodiments the coupling interface comprises a plurality of couplers which are sheaths in the illustrated embodiment. In certain arrangements a separate coupler or sheath is coupled with each communication line or electrical line of the entertainment system cable . For example in the illustrated embodiment one sheath is coupled with a communication line dedicated to the output of the entertainment system and another sheath is coupled with a communication line dedicated to the input of the embodiment system . In some preferred configurations each sheath is sized to contact an outer surface of a pin as described below.

In certain embodiments the entertainment system connector is sized and configured to extend through the post of the headrest . As described above the inner cross sectional size e.g. diameter of a hollow passage extending through the post can be increased to allow the passage therethrough of a larger entertainment system connector comprising a greater number of sheaths . In some situations this can be accomplished by increasing the size e.g. the inner and outer diameter of the posts . In other situations the wall thickness of the posts can be decreased. In the embodiment illustrated in the entertainment system connector comprises seven sheaths . Other embodiments can comprise more or fewer sheaths .

With continued reference to in certain embodiments an adapter connector comprises a coupling interface having a plurality of couplers which are pins in the illustrated embodiment that are configured to cooperate with the sheaths . As noted above arrangements other than pin sheath or plug socket interfaces are possible for the coupling interfaces . In the illustrated embodiment each of the couplers or pins is sized and dimensioned to fit snugly within a corresponding sheath . In preferred embodiments at least a portion of each pin and each sheath is capable of conducting electrical signals. The conducting portions of the pins and sheaths preferably contact one another when the entertainment system connector and adapter connector are coupled.

In other embodiments the entertainment system connector comprises pins and the adapter connector comprises sheaths . In still other embodiments each connector comprises a combination of pins and sheaths . In some configurations the connectors comprise complementary connection interface members configured to transmit optical signals rather than electrical signals.

In certain embodiments the connector comprises a sleeve . In some embodiments the pins are housed within the sleeve and do not extend beyond a rim also shown in of the sleeve . Accordingly in some embodiments the sleeve can protect the pins from being bent or otherwise damaged prior to coupling with the sheaths of the connector . In many embodiments the connector is sized and configured to fit snugly within the sleeve when coupled with the connector .

In certain embodiments the entertainment system connector and adapter connecter can be joined only when the sheaths and the pins are properly aligned. As shown in the illustrated embodiment the adapter connector can comprise a ridge that extends inwardly from the sleeve of the connector . In certain embodiments the ridge is sized and shaped to fit in a channel of the entertainment system connector . As illustrated in the adapter connector can comprise an indicator such as an imprinted or painted arrow on an outer surface thereof for demonstrating the location of the ridge on an inner surface thereof. In many embodiments the indicator permits proper connection of the entertainment system connector and the adapter connector without inspection of the inner surface of the adapter connector thereby facilitating the connection process.

As schematically illustrated in in certain embodiments the adapter connectors are coupled with one or more primary adapter cables . The primary adapter cables can comprise communication lines electrical lines and or branches thereof. As discussed below in some embodiments one end of one branch of a communication line is coupled with one pin of an adapter connector and one end of another branch of the communication line is coupled with one pin of another adapter connector . Similarly one end of one branch of an electrical line can be coupled with one pin of an adapter connector and one end of another branch of the electrical line can be coupled with one pin of another adapter connector .

In certain preferred embodiments the adapter comprises two adapter connectors . In some configurations each adapter connector comprises five or more pins . In preferred embodiments each adapter connector comprises the same configuration of pins . In the illustrated embodiment one end of one branch of an electrical line is coupled with the pin of a first adapter connector and one end of another branch of the electrical line is coupled with the pin of a second adapter connector . The electrical line thereby couples both pins . Similarly an electrical line couples both pins and another electrical line couples both pins . Accordingly the two adapter connectors are interchangeable with respect to the pins of each connector. As used herein the term interchangeable is a broad term used in its ordinary sense and includes without limitation the ability to use one connector in place of another connector.

In the illustrated embodiment one communication line couples the pin of the first adapter connector with the pin of the second adapter connector . Similarly a second communication line couples the pin of the first adapter connector with the pin of the second adapter connector . Accordingly the two adapter connectors are interchangeable with respect to the pins and

Advantageously the inverted configuration of the pins of the adapters facilitates the coupling of inputs and outputs of entertainment systems . In certain embodiments the video system comprises two entertainment systems having substantially similar entertainment system connectors . Each entertainment system connector has the same configuration of sheaths i.e. for each connector the sheath is coupled with the output of the entertainment system and the sheath is coupled with the input of the entertainment system see e.g. . Direct electrical connection of the adapter with the two entertainment system connectors effectively couples the input of one entertainment system with the output of the other entertainment system and vice versa.

In some embodiments the adapter comprises adapter connectors each having seven pins . In certain of such embodiments the adapter connectors are interchangeable. Certain of such embodiments resemble the illustrated five pin adapter described above but comprise two additional communication lines running between the adapter connectors . In certain embodiments the seven pin adapter is used in a video system comprising two entertainment systems each having two inputs and two outputs . The additional communication lines can allow coupling of a second output of the first entertainment system with a second input of the second entertainment system and allow coupling of a second input of the first entertainment system with a second output of the second entertainment system .

The interchangeable nature of the adapter connectors can advantageously reduce the time required to install video systems as no time is lost identifying which adapter connector corresponds with the entertainment system connector of a given entertainment system . Furthermore interchangeable adapter connectors can reduce the risk of improper installation which in addition to increasing the overall installation time of a video system could ultimately damage the video system . Additionally the adapter connectors can allow interoperability among monitors of different makes and models by providing a standard interface for coupling with the input and output of any monitor .

The use of switchless adapters to route signals from one entertainment system to another can also provide advantages over the use of a separate signal source selection unit such as a device that accepts signals from entertainment systems DVD players video game consoles and or other signal sources and can allow a user to select among the various signals received by the unit. Signal source selection units can be expensive. Furthermore such units can be costly to install especially in the aftermarket where vehicles may not be configured to house signal source selection units. Additionally some vehicles lack the required space for signal source selection units or the units take up more space than desired by vehicle owners. The installation of such units can also be time consuming. The use of adapters can reduce or eliminate each of these problems.

With continued reference to in certain embodiments the secondary adapter cable comprises an additional branch of the electrical line and an additional branch of the electrical line . In some embodiments the electrical lines and are coupled with the power source . The power source can be an alternating current or direct current source. In some embodiments the power source comprises the power source of a vehicle. In other embodiments the power source is dedicated to the video system . In some embodiments the electrical line is connected to the ground of the power source . In other embodiments the electrical line is connected to some other suitable ground.

As illustrated in in certain embodiments the electrical lines and are coupled with the noise suppressor . In some embodiments the noise suppressor comprises an input power lead an input ground lead an input accessory lead an output power lead and an output ground lead . In some embodiments the electrical line is coupled with the output power lead and the electrical line is coupled with the output ground lead . In some embodiments the each of the leads comprises a first interlocking connector and each of the lines comprises a second interlocking connector . The first and second interlocking connectors can be configured to engage one another by friction fit or by some other suitable method. In some embodiments the interlocking connectors are coupled via a fastener such as a clip or a screw.

In some embodiments the noise suppressor is coupled with the power source of a vehicle. The input power lead can be coupled with a power line of the vehicle the input ground lead can be grounded in a suitable manner and the input accessory lead can be coupled with the accessory power line of the vehicle. In many embodiments the noise suppressor filters and or reduces hum from the engine power line thereby providing a smoother waveform to the output power lead than is received from the input power lead .

The input accessory lead can serve a variety of functions. In one preferred embodiment the input accessory lead signals that a vehicle is being shut off tripping circuitry within the noise suppressor to reduce power output to the entertainment systems . In some embodiments the reduced power output causes one or more DVD players of the entertainment systems to store playback information to memory prior to shutting down. In some embodiments the input accessory lead comprises a fuse .

With reference again to in some embodiments the electrical line couples pins of the adapter . Accordingly in some preferred embodiments the electrical line provides a common ground among entertainment systems coupled to the adapter . In other embodiments each entertainment system is grounded separately.

In some embodiments one or more secondary adapter cables can comprise one or more branches of communication lines . The communication lines thus can be coupled at one end with a signal source such as for example a signal source selection unit a DVD player a television tuner etc. Branches of the one or more communication lines can be routed through the primary adapter cables and coupled with the adapter connectors . The entertainment systems can communicate with the communication lines thereby providing additional viewing and or listening options to users of the systems .

In certain embodiments the junction comprises a seal for joining the primary adapter cables and the secondary adapter cable . In some embodiments the seal comprises a molded dielectric material such as polyvinylchloride that is heat sealed around the primary cables and the secondary cable .

As illustrated in in some embodiments a retainer or retention device secures the entertainment system connector see e.g. and the adapter connector see e.g. in a coupled configuration. In certain embodiments the retention device is removable providing ready access to the connectors . In some embodiments the retention device comprises a first housing member and a second housing member that substantially surround the entertainment system connector and the adapter connector when the connectors are coupled. In some embodiments the retention device substantially encloses and or encapsulates the connectors . Accordingly in some instances the retention device can protect the connectors from for example dust accumulation humidity and or spilled liquids.

In some embodiments as illustrated an exterior surface of the retention device is generally cylindrical when the device is closed. The exterior surface can assume any shape although generally cylindrical configurations are preferred for use with circularly symmetric cables and or circularly symmetric connectors . In some embodiments the retention device comprises a single piece of material such as molded plastic. In other embodiments two or more pieces can be joined to form the device .

In certain embodiments the first and second housing members cooperate to form a cavity see e.g. . In many embodiments the cavity is sized and configured to accept the connectors . In some embodiments the cavity is sized and configured to only accept the connectors when the connectors are coupled with each other. For example the cavity can comprise an axial length that is substantially equal to the axial length of the connectors in a coupled configuration.

In preferred embodiments the retention device comprises one or more releasable locks or fasteners that allow the device to be selectively opened and closed. In the illustrated embodiment the device comprises two fasteners . Each fastener comprises a clip extension and a clip aperture that cooperate to allow the selective opening and closing of the device as more fully described below. In various embodiments the fastener can comprise a clip clasp clamp magnet hook hook and pile fabric or other suitable mechanism for maintaining the device in a closed state. In certain embodiments the fastener is integrally formed with the device and in other embodiments it is secured to or around the device .

In some arrangements the first housing member comprises one or more protrusions and the second housing member comprises one or more recesses . The recesses can be configured to accept the protrusions when the device is closed thereby encouraging alignment of the first and second housing members . In the illustrated embodiment the protrusions are substantially cylindrical with rounded edges. The recesses are also substantially cylindrical having a diameter slightly larger than that of the protrusions . The relative sizes of the protrusions and recesses can be altered to achieve a tighter or looser fit. A wide variety of arrangements are possible for the protrusions and recesses .

In the illustrated embodiment the protrusions and recesses are spaced away from the hinge . Additionally one protrusion and recess pair is located adjacent a proximal end of the device and another protrusion and recess pair is located adjacent a distal end of the device . As used herein the terms proximal and distal refer to spatial orientation with respect to the entertainment system . Other arrangements of protrusion and recess pairs are possible.

In some configurations the first housing member comprises one or more first extensions inward projections interference surfaces or ridges and the second housing member comprises one or more second extensions inward projections interference surfaces or ridges . In certain configurations the first and second ridges extend inward from a surface of the first and second housing members respectively. As illustrated in some configurations the first and second ridges extend inward along an entire length of an interior surface of the first and second housing members respectively. In certain configurations the first and second ridges are substantially C shaped as shown. In some embodiments the first and second ridges are substantially orthogonal to the surfaces of the housing members from which the ridges extend.

As illustrated in in some embodiments the cross section of the opening partially defined by the first and second ridges is noncircular. For example in certain cylindrical configurations the ridges and extend only along a partial length of a surface of the first and second housing members respectively. In certain of such configurations the opening defined by the ridges and when the device is closed has a measurement in one dimension equal to the diameter of the circular cross section of an interior surface of the closed device and a measurement in another dimension smaller than the cross sectional diameter of the interior surface . Various other opening configurations can be used although circular openings are preferred for use with circularly symmetric cables and circularly symmetric connectors.

With continued reference to in certain embodiments the clip extension comprises an arm portion and a tip portion . The tip portion can comprise a face and a ledge . In certain embodiments the face is angled such that when the device is being closed the clip aperture forces the tip portion inward toward the device . As a result the arm portion is bent giving rise to a restoring force that eventually seats the ledge under the clip aperture when the device is closed. A top surface of the ledge abuts a bottom surface of the clip aperture thereby retaining the device in a closed position. To open the device the tip portion is depressed toward the device until the top surface of the ledge no longer contacts the bottom surface of the clip aperture . In some instances an upward force is applied to the tip portion to encourage it through the clip aperture . In other instances the device is biased toward opening such that no upward force need be applied to the tip portion to encourage it through the clip aperture .

In certain embodiments the adapter connector comprises one or more extensions projections or interference surfaces that extend outward from a center of the connector . In the illustrated embodiment the adapter connector comprises two extensions . The extensions comprise distal and proximal faces respectively of the adapter connector . Each extension extends substantially perpendicularly from an axial center of the connector . In certain embodiments the entertainment system connector comprises one or more extensions that extend outward from a center of the connector . In the illustrated embodiment each extension and extends substantially perpendicularly from an axial center of the connector .

In some embodiments the opening formed by the ridges and when the device is closed is smaller in at least one dimension than the extension . In certain of such embodiments the opening formed by the ridges and is smaller in at least one dimension than the extension and or the opening formed by the ridges and is smaller in at least one dimension than the extension . In such configurations the ridges and can operate to prevent the separation of the coupled connectors . For example in certain embodiments as axial forces are applied to the cables in a manner that would separate the connectors the extension contacts one or more of the ridges and . Similarly the extension contacts one or more of the ridges and . Accordingly the ridges and cooperate with the extensions and to prevent the connectors from moving away from each other e.g. interference surfaces cooperate to prevent axial movement of the connectors relative to each other. In some embodiments additional interference surfaces cooperate with each other to prevent relative movement between the connectors . For example in some embodiments the ridges and cooperate with the extension to prevent the connector from moving axially with respect to the connector . In further embodiments one or more of the openings through which the cables can extend are smaller than the cables which further serves to prevent separation of the connectors .

In some embodiments the retention device comprises one or more surfaces or interference surfaces configured to prevent the connectors from moving laterally relative to each other. In the illustrated embodiment the device comprises interior surfaces and . In some embodiments the interior surfaces comprise one substantially continuous surface when the device is closed. In some embodiments the interior surfaces contact an exterior surface of the connector when the device is closed . In certain of such embodiments the interior surfaces cooperate with the exterior surface to substantially prevent the connector from moving in a transverse or lateral direction relative to the connector . For the illustrated case of a circularly symmetrical connector the transverse or lateral direction can be for example any radial direction. In certain embodiments contact between the interior surfaces and the exterior surface along an axial length of the connector maintains a longitudinal axis of the connector aligned with a longitudinal axis of the device and prevents radial movement of the connector relative to the connector . Similarly in some embodiments contact between interior surfaces and of the device and exterior surfaces of portions of the connector respectively maintains a longitudinal axis of the connector aligned with a longitudinal axis of the device and prevents radial movement of the connector relative to the connector .

In further embodiments the retention device can comprise interference surfaces such as the surfaces that prevent rotational movement of the connectors relative to each other such as by friction as described below . In many embodiments some interference surfaces of the device are configured to prevent or inhibit multiple forms of relative movement between the connectors .

In some embodiments an interior surface of the retention device is smaller than an exterior surface of one or more of the connectors . In such embodiments friction can arise between one or more of the connectors and the device when the device is closed thereby helping to secure or securing the connectors in a coupled configuration. In certain of such embodiments the interior surface of the device is coated with a high friction material is roughened or is etched thereby increasing the friction. Furthermore in such embodiments the retention device can be placed in tension when the device is closed thereby creating a bias towards being in an open configuration. As discussed above such a bias can aid in opening the device when the clip configuration of the illustrated embodiment is employed.

The retention device can provide various advantages over conventional methods such as the use of electrical tape for securing connectors to one another. As discussed above the retention device can apply normal and frictional forces to the connectors . These forces can often be stronger than the forces supplied by electrical tape thereby ensuring a more reliable coupling of the connectors. The use of a retention device also facilitates replacement of an entertainment system if needed. Whereas removing electrical tape can be time consuming removal of the retention device is relatively quick.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics of any embodiment described above may be combined in any suitable manner as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure in one or more embodiments.

Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of embodiments various features of the inventions are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that any claim require more features than are expressly recited in that claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in a combination of fewer than all features of any single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. This disclosure includes all permutations of the independent claims with their dependent claims.

