---

title: Capsule imaging devices, systems and methods for in vivo imaging applications
abstract: Novel capsule imaging devices, systems and methods are provided for in vivo imaging applications, such as for gastrointestinal applications. A swallowable video imaging device, such as a capsule, can be used with a light filter for in vivo illumination of a target tissue that has absorbed a previously administered biological probe. The target tissue can be distinguished in images transmitted from the video imaging device. Quantification of the signal intensity of fluorescence can be used to assess how progressed the target tissue may be. The target tissue can be therapeutically treated to shrink or kill the target tissue.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08900133&OS=08900133&RS=08900133
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 08900133
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060512
---
This non provisional patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 680 580 filed May 13 2005 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 742 199 filed Dec. 2 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. P30 DK 34987 and DK40247 both awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to in vivo imaging. More particularly the subject matter disclosed herein relates to capsule imaging devices systems and methods for in vivo imaging applications such as for gastrointestinal applications.

In the past it has been known to use swallowable electronic capsules to collect data and transmit the data to a receiver system. Such capsules are generally known as Heidelberg capsules and have been used in the intestines to measure things such as pH temperature and pressure. Other in vivo measuring systems that have been used are endoscopes which are long tubes that a patient swallows. Endoscopes are often used to provide images of the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract but since they typically are not very flexible and are not moved easily through small intestines conventional endoscopes do not provide views of the small intestines. Also endoscopes are uncomfortable may injure a patient and are complex to operate. Fiber optic endoscopes utilize a fiber optic waveguide to transmit a video signal from an area of interest to the electronics located outside of a patient s body. Video endoscopes place an electronic camera at an area of interest and transmit and store the images until after the test finishes.

Early detection of pre malignant lesions such as adenomatous polyps and malignant lesions is crucial in the prevention and early treatment of common gastrointestinal cancers. With the advent of fiberoptic endoscopes such as EGD and colonoscopy whose flexibility allows an endoscopist to traverse the duodenum and the colon lesions within the reach of the endoscope can now be detected albeit invasively. Major portions of the small intestine however remain inaccessible by the conventional endoscope. In addition fiberoptic endoscopy also has a small but significant risk of bleeding perforation and sedation associated cardiopulmonary incident.

Video capsule endoscopy is a minimally invasive procedure that involves swallowable camera capsules that can be used for imaging the gastrointestinal tract. Images from the video capsule can be wirelessly transmitted from the capsule to an electronic receiver outside of the body. An early example of such a video capsule is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 604 531. Such video capsules typically use white light for guidance and imaging within the gastrointestinal tract. Using conventional video capsules however the images generated can only indicate the presence of something for example on an interior wall along the gastrointestinal tract. The ability to determine information such as for example the clinical classification of polyps such as benign hyperplastic and lymphoid versus pre malignant adenomatous is extremely limited. Conventional video capsule endoscopy does not provide the possibility of tissue sampling and only anatomic and morphologic information can be extracted from white light imaging.

Molecular imaging utilizing probes activated by biomarkers associated with neoplastic lesions is emerging as a powerful tool to detect and distinguish pre malignant and malignant lesions. Such imaging involves certain molecular biomarkers such as some proteases being up regulated in neoplastic lesions. Probes activated by these biomarkers termed molecular beacons are becoming increasingly valuable tools for detecting cancerous lesions and differentiating benign and pre malignant polyps. This new technology utilizes special near infrared fluorescent NIRF imaging probes carrying non fluorescent enzyme substrates. These are essentially undetectable after systemic administration unless locally activated by enzymes associated with disease processes. Such probes are typically injected intravenously and in vivo detection of specific enzyme activity is achieved through imaging hardware capable of detecting near infrared light emissions. One such NIRF imaging probe used currently only in experimental animal models is based on Cathepsin B a proteolytic enzyme that is consistently overexpressed in adenomatous polyps and cancers. In mouse models these probes have been used on dissected gastrointestinal tissue and on anesthetized mice with modified fiberoptic endoscopy. The latter application still involves invasive endoscopic methods and if applied clinically would have limitations similar to conventional endoscopy.

Accordingly in light of the current technologies for video capsule endoscopy significant room for improvement in the art remains for improved capsule imaging devices systems and methods for non invasive or less invasive in vivo imaging applications such as for gastrointestinal applications. Improved capsule imaging devices that can distinguish and differentiate pre malignant and malignant lesions inflammatory lesions and which can differentiate lesions at regions of the gastrointestinal tract not accessible by conventional endoscopic techniques are exemplary of desirable improvements.

In accordance with this disclosure novel capsule imaging devices systems and methods are provided for in vivo imaging applications such as for gastrointestinal applications.

It is an object of the present disclosure therefore to provide novel capsule imaging devices systems and methods for in vivo imaging applications such as for gastrointestinal applications. This and other objects as may become apparent from the present disclosure are achieved at least in whole or in part by the subject matter described herein.

In accordance with the present disclosure novel capsule imaging devices systems and methods are provided for in vivo imaging applications such as for gastrointestinal applications. The devices systems and methods disclosed herein integrate video capsule endoscopy and molecular imaging technology to capitalize on the minimally invasive nature of video capsule endoscopy and to provide novel techniques to determine from in vivo imaging important information such as differentiation between benign pre malignant and malignant lesions. The devices systems and methods disclosed herein can have particular application for any in vivo imaging of any portion of a human or animal gastrointestinal tract and lumen or of organs or other tissue associated with a gastrointestinal tract.

With reference to video capsule endoscopy in accordance with the subject matter disclosed herein utilizes an imaging device that can be swallowed such as for example a video imaging capsule generally designated C. Any suitably configured sized or shaped video imaging device could be used in accordance with the present subject matter as it is not necessary for the video imaging device to be a capsule such as capsule C. As with conventional video capsule endoscopy capsule C can be swallowed through the mouth of a patient and pass through the gastrointestinal tract generally designated GI. As shown in gastrointestinal tract GI includes mouth esophagus stomach small intestine large intestine and rectum . Once ingested into mouth capsule C can travel through the complete digestive path gastrointestinal tract GI until capsule C exits gastrointestinal tract GI through rectum where capsule C can be captured. While inside gastrointestinal tract GI capsule C can capture images from within gastrointestinal tract GI at any location therein.

Once capsule C is swallowed images can be captured as motion video or as still images for example at a speed of two images per second. Captured images can be transmitted to a receiver such as receiver positioned outside of the body of the patient. Images received at receiver can be collected and recorded and passed to a computer such as computer where the images can be analyzed as a video or as still images. Images acquired are of excellent resolution and magnification and even allow visualization of individual villi. Prior to imaging with capsule C within gastrointestinal tract GI and in order to enable in vivo imaging in accordance with the present disclosure a biological probe BP is administered to the patient as shown in and as described later in detail. The term biological probe as used herein refers to any type of a probe compatible for use in biological systems including but not limited to use in vivo.

Any type of video imaging device or capsule can be used in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter with use of light as described herein. Video imaging capsules typically contain components therein such as for example an optical system including a camera a light source for providing illumination a transmitter for transmitting wirelessly images from the optical system and a power source. of the drawings illustrates video imaging capsule C as containing an optical system generally designated that can include a camera and a lens . A light source for providing illumination is shown for exemplary purposes only as an array of light emitting diodes LEDs that can be positioned around lens . The light source can though be any suitable type of light source such as a halogen light source or a laser light source. The light can be continuous in intensity pulsed or can be modulated for example by frequency or amplitude. An optical dome that can be transparent can be positioned to cover and protect lens and LEDs on an end of capsule C. As can be appreciated to those of skill in the art capsule C can as desired have other configurations for its optical system such as a configuration where camera and lens are positioned on or toward a side of capsule C with a side wall window instead of a dome at one or both ends of capsule C. A transmitter along with an antenna can wirelessly transmit images from capsule C and a power source can provide power to components within capsule C.

In accordance with the present subject matter a light filter can optionally be used for beneficial imaging carried out in association with an administered biological probe as described in detail further hereinbelow. The configuration of a light filter according to the present disclosure is not limited to any one particular shape or configuration as a light filter according to this disclosure can be of a variety of shapes and configurations such as for example the shapes and configurations described below. The light filter can be used in association with a light source as disclosed herein to provide monochromatic or substantially monochromatic near infrared light. As such the light filter can be a bandpass light filter adapted for use with a video imaging capsule as described hereinbelow. The terms light and light filter as used herein are not intended to be limited to light emitted filtered or received in only the visible light spectrum but rather the terms are inclusive of the entire electromagnetic radiation spectrum e.g. infrared near infrared ultraviolet ultrasound etc. unless otherwise specifically limited such as for example when light filters are disclosed that filter light at a particular wavelength range. In accordance with the present disclosure however no light filter is needed where for example the video imaging device is adapted for imaging using light of predetermined wavelength ranges or wavelengths. To facilitate this the light source can be adapted for radiating light of predetermined wavelength ranges or wavelengths. For example the LEDs could be suitably coated or otherwise adapted for emitting desired colors or a color of light by the structures used to make the LEDs such as by doping or using selected diode materials known or discovered to produce light at certain wavelengths or ranges.

A desired wavelength range for the excitation light can be for example and without limitation light of near infrared wavelengths for example from about 600 nm to about 1000 nm as is known for use in existing optical imaging applications. When the excitation light encounters a near infrared fluorescent molecule of a biological probe as described further herein the excitation light is absorbed by the fluorescent molecule. The fluorescent molecule then emits light that can have detectably different properties from the properties of the excitation light. Emission filter EmF can also be selected and used for filtering of light emitted from the biological probe such that only light of a predetermined wavelength range is allowed to pass through emission filter EmF. As with the excitation filter ExF emission filter EmF can be selected and used to filter light such that only light of a predetermined wavelength range is allowed passage therethrough resulting in emission light within a predetermined wavelength range that can be desirably different from the wavelength range of the excitation light. For example and without limitation a desired wavelength range for excitation light can also be from about 600 nm to about 1000 nm. Light filter F can be used in association with capsule C such that excitation filter ExF filters light L emitted from LEDs and going to target T while emission filter EmF filters light L returning from target T to camera which may or may not include lens . Differences in the wavelengths of light traveling in a direction through excitation filter ExF and in an opposite direction through emission filter EmF can facilitate providing a contrast to the imaging produced by a video imaging capsule.

As discussed in detail below target T can comprise targeted tissue within a gastrointestinal tract and the targeted tissue can comprise a previously administered biological probe that has been absorbed by target T. In some embodiments the probe is an activatable probe which can be activated by a component of target T. Light L passed through light filter F and to target T can then excite the absorbed and activated probe and can cause the probe to emit light L from target tissue T that can pass back through light filter F to camera . This can occur for example when excitation light within a desired or particular wavelength range contacts a fluorescent molecule of the absorbed and activated probe resulting in excitation of the fluorescent molecule and transmission by the molecule of emission light at a different wavelength than the excitation light that contacted the fluorescent molecule.

In accordance with another aspect light filter F can be as described above but be positioned within capsule C as illustrated for example in of the drawings. In this configuration light filter L can be a wafer that can be round and comprise at least an excitation filter ExF and can also comprise an emission filter EmF as described above and shown for example and without limitation in .

As shown in light filter F can be positioned as a single outer layer attached to and on the outside of dome . Light L can pass through and be filtered by light filter F. As shown in light filter F can be positioned as a single inner layer attached to and on the inside of dome . A single layer can be used either on an interior surface of capsule C such as inside dome as shown in or on an exterior surface of capsule C such as an exterior of dome as shown in . Where a single layer is used light filter F can comprise both an excitation filter ExF and an emission filter EmF just an excitation filter ExF or just an emission filter EmF.

As shown in light filter generally designated F can comprise a plurality of layers such as for example layers and as light filter F can be positioned on either side of dome such as for example attached to and on the outside of dome as shown. Dome can be coated with filter layers and which can be two different filters. For example layer could be an excitation filter and layer could be an emission filter. The two filters could be coated sequentially on top of each other or formed so as to create a single layer. For each filter layer and light is filtered only when it passes through the filter layer one in unidirectional way. Also each filter layer and can allow predetermined wavelengths of light to pass through in the one direction of filtering while preventing wavelengths of light not in the predetermined range that may try to pass through in the one filtering direction. The wavelength ranges can be different for filter layers and . For example where layer is an excitation filter light from a source inside the capsule can be filtered in one direction by and through filter layer to allow passage therethrough only of light with a predetermined and specific excitation wavelength. Similarly where layer is an emission filter light traveling from outside and toward the capsule can be filtered in an opposite direction by and through filter layer to allow passage therethrough only of light with a different predetermined and specific emission wavelength. It is also envisioned that light filters could be attached as layers on opposite sides of dome . In each of the configurations shown in B and C light filters F and F can be applied by any suitable techniques known now or in the future such as for example by spray coating dome .

As noted herein above imaging of tissue of interest i.e. target tissue can be enhanced using a biological probe comprising fluorescent molecules e.g. fluorochromes that can accumulate in and enhance visualization of the tissue of interest. The presently disclosed subject matter encompasses utilizing a biological probe to enhance visualization of tissue of interest as well as utilizing two or more biological probes either at the same time or sequentially whose optical properties can be distinguishable from those of the others. The presently disclosed subject matter therefore provides for the imaging of multiple events or targets simultaneously.

The term target tissue as used herein refers to not only a group of cells organized to perform a particular function as tissue is used in the traditional sense but also can individual cells organs and non cellular biological material associated with cells tissues and or organs. The contents of the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract are also included.

As can be appreciated by those of skill in the art a fluorochrome of a biological probe can include but is not limited to a fluorochrome a fluorophore a fluorochrome quencher molecule or any organic or inorganic dye. In some embodiments the fluorochromes can be red and near infrared fluorochromes NIRFs with absorption and emission maximum between 600 and 1300 nm. Preferred fluorochromes can have 1 high chemical and photostability 2 non toxicity 3 good biocompatibility biodegradability and excretability and 4 commercial viability and scalable production for large quantities i.e. gram and kilogram quantities required for in vivo and human use. Methods for measuring these parameters are known to one of skill in the art.

In some aspects of the present disclosure a fluorochrome can be specifically selected based on a substantial difference between its excitation and emission wavelengths. In these embodiments the fluorochrome can function as both an imaging and as a therapeutic agent. The energy difference between the excitation light and the emission light wavelengths can be released from the fluorochrome in the form of heat. As a biological probe is localized to target tissue of interest initially to visualize the target tissue the heat released will dissipate into the target tissue. A fluorochrome can be specifically selected to maximize the difference between the excitation light and the emission light wavelengths in order to maximize the heat generated and delivered to the target tissue thereby shrinking and even killing the target tissue with minimal or no damage to peripheral tissue. Thus in instances where the target tissue comprises a suspected cancer the biological probe can be utilized to identify and quantify the presence of cancerous tissue. In addition simultaneously or sequentially thereafter the probe can therapeutically treat the target by killing the cancerous tissue through the heat generated from fluorescence of the probe.

Fluorochromes that can be utilized with the presently disclosed subject matter include for example but are not limited to fluorescein isothiocyanate fluorescein dichlorotriazine and fluorinated analogs of fluorescein naphthofluorescein carboxylic acid and its succinimidyl ester carboxyrhodamine 6G pyridyloxazole derivatives Cy2 3 3.5 5 5.5 and 7 phycoerythrin phycoerythrin Cy conjugates fluorescent species of succinimidyl esters carboxylic acids isothiocyanates sulfonyl chlorides and dansyl chlorides including propionic acid succinimidyl esters and pentanoic acid succinimidyl esters succinimidyl esters of carboxytetramethylrhodamine rhodamine Red X succinimidyl ester Texas Red sulfonyl chloride Texas Red X succinimidyl ester Texas Red X sodium tetrafluorophenol ester Red X Texas Red dyes tetramethylrhodamine lissamine rhodamine B tetramethylrhodamine tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate naphthofluoresceins coumarin derivatives e.g. hydroxycoumarin aminocoumarin and methoxycoumarin pyrenes pyridyloxazole derivatives dapoxyl dyes Cascade Blue and Yellow dyes benzofuran isothiocyanates sodium tetrafluorophenols 4 4 difluoro 4 bora 3a 4a diaza s indacene Alexa fluors e.g. Alexa fluors 350 430 488 532 546 555 568 594 633 647 660 680 700 and 750 green fluorescent protein and yellow fluorescent protein. The peak excitation and emission light wavelengths will vary for these compounds and selection of a particular fluorochrome for a particular application can be made in part based on excitation and or emission light wavelengths.

Fluorochromes that can be used to construct biological probes are also described in U.S. Pat. Application No. 2002 0064794 PCT Publication No. WO 02 24815 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 800 995 6 027 709 PCT Publication No. WO 00 53678 PCT Publication No. WO 01 90253 EP 1273584 U.S. Patent Application No. 2002 0115862 EP 1065250 EP1211294 EP 1223197 PCT Publication No. WO 97 13810 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 136 612 5 268 486 5 569 587 and Lin et al. 2002 Bioconj. Chem. 13 605 610 the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments a biological probe can comprise a targeting moiety to facilitate accumulation of the probe at or within the target tissue. As such a targeting moiety can be any moiety that can be chemically linked to the biological probe of the present subject matter that enhances accumulation targeting binding recognition metabolic activity of the probe or enhances the efficacy of the probe in any manner. This can include but is not limited to membrane or transmembrane translocation signal sequences which could be derived from a number of sources including without limitation viruses and bacteria. Also included are moieties such as monoclonal antibodies or antigen binding antibody fragments such as single chain antibodies directed against a target specific marker a receptor binding polypeptide directed to a target specific receptor a receptor binding polysaccharide directed against a target specific receptor and other molecules that target internalizing receptors including but not limited to nerve growth factor oxytocin bombesin calcitonin arginine vasopressin angiotensin II atrial natriuretic peptide insulin glucagons and glucagon like peptides prolactin gonadotropin and various opioids. Non limiting examples of biological probes incorporating targeting moieties are disclosed in under Targeting probe as well as in Tung 2004 Biopolymers Pept. Sci. 76 391 403 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As previously noted in some embodiments the biological probe can be activatable where the probe in its native state has little or no fluorescence emission due to for example intramolecular quenching and detection of the probe is not possible until it has been activated or metabolized. For example the biological probe can become activated only after being targeted to a desired tissue due to a particular unique characteristic of the target tissue. In embodiments where the probe is activatable the probe can further comprise a targeting moiety to increase accumulation of the probe within the target tissue. A targeting moiety however can be unnecessary in some embodiments where the probe is activatable as the activation of the probe only within the target tissue may be sufficient to distinguish the target tissue from surrounding tissues.

Intramolecular fluorescence quenching by non activated probes can occur by any of various quenching mechanisms. Several mechanisms are known including resonance energy transfer between two fluorochromes. In this mechanism the emission spectrum of a first fluorochrome should be very similar to the excitation of a second fluorochrome which is in close proximity to the first fluorochrome. Efficiency of energy transfer is inversely proportional to r where r is the distance between the quenched chromophore and excited chromophore. Self quenching can also result from fluorochrome aggregation or excimer formation. This effect is strictly concentration dependent. Quenching also can result from a non polar to polar environmental change.

To achieve intramolecular quenching several strategies can be applied. They include 1 linking a second fluorochrome as an energy acceptor at a suitable distance from the first fluorochrome 2 linking fluorochromes to a backbone molecule at high density to induce self quenching and 3 linking polar fluorochromes in a vicinity of non polar structural elements of a backbone and or protective chains. Fluorescence is partially or fully recovered upon cleavage of the fluorochrome from neighboring fluorochromes and or from a particular region e.g. a non polar region of the probe.

In some embodiments the activatable biological probe can be activated through the catalytic activity of an enzyme expressed in the target tissue either uniquely or in significantly increased amounts as compared to non target tissue. For example in some embodiments the biological probe can be activated by a protease expressed by a target tissue.

Proteases represent a number of families of proteolytic enzymes that catalytically hydrolyze peptide bonds. A particular protease however will not cleave every peptide bond in a protein. Rather the proteases are specific to particular amino acid sequences that serve as recognition domains for each particular protease. Principal groups of proteases can include metalloproteases serine proteases cysteine proteases and aspartic proteases. Proteases in particular serine proteases are involved in a number of physiological processes such as blood coagulation fertilization inflammation hormone production the immune response and fibrinolysis.

Numerous disease states are caused by and can be characterized by alterations in the activity of specific proteases and their inhibitors. For example emphysema arthritis thrombosis cancer and some forms of hemophilia result from the lack of regulation of serine protease activities see for example Textbook of Biochemistry with Clinical Correlations John Wiley and Sons Inc. N.Y. 1993 .

Also for example proteases have been implicated in cancer metastasis. Increased synthesis of the protease urokinase has been correlated with an increased ability to metastasize in many cancers. Urokinase activates plasmin from plasminogen which is ubiquitously located in the extracellular space and its activation can cause the degradation of the proteins in the extracellular matrix through which the metastasizing tumor cells invade. Plasmin can also activate the collagenases thus promoting the degradation of the collagen in the basement membrane surrounding the capillaries and lymph system thereby allowing tumor cells to invade into the target tissues Dano et al. Adv. Cancer. Res. 44 139 1985 .

Cathepsin B and cathepsin H protease activities have also been used to detect submillimeter sized tumors using NIR fluorescent probes. In addition cathepsin D positive tumors have also been imaged in mouse models.

Similar to cathepsins matrix metalloproteinases MMPs are overexpressed in a number of tumors and in inflamed tissue. The level of their expression has been shown to be directly related to the tumor stage and metastasis. A number of different MMP inhibitors e.g. AG 3340 which act as cytostatic and anti angiogenic agents and some of which are in clinical trials have been developed.

As such measurement of changes in the activity of specific proteases is clinically significant in the detection and treatment of the underlying disease states. Thus biological probes can be targeted to tissue of interest based on the differentiating proteases which can specifically target and activate the probes.

In some embodiments of protease activated biological probes of the presently disclosed subject matter the probe can comprise a fluorochrome linked to an acceptor molecule by backbone. The backbone can be any biocompatible polymer. For example it can be a polypeptide a polysaccharide a nucleic acid or a synthetic polymer. Polypeptides useful as a backbone can include for example protease peptide recognition sequences e.g. poly lysine albumins and antibodies. The backbone also can be a synthetic polymer such as polyglycolic acid polylactic acid poly glycolic colactic acid polydioxanone polyvalerolactone poly .epsilon. caprolactone poly 3 hydroxybutyrate poly 3 hydroxyvalerate polytartronic acid and poly malonic acid . In some embodiments the backbone can be a peptide having an amino acid sequence that can be recognized and cleaved by a particular protease. The donor fluorochrome typically is excited by incident radiation at a particular wavelength which it then re emits at a different longer wavelength. When the fluorochrome is held in close proximity to the acceptor molecule the acceptor absorbs the light re emitted by the fluorophore thereby quenching the fluorescence signal of the donor molecule. The acceptor can be a fluorescent or non fluorescent molecule. If the acceptor is a fluorescent molecule the acceptor and the fluorochrome can be the same molecules that quench each other when in close proximity but can fluoresce when separated. Cleavage of the peptide joining the fluorochrome and the acceptor by the targeted protease results in separation of the two molecules release of the quenching effect and increase in fluorescence.

In some embodiments the biological probe further comprises protective molecules. Suitable protective molecules include polyethylene glycol methoxypolyethylene glycol methoxypolypropylene glycol copolymers of polyethylene glycol and methoxypolypropylene glycol dextran and polylactic polyglycolic acid. The protective molecules can be included in some embodiments to decrease the immunogenicity of the biological probe increase plasma half life and in some embodiments facilitate cell internalization.

Any amino acid sequence that comprises a recognition domain and can thus be recognized and cleaved by a protease is suitable for the protease binding site of the biological molecules of the presently disclosed subject matter. Known protease substrate sequences and peptide inhibitors of proteases possess amino acid sequences that are recognized by the specific protease they are cleaved by or that they inhibit. Thus known substrate and inhibitor sequences provide the basic sequences suitable for use in the protease recognition region. A number of proteases and their substrate sequences suitable for use as protease binding domains in the compositions of the presently disclosed subject matter are indicated in under Enzyme activatable probe and in Tung 2004 Biopolymers Pept. Sci. 76 391 403 and Mahmood and Weissleder 2003 Mol. Canc. Ther. 2 489 496 both of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties. One of skill will appreciate that this is not a complete list and that other protease substrates can be used as well.

The fluorochromes can be linked to the peptide backbone by any of a number of means well known to those of skill in the art. In one embodiment the fluorochrome can be linked directly from a reactive site on the fluorochrome to a reactive group on the peptide such as a terminal amino or carboxyl group or to a reactive group on an amino acid side chain such as a sulfur an amino or a carboxyl moiety. Many fluorochromes normally contain suitable reactive sites. Alternatively the fluorochromes can be derivatized to provide reactive sites for linkage to another molecule. Fluorochromes derivatized with functional groups for coupling to a second molecule are commercially available from a variety of sources. The derivatization can be by a simple substitution of a group on the fluorochrome itself or may be by conjugation to a linker.

Suitable linkers are well known to those of skill in the art and include but are not limited to straight or branched chain carbon linkers heterocyclic carbon linkers or peptide linkers. The linkers may be joined to the carboxyl and amino terminal amino acids through their side groups e.g. through a disulfide linkage to cysteine .

Particularly preferred linkers are capable of forming covalent bonds to amino groups carboxyl groups or sulfhydryl. Amino binding linkers include reactive groups such as carboxyl groups isocyanates isothiocyanates esters haloalkyls and the like. Carboxyl binding linkers are capable of forming include reactive groups such as various amines hydroxyls and the like. Finally sulfhydryl binding linkers include reactive groups such as sulfhydryl groups acrylates isothiocyanates isocyanates and the like. Particular exemplary linkers include sulfoMBS m maleimidobenzoyl N hydroxysulfosuccinimide ester for linking amino groups e.g. an amino group found on a lysine residue in the peptide with sulfhydryl groups found on the solid support or vice versa for linking sulfhydryl groups e.g. found on a cysteine residue of the peptide with amino groups found on the solid support. Other exemplary linkers can include EDC 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropryl carbodiimide and bis sulfosuccinimidyl suberate . Additional suitable linkers are well known to those of skill in the art.

In another embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter the biological probes can be manufactured into an acceptable pharmaceutical formulation.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles may be used in the composition or pharmaceutical formulation of the present subject matter. Included carriers adjuvants or and vehicles can include but are not limited to ion exchangers alumina aluminum stearate lecithin serum proteins such as albumin buffer substances such as phosphate glycine sorbic acid potassium sorbate TRIS tris hydroxymethyl amino methane partial glyceride mixtures of fatty acids water salts or electrolytes disodium hydrogen phosphate potassium hydrogen phosphate sodium chloride zinc salts colloidal silica magnesium trisilicate polyvinyl pyrrolidone cellulose based substances polyethylene glycol sodium carboxymethylcellulose polyacrylates waxes polyethylene polypropylene block polymers sugars such as glucose and suitable cryoprotectants.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the presently disclosed subject matter can be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation. This preparation can be prepared by those skilled in the art of such preparations according to techniques known in the art. The possible vehicles or solvents that can be used to make injectable preparations include water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution and D5W. In addition oils such as mono or diglycerides and fatty acids such as oleic acid and its derivatives can be used. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present subject matter can also be in the form of a salt.

The formulation of a probe can also include an antioxidant or some other chemical compound that can prevent or reduce the degradation of the baseline fluorescence or preserve the fluorescence properties including but not limited to quantum yield fluorescence lifetime and excitation and emission wavelengths. These antioxidants or other chemical compounds can include but are not limited to melatonin dithiothreitol dTT defroxamine DFX methionine DMSO and N acetyl cysteine.

The probes and pharmaceutical compositions of the presently disclosed subject matter can be administered orally parentally by inhalation topically rectally nasally buccally vaginally or via an implanted reservoir. The term parental administration includes intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intraarterial intraarticular intra synovial intrastemal intrathecal intraperitoneal intracisternal intrahepatic intralesional intracranial and intralymphatic injection or infusion techniques. The probes can also be administered via catheters or through a needle to any tissue.

The specific measurement of signal intensity by standard digital imaging techniques may or may not be incorporated to improve or confirm tissue differentiation and quantitation. For example differences in signal intensity emitted from an activated probe can be measured. The differences in signal intensity can be due to differences in concentration of accumulated probe or differences in activation of the probe. Accumulation or activation differences depending on the probe utilized can be indicative of the presence and severity of a particular disorder. For example it has been demonstrated that cathepsin B is expressed at a higher concentration in malignant lesions compared to premalignant lesions and the concentration in premalignant lesions is much higher than normal tissue. A probe specifically activated by cathepsin B will therefore be activated at greater quantities in malignant lesions than in premalignant lesions or normal tissue resulting in greater signal intensity from malignant lesions which can be quantitated. Because of the ability to quantify one can thus differentiate a cancerous lesion from a pre cancerous lesion. As another example imaging probes specific to inflammatory components are activated and emit at a measurable signal intensity based on how intense an inflammatory response is within a target tissue thereby permitting quantitation of inflammation within the target tissue. Quantitation of inflammation is for example applicable in the diagnosis and measurement of inflammatory bowel disease. Further probes designed to be activated by particular enzymes that are up regulated in inflammatory lesions and not pre malignant lesions would have the capability to distinguish inflammation from pre malignant lesions. As another example a probe specific for a particular microorganism see can be utilized to determine not only whether infection by the organism exists but also by quantifying the intensity of the probe signal determine the extent of infection. With the ability to quantitatively determine the extent of presence of a microorganism one can identify whether a GI disease is truly associated with the specific microorganism or not e.g. if detected at a high concentration yet found in the presence of a normal GI tract the microorganism is unlikely a pathogen .

Other GI tract lesions which can be diagnosed and treated include but are not limited to inflammation e.g. Crohn s disease and vascular lesions e.g. vascular ectasias .

Capsule endoscopy CE is a minimally invasive technology designed to image the GI tract such as the stomach and small intestine. The ability of the current white light CE imaging to discriminate different types of normal and diseased tissues e.g. different types of polyps is limited. Molecular imaging utilizing probes activated by neoplasm biomarkers such as protease activated Near Infrared Fluorescent NIRF probes is a potentially powerful tool to detect and distinguish premalignant and malignant lesions. In these Examples it was tested whether CE could be integrated with biological probes e.g. NIRF probes to detect premalignant lesions.

The following Examples provide illustrative embodiments. Certain aspects of the following Examples are disclosed in terms of techniques and procedures found or contemplated by the present inventors to work well in the practice of the embodiments. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill will appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently claimed subject matter.

To verify the efficacy of a Cathepsin B probe in distinguishing benign versus dysplastic adenoma four mouse models were employed with a NIRF imaging system as shown in . Apc mice spontaneously generate tumors and were used as a model for multiple adenomas in the small and large intestine. Aged GH TG mice develop benign polyps hyperplastic and lymphoid and were used as negative controls.

Mice exemplified as mouse in of appropriate age were anesthetized with 90 mg kg ketamine and 10 mg kg xylazine intraperitoneally and then administered a Cathepsin B probe PROSENSE 680 VisEN Medical Inc. Boston Mass. U.S.A. intravenously via tail vein injection at a dose of 2 nmol Cy 5.5 per animal. Animals were then sacrificed 24 hours after the Cathepsin B injection. The entire bowel of the Apc GH TG and wild type mice were removed for NIRF imaging.

NIRF imaging system was comprised of a light tight chamber equipped with a 150 watt halogen white light source an excitation filter system 610 650 nm a capsule imaging device C and an emission bandpass filter to detect fluorescence Cy 5.5 680 720 nm . Images were acquired over 3 minutes transmitted to a computer and analyzed using commercially available software.

Tissue samples were obtained from the entirety of each polyp and from adjacent size matched normal gastrointestinal mucosa in the polyp tumor mouse models. Tissue samples were likewise obtained from comparable regions of normal mucosa of wild type mice. Mean signal intensities SI were recorded and the target adenoma to background mucosa contrast TBC was calculated as follows TBC SI SI SI 100. A fluorescent ruler placed along the side of a sample served as a landmark reference for correlating images collected to specific regions of sample .

Polyps within the same animal were resected after completion of all experiments and separated into two groups based on TBC values with a higher TBC suggestive of adenomatous lesions. The polyps underwent further histopathology analysis to confirm the polyp types.

The molecular imaging of the polypoid lesions was further verified by a standard NIRF detecting device such as an IVIS Imaging System Xenogen Alameda Calif. U.S.A. . In addition positive and negative controls were imaged with CE using PROSENSE 680 samples added to buffer with and without trypsin on glass slides.

NIRF images of polypoid lesions in the intestine of Apc mice were readily visualized by CE molecular imaging. White light images obtained by CE through light tight chamber were similar in quality to those from human applications. NIRF images captured by CE revealed discrete light spots on the control slides only in solutions with trypsin.

The present data demonstrate successful detection of polypoid lesions with CE under near infrared light using a molecular probe specific for neoplastic intestinal lesions. Thus molecular imaging with capsule endoscopy as disclosed by the presently disclosed subject matter can provide a novel approach for detecting premalignant and malignant lesions in the GI tract.

To test the feasibility of detecting polypoid lesions in mouse GI tract by visible light CE VCE the following experiment was carried out under white light conditions. Equipped with two identical sensors the PILLCAM ESO Given Imaging Yoqneam Israel is a twin camera video capsule that transmits antegrade and retrograde images simultaneously. In light tight chamber shown in the PillCAM ESO was moved mechanically along the dissected murine intestine or stomach described in Example 1 with one sensor of the capsule focused on the dissected tissue to capture all polypoid lesions under white light. Images captured by the sensor facing the dissected GI tract were transmitted to the recorder via sensor arrays attached outside the light chamber. A sensor at the other end of capsule was turned off for this experiment. The video was reviewed as slowly as one frame at a time and the total number of polypoid lesions counted. The number of polypoid lesions obtained from the video was then compared with the number of polypoid lesions obtained by manual counting. The data from both counting methods matched indicating lesions can be identified by video imaging.

In light tight chamber a 150 watt halogen white light source coupled with excitation bandpass filter 610 650 nm was used for excitation and the commercially available PillCAM ESO with emission bandpass filter 680 720 nm was placed in front of one of the optical domes and used for emission detection. This approach served as a proof of principle without the necessity of modifying the optical dome directly. However in an alternative approach directly applicable to in vivo applications one of the two identical optical domes of PillCAM ESO can be engineered to have two unidirectional filters coated on the dome. One permits white light generated from an LED to exit and excite an activated Cathepsin B probe at 610 680 nm previously administered to mouse subjects and localized and activated in adenomatous polyps. The other filter permits NIRF at 680 720 nm emitted by the activated probe to enter and be captured by the capsule.

A Cathepsin B sensitive probe at 610 680 nm was first administered to mouse subjects wherein it then localized in and was activated by Cathepsin B expressed in adenomatous polyps. Treated tissue was then excised and imaged as disclosed below.

In light tight chamber the PillCAM ESO was moved mechanically in the same fashion as described in Example 2 with the optical dome end and interceding filter facing the dissected GI tract. Fluorescent images were collected and transmitted through a CMOS imager in the PILLCAM ESO to the recorder which was further analyzed as described in Example 2. The light sensor at the opposite end of capsule was turned off for this experiment. The sensitivity and specificity in detection of dysplastic adenoma from both an existing NIRF reflectance imaging system and the filter modified PillCAM ESO system was compared.

This study provides proof of principle that VCE imaging can be modified to permit testing of molecular probes that distinguish well characterized benign versus premalignant or malignant lesions in different mouse models.

As more and more NIRF and other imaging probes activated by enzymes associated with different disease processes become available it is envisioned that the subject matter disclosed herein can be used for detection and differentiation of inflammatory diseases such as Crohn s disease and other diseases versus malignant infiltrative processes such as lymphoma for example. Lesions associated with inflammatory processes ulcerations caused for example by Crohn s disease can also be distinguished from those induced by medications for example ulcerations caused by NSAIDs . This ability to differentiate drastically different disease processes is extremely advantageous and beneficial and provides an invaluable medical application and tool in further medical decision making.

It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation as the subject matter described herein is defined by the claims as set forth hereinafter.

