---

title: System and method for variably regulating order entry in an electronic trading system
abstract: A system and method are provided to intelligently limit the frequency at which automated or semi-automated trading tools move or re-price orders in an exchange order book. A tolerance may be input that limits when one or more orders in the exchange order book are moved from one price to another. The system and method assist in reducing the number of orders that are entered into the system which can lead to reduced exchange transaction fees, lost queue position, and reduce network bandwidth consumption.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07392219&OS=07392219&RS=07392219
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 07392219
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060503
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 403 333 filed Mar. 31 2003 entitled System and Method for Variably Regulating Order Entry in an Electronic Trading Environment the contents of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is directed towards electronic trading. Specifically the present invention is directed to variably regulating order entry in electronic trading related systems.

Trading methods have evolved from a manually intensive process to a technology enabled electronic platform. With the advent of electronic trading a user or trader can be in virtually direct contact with the market from practically anywhere in the world performing near real time transactions and without the need to make personal contact with a broker.

Electronic trading is generally based on a host exchange one or more computer networks and client devices. In general the host exchange includes one or more centralized computers to form the electronic heart. Its operations typically include maintaining an exchange order book that records unexecuted orders order matching providing price and order fill information and managing and updating a database that records such information. The host exchange is also equipped with an external interface that maintains uninterrupted contact to the client devices and possibly other trading related systems.

Using client devices traders link to the host exchange through one or more networks. A client device is a computer such as a personal computer laptop computer hand held computer and so forth that has network access. A network is a group of two or more computers or devices linked together which can be characterized by topology protocol and architecture. For example some market participants may link to the host through a direct network connection such as a T1 or ISDN. Some participants may link to the host exchange through direct network connections and through other common network components such as high speed servers routers and gateways. The Internet a well known collection of networks and gateways can be used to establish a connection between the client device and the host exchange. There are many different types of wired and wireless networks and combinations of network types known in the art that can link traders to the host exchange.

Sometimes on their machines traders use automated or semi automated trading tools that automatically or semi automatically send orders to the exchange. Such trading tools are usually provided to among other things facilitate fast and accurate order entry. For instance an automated tool might quickly calculate one or more order parameters such as order price or order quantity based on market conditions or some other reference condition and then automatically send an order with these parameters to an exchange for matching. And according to many existing and popular exchanges today orders are electronically entered in an exchange order book in the sequence in which they are entered into the market a first in first out or FIFO matching system . Based on this sequence and the availability of market quantity orders are filled with priority given to the first order entered then the second next order entered and so forth.

Using a conventional automated or semi automated tool however when the market conditions change the trading tool must usually calculate the one or more order parameters and then move or re price the order in the exchange order book to a new price associated with the new order parameter s . As a result the original order position in the exchange order book is lost and the trader might also be charged each time the order is moved or re priced in the market. Therefore for the same reason that automated or semi automated trading tools make desirable trading tools e.g. they can rapidly fire orders and or order changes into the market to capture market opportunities before the competition such tools can also make undesirable trading tools because among other things they can quickly consume network bandwidth and they can lead to a significant increase in exchange related fees.

It is therefore desirable to offer one or more tools that can regulate order entry in trading related tools and in particular regulate order entry in trading tools that have automated or semi automated order entry systems.

Sometimes a trader is willing to limit the moving or re pricing of orders in a market when changes in market conditions are rather insignificant to the trader. Not only can this maintain the trader s position in the order queue at the exchange it may reduce the number of exchange transactions and fees associated with moving or re pricing orders in the market and it may also reduce network bandwidth consumption. Therefore the preferred embodiments are provided to intelligently limit the frequency at which automated or semi automated trading tools move or re price orders in an exchange order book. According to the preferred embodiments a trader can program ranges which can each represent varying levels of acceptable movement in the market. Then if market conditions remain within an acceptable level according to one of the particular ranges the preferred embodiments refrain the trading tools from moving or re pricing the order s in the market. If the market conditions move outside of the acceptable level according to one of the particular ranges the preferred embodiments allow the trading tools to move or re price the order s in the market.

For ease of explanation the preferred embodiments are described in combination with an automated spread trading tool. Accordingly the preferred embodiments assist the automated spread trading tool by regulating the automatic moving or re pricing of orders in legs to achieve a desired spread. One such automated spread trading tool is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 137 979 filed on May 3 2002 and entitled System and Method for Performing Automatic Spread Trading the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Additionally the incorporated application describes re pricing of quotes which is a feature to limit the number of times a trading tool re quotes the legs. The preferred embodiments described herein build on that concept by allowing a user to input more than one range of inside and outside parameters to variably and more flexibly control order entry of trading systems and in particular automated and semi automated trading tools. Additionally the preferred embodiments allow a user to set one or more ranges for each leg of a spread. Using the teachings described herein the preferred embodiments can also accommodate any type of trading strategy.

Although the preferred embodiments are described in combination with an automated spread trading tool it should be understood that the preferred embodiments may be embodied in many different forms with many different types of trading tools. The trading tools which might receive great benefit from the preferred embodiments include those that use automated or semi automated order entry systems. Then the preferred embodiments can automatically regulate the frequency at which those automated or semi automated order entry systems move or re price orders in a market. Nonetheless trading tools which have non automated order entry systems might also receive a benefit from the preferred embodiments therefore the present invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. The preferred embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings.

Any of exchanges may represent for example the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange LIFFE the Chicago Board of Trade CBOT the New York Stock Exchange NYSE the Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME the Exchange Electronic Trading Xetra a German stock exchange or the European Exchange Eurex or any other exchange that participates in electronic trading. Exchanges might also refer to other facilities which include basic to more complex systems that automatically match incoming orders. These example exchanges and other exchanges are well known in the art. Communication protocols required for connectivity to one of these exchanges are also well known in the art.

Exchanges allow traders to log onto a market to trade tradeable objects. As used herein that the term tradeable objects refers simply to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of tradeable objects such as financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as finds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable object such as a class of tradeable objects.

An exchange can implement numerous types of order execution algorithms sometimes the type of algorithm depends on the tradeable object being traded. The preferred embodiments may be adapted by one skilled in the art to work with any particular order execution algorithm. Some example order execution algorithms include first in first out and pro rata algorithms. The first in first out FIFO algorithm used for some markets listed with Eurex for example gives priority to the first person to place an order. The pro rata algorithm used for some markets listed with LIFFE for example splits all orders for the same price. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of order execution algorithm.

Regardless of the type of order execution algorithm used each exchange preferably provides similar types of information to subscribing client devices . Market information may include data that represents just the inside market. The inside market is the lowest sell price best ask and the highest buy price best bid at a particular point in time. Market information may also include market depth. Market depth refers to quantities available at the inside market and can also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market. The quantity available at a given price level is usually provided by the host exchange in aggregate sums. In other words an exchange usually provides the total buy quantity and the total sell quantity available in the market at a particular price level in its data feed. The extent of the market depth available to a trader usually depends on the exchange. For instance some exchanges provide market depth for all or most price levels while some provide only quantities associated with the inside market and others may provide no market depth at all. Additionally exchanges can offer other types of market information such as the last traded price LTP the last traded quantity LTQ and order fill information.

Gateways are devices such as a mainframe superminicomputer minicomputer workstation microcomputer that connect network to networks so that market information can be successfully passed between client devices and exchanges . Gateways receive market information from exchanges and convert it to a form compatible with the protocols used by client devices using conversion techniques known in the art. Also as known by those skilled in the art gateways may have one or more servers to support the data feeds such as a price server for processing price information an order server for processing order information and a fill server for processing fill information. A trader at one of client devices can subscribe to price information order information and fill information for a particular market hosted at exchanges . Gateways also receive transaction information such as orders order changes queries etc. from client devices and forward that information to corresponding exchanges .

Client devices are devices that provide an interface for traders to trade at one or more markets listed with one some or all of exchanges . Some examples of client devices include a personal computer laptop computer hand held computer and so forth. Client devices according to the preferred embodiments include at least a processor and memory. The processor and memory which are both well known computer components are not shown in the Figure for sake of clarity. Preferably the processor has enough processing power to handle and process the various types of market information. Of course the more market information which is received and processed the more processing power is preferred. However any present day processor has enough capability to perform at least the most basic part of the present invention.

Memory may include computer readable medium. The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory or RAM random access memory . Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM and any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Client devices receive market information from any of exchanges . According to the preferred embodiments market information is displayed to the trader s on the visual output device or display device of client devices . The output device can be any type of display. For example the display could be a CRT based video display an LCD based or a gas plasma based flat panel display a display that shows three dimensional images or some other type of display. The present invention is not limited to any particular type of display.

Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to send orders to an exchange cancel orders in a market change orders in a market query an exchange and so on. To do so the trader may input various commands or signals into the client device for example by typing into a keyboard inputting commands through a mouse or inputting commands or signals through some other input device. Upon receiving one or more commands or signals client devices preferably generate transaction information. For instance a trader may click a mouse button to initiate an order to buy a tradeable object. Then transaction information would include an order to buy a particular quantity of the tradeable object at a particular price. There are many different types of messages and or order types that can be submitted all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated transaction information is sent from client device to host exchange over network s .

Alternatively the preferred embodiments may be a separate program from trading application but still stored in memory and executed on client device . In another alternative embodiment the preferred embodiments may be a program stored in memory and executed on a device other than client device . Example devices may include a gateway e.g. gateways or in or some other well known intermediary device.

The preferred embodiments are described as variably regulating the frequency at which an automated spread trading tool moves or re prices orders in an exchange order book. However as pointed out earlier the present invention is not limited for use with an automated spread trading tool but may be applied to any particular trading tool that has an order entry system where limiting the frequency at which orders are moved or re priced in the market may be beneficial. For example another type of trading tool that has an automated order entry system and may benefit using the preferred embodiments is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 284 584 filed on Oct. 31 2002 and entitled System and Method for Automated Trading the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. One skilled in the art may readily adapt the preferred embodiments to work with this type of automated trading tool for example or some other type of trading tool using the teachings described herein.

To assist in understanding how an automated spread trading tool might work a general description is provided below. However an automated spread trading tool and its functions are described in greater detail and may be referenced in an already incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 137 979 filed on May 3 2002 and entitled System and Method for Performing Automatic Spread Trading. 

According to one embodiment of an automated spread trading tool a trader can select two or more individual tradeable objects underlying the spread referred to herein as legs of the spread. The automatic spread trading tool preferably generates a spread data feed based on information in the legs and based on spread setting parameters which are configurable by a user. The spread data feed is communicated to a graphical user interface manager where it is displayed in a spread window and where the legs may also be displayed. At the terminal the user can enter orders in the spread window and the automated spread trading tool will automatically work the legs to achieve or attempt to achieve the spread. The spread is sometimes referred to herein as a synthetically created spread or synthetic spread.

According to the preferred embodiments as the market conditions for each leg move an effective spread order price may be calculated. For example if market conditions for Leg 1 change then an effective spread order price associated with order may be determined to reflect the new market conditions. Similarly if market conditions for Leg 2 change then an effective spread order price associated with order may be determined. Using a conventional automated spread trading tool if the effective spread order price is different from the desired spread order price then the automated spread trading tool would move or re price the leg orders in an exchange order book to maintain the desired spread order price. In particular the leg order s would be deleted from the exchange and new leg order s would be sent to the exchange to maintain the desired spread price. There are other ways to change an order which may provide similar results such as a change order request etc. However as mentioned above a trader may be charged transaction fees for moving or re pricing leg orders in the exchange order book. Additionally by deleting the previous leg order from the exchange the trader would have lost his or her position in the exchange order queue.

Alternatively effective prices of spread orders are continuously calculated. For example the preferred embodiments may be programmed to calculate effective spread order prices every second or at some other time interval. Using this alternative approach it is not necessary to monitor changes in market conditions before an effective spread order price is calculated. Similarly to the above embodiment however using a conventional automated spread trading tool if the effective price of the spread order is different from the desired price of the spread order then the automated spread trading tool would move or re price the leg orders in the exchange order book to maintain the desired spread price being sought.

In an alternative embodiment the effective prices of orders in the legs may be calculated rather than calculating an effective spread order price as performed in the above embodiments. In particular as the market conditions for each leg move the effective prices of orders in the other legs may be calculated such that the desired spread price being sought by the trader can be maintained. For example if market conditions for Leg 1 change then the effective prices of orders based on the market conditions in Leg 1 such as order through order may be calculated to maintain the spread. If market conditions for Leg 2 change then the effective prices of orders based on market conditions in Leg 2 such as order through order may be calculated to maintain the spread. Further to maintain the desired spread price being sought using a conventional automated spread trading tool if the effective prices of the leg orders are different from the prices of the leg orders then the automated spread trading tool would move or re price the leg orders in an exchange order book. In particular the leg order s would be deleted from the exchange and a new leg order s at the effective price would be sent to the exchange. However as mentioned above a trader may be charged transaction fees for moving or re pricing leg orders in the exchange order book. Additionally by deleting the previous order from the exchange the trader would have lost his or her position in the order queue.

Also in another alternative embodiment the effective prices of orders in the other legs are continuously calculated such that the desired spread price being sought by the trader can be maintained. For example the preferred embodiments may be programmed to calculate effective leg order prices every second or at some other time interval. Using this alternative approach it is not necessary to monitor changes in market conditions before the effective leg prices are calculated. Similarly to the above embodiment however to maintain the desired spread price being sought using a conventional automated spread trading tool if the effective prices of the leg orders are different from the prices of the leg orders then the automated spread trading tool would move or re price the leg orders in the exchange order book.

According to the preferred embodiments however before actually moving or re pricing the leg orders in the exchange order book the preferred embodiments determine whether it is necessary to move or re price the leg orders based on the differences in the desired spread order price and the effective spread order price or alternatively the difference in the leg order prices and the effective leg order prices and an acceptable level of market movement for which the trader is willing to allow. In other words the preferred embodiments intelligently limit the frequency at which the automated spread trading tool moves or re prices leg orders in the exchange order book.

According to the preferred embodiments if the price difference between the effective spread order price and the desired spread order price falls within an acceptable level given in one of the ranges then the leg orders preferably do not change in the exchange order book. If the price difference between the effective spread order price and the desired spread order price is outside of the acceptable level given in one of the ranges then the leg orders are preferably moved or re priced in the exchange order book to maintain the spread at the effective spread order price. The preferred embodiments allow for variable levels of acceptability or tolerances by having more than one range of parameters. Moreover each leg of the spread may have its own particular set of ranges.

According to the alternative embodiments if the price difference between the effective leg order price and the leg order price falls within an acceptable level given in one of the ranges then the leg orders preferably do not change in the exchange order book. If the price difference between the effective leg order price and the leg order price is outside of the acceptable level given in one of the ranges then the leg orders are preferably moved or re priced to the effective leg order price in the exchange order book.

The preferred process including the variable levels of acceptability or tolerances is outlined in more detail with respect to the flowchart shown in .

A method in accordance with the preferred embodiments is now described with respect to the flowchart in . The method is described as variably limiting the frequency at which an automated spread trading tool moves or re prices orders in an exchange order book. However a portion of the method is used to illustrate steps that the automated spread trading tool might take to perform its function. Such steps are not necessarily important to the understanding of the present invention nonetheless the steps show how the preferred embodiments may be integrated with the automated spread trading tool. It should be understood however that the flowchart in provides only an illustrative description and that more or fewer steps may be included in the flowchart and or the steps may occur in one or more orders which are different from the order of steps shown in . As mentioned above it should also be understood however that the preferred embodiments can be readily applied to any other trading related application that has an automatic semi automatic or non automatic order entry system using the teachings described herein.

At step a market update for one of the legs is received. A market update refers to any type of message which is usually sent from the exchange or some other order matching system to notify subscribing client devices that a change in the market has occurred. In particular market updates are used to synchronize market information represented in the exchange order book With market information represented in order books at the client devices. For instance one type of market update might indicate that the best bid price has changed or that the best offer price has changed. Another type of market update might indicate that a quantity has changed at a certain price.

At step based on the market update received at step the automated spread trading tool may determine to calculate an effective spread order price. As previously described above according to an embodiment of an automated spread trading tool the price of an order in one leg may be based on an inside market price e.g. best bid or best ask in one or more other legs. Therefore when the inside market price has changed in a leg it can have an effect on an order in another leg and the spread order. Also when the quantity available at the inside market has changed this too can have an effect on an order in another leg and the spread order. Consequently the automated spread trading tool might be looking at different variables such as price and quantities to determine if the market conditions have changed. To illustrate how a spread trading tool might react to changing market conditions consider the following example scenarios involving a two legged spread referred to as Spread which has Leg 1 and Leg 2 as its underlying legs. Also assume that the spread has a one to one spread ratio. As with any examples provided in this application the following examples are not meant to be exhaustive in covering every possible scenario.

Assume that a trader has placed a buy order for 10 at 75 in the spread. Then the automated spread trading tool would automatically place an order to buy 10 in Leg 1 and an order to sell 10 in Leg 2 because of the one to one spread ratio. According to one trading strategy the buy order price in Leg 1 would be based in part on the best bid price in Leg 2 and the sell order price in Leg 2 would be based in part on the best offer in Leg 1. Also assume that the best bid price in Leg 2 has a quantity of 25. Subsequently the spread trading tool received a market update for Leg 2 indicating that the quantity at the best bid price has been reduced to 15. However the best bid price in Leg 2 has not changed. Therefore in this example the automated spread trading tool would preferably determine that the market conditions for Leg 2 did not change enough to move or re price the order in Leg 1 to maintain the desired spread for 10 at 75. The spread trading tool would preferably proceed to step .

Assume the same facts as given in Example 1 above except consider when the automated spread trading tool received a market update for Leg 2 indicating that the best bid price has changed. The spread trading tool may need to calculate an effective spread order price and may ultimately need to move or re price the order in Leg 1 to maintain the desired spread for 10 at 75. Under this example scenario the spread trading tool would preferably proceed to step .

Examples 1 and 2 above used the inside market prices to determine a market change. However it should also be understood that an automated spread trading tool may use other reference points when determining that a market change has occurred. For example if there is not enough quantity at the best bid price the automated spread trading tool might look to other levels of market depth outside of or in addition to the inside market to satisfy the order. Then instead of or in addition to using the inside market prices it might take the average price or some other price based on the levels of depth it used however this concept is described more with respect to step . Various approaches to determining when a market change has occurred may be used such as by selecting Adjust For Market Depth which are further described in the above incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 137 979 filed on May 3 2002 and entitled System and Method for Performing Automatic Spread Trading. Then the average price or some other price found may be used to calculate an effective spread order price which is described more below with respect to step .

At step the spread trading tool calculates an effective spread order price. The effective spread order price may be based on orders in legs in which the market has not moved and the new inside market price of the leg which has received the market update. As previously mentioned above instead of using the inside market price to calculate an effective spread order price the average price or some other price found may be used.

According to the preferred embodiments any particular relationship may be used to calculate the effective spread order price and therefore the present invention is not limited as such. However for completeness U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 137 979 entitled System and Method for Performing Automatic Spread Trading may be referred to for some example relationships to determine a spread order price based on information in the other legs to maintain a spread order price.

According to another embodiment instead of receiving and waiting for a market update the automated spread trading tool may continuously calculate the effective spread order price. For example the preferred embodiments may be programmed to calculate the effective spread order price every second or at some other time interval. If this embodiment is used then steps and are not necessary as the effective spread order price is calculated at predetermined time intervals instead of when a market update is received.

At step the change between the desired spread order price and the effective spread order price e.g. found in step is determined. In other words the number of price units between the desired spread order price and its effective spread order price is determined. To illustrate step consider a desired spread order price of 50. Subsequently assume that market conditions changed in a leg for which the spread order at 50 is based in part upon. Then according to step an effective spread order price would be preferably calculated. Let us suppose the effective spread order price is 52. According to step the change in this example scenario is equal to the absolute difference between the desired spread order price of 50 and the effective spread order price of 52 which according to this example is 2. 

At step one or more of the appropriate tolerance parameters are retrieved. A trader can input one or more ranges such that each range represents an acceptable level of movement in the market. In the preferred embodiments these ranges are preferably used to limit the frequency at which automated or semi automated trading tools move or re price orders in an exchange order book. There can be as many ranges as the trader prefers. Moreover each leg of the spread may have its own set of one or more ranges.

According to the preferred embodiments each range has parameters associated with it referred to as an inside parameter and an outside parameter. Using the inside parameter and or the outside parameter the automated spread trading tool will preferably refrain from moving or re pricing orders when the change between the desired spread order price and the effective spread order price e.g. found in step remains within the tolerance levels given by at least one of the inner and or outer parameters. Additionally the automated spread trading tool will preferably move or re price appropriate leg orders only when the change between the desired spread order price and the effective spread order price e.g. found in step is determined and that the change is beyond the tolerance level associated with the inner and or outer parameters. The inside and outside parameters are similar to inside and outside slop parameters that are described in great detail in the above incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 137 979 entitled System and Method for Performing Automatic Spread Trading. The reader is encouraged to reference the above patent application for information regarding the inside and outside slop parameters. It should also be understood that the preferred embodiments do not require having two parameters e.g. the inside parameter and the outside parameter but may be implemented using only one parameter or many parameters whichever is desired.

According to the preferred embodiments a set of one or more ranges of inside and or outside parameters which are retrieved preferably correspond to the leg for which an order may be moved or re priced. For example consider when there are two legs underlying a spread. Assume that the order in leg 2 is based on the market conditions in leg 1 and the market conditions in leg 1 have just changed. The difference in the effective and desired spread order prices would preferably be determined in step . Next the preferred embodiments would retrieve the set of range s of inside and or outside parameters that correspond to leg 2. Then the preferred embodiment may determine which range to use if there is more than one out of the set. For example in the preferred embodiment if there is more than one range the difference between the spread order price and the inside market determines the range. In other words each range includes a set of price levels and if the desired spread order price is one of those price levels then that particular range is used. The concept of ranges and how they are used in the preferred embodiments are described more below.

At step once a range is retrieved the spread order price difference or change is compared with the inside parameter or the outside parameter whichever is relevant to use given in that range to determine if one of the leg orders should be moved or re priced. Alternatively the leg order price difference or change is compared with the inside parameter or outside parameter given in that range to determine if one of the leg orders should be moved or re priced.

According to the preferred embodiments the change in spread order prices e.g. determined in step is compared with the inside parameter or outside parameter e.g. retrieved from step . If the magnitude of the change is within the appropriate inside and or outside parameters then preferably no change is necessary at step . For example the trader is willing to let the spread trade for more or less e.g. depending on if the spread order is a buy or a sell order than the desired spread order price indicates. If the magnitude of the change falls outside of the appropriate inside and or outside parameters the one or more leg orders under consideration are preferably re priced and moved in the market to maintain the desired spread order price at step .

As pointed out earlier each leg preferably has its own set of one or more ranges. Preferably these sets of ranges are determined in advance before actual trading takes place. It is also envisioned however that multiple legs can share a set of one or more ranges if so desired. Additionally each range and its parameters are preferably configurable. Moreover the ranges and or parameters may be dynamic for example they can be driven by an equation or an outside source.

Table 1 below gives an example of what a set of one or more ranges might include. In particular Table 1 below shows three ranges and their corresponding tolerance parameters although any number of ranges may be setup. The values in Table 1 can be used for comparing with both buy spread orders and sell spread orders. Alternatively values in Table 1 may be used for comparing with only buy spread orders and a separate table could be used for comparing with only sell spread orders. Nonetheless when a desired spread order falls within a given range then that range s parameters are preferably used to evaluate whether a leg order should be moved or re priced to maintain the desired spread order price.

For ease of illustration Table 1 is described with respect to the synthetic spread shown in . Referring briefly to an example of a generated spread data feed is displayed in a spread window. For ease of explanation this particular spread is based on two legs. The market data displayed in the spread window was calculated using relationships that exist between the two legs each leg is shown in respectively.

According to one embodiment the ranges for buy spread orders preferably start from the best offer and the ranges for the sell spread orders preferably start from the best bid. For example referring to the best offer is 50 and for any buy spread orders range 1 e.g. 0 X

Alternatively the ranges could correspond to integer price levels. For example for any buy spread orders range 1 might include integer price levels 50 51 52 53 and 54 rather than tick levels used directly above. For any sell spread orders range 1 might include integer price levels 50 49 48 47 and 46. The present invention may utilize any unit of measure to define the ranges and therefore the present invention is not limited to the increments used or described in this application.

Moreover the buy side ranges could start from the best bid or some other designated reference point e.g. last traded price LTP last traded quantity LTQ a theoretical price or some other reference point and the sell side ranges could start from the best offer or some other designated reference point e.g. last traded price LTP last traded quantity LTQ a theoretical price or some other reference point . Therefore it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to where a range starts and ends or what price levels a range is referenced from.

As previously mentioned a set of ranges and parameters are preferably entered for each leg. In other words using a display such as shown in ranges can be set and parameters for each range can also be set for each leg. Then for example if re pricing in one leg involves a high transaction fee the tolerance for market movement can be higher whereas if re pricing in another leg involves a very low transaction fee the tolerance for market movement can be set lower. However a set of one or more ranges may be shared between legs if so programmed.

Table 2 for the leg shown in and Table 3 for the leg in below show example range levels and parameters. The ranges shown in the tables are the same for ease of explanation but the present invention is not limited to such. Therefore each table could have different ranges and inside outside parameters from each other if so desired. As pointed out earlier these values can be input through any type of display an example of which is shown in .

Referring to an order to buy 1 of the spread is shown at a price of 53.0. As a result the spread trading tool automatically would send orders into the market for the legs of the spread. The leg orders consist of an order to buy 1 at 147.0 which is shown in and an order to sell 1 at 203.0 which is shown in . According to one embodiment the order to buy 1 at 147.0 is based on the best bid price in the leg shown in and the order to sell 1 at 203.0 is based on the best offer price in the leg shown in .

Ordinarily when the inside and or outside values are set to 0 and the market conditions change in the leg shown in the order in the leg shown in is preferably re priced so that the spread shown in is maintained at 53. Likewise when the market conditions change in the leg shown in the order in the leg shown in is preferably re priced so that the spread shown in is maintained at 53. If market conditions change but the orders are not re priced then the desired spread price achieved will not be what is shown in rather it will be at an effective price that is higher or lower than 53 depending on which way the market moves. However in a practical sense the automated spread trading tool will ordinarily move or re price those orders so that the desired spread price is maintained.

However by setting the inside and or outside parameters to some value other than 0 the automated spread trading tool may be refrained from constantly moving or re pricing the orders in legs to sustain the desired spread price. For example assuming a one to one ratio e.g. market changes by one tick results in the spread moving one tick consider when the market moves up one tick in the leg shown in . The spread trading tool will preferably calculate an effective spread order price. Accordingly the appropriate range and parameters are retrieved.

According to the preferred embodiments the appropriate parameters are parameters that are associated with the leg in which a possible order change might occur. In this example the parameters associated with the leg shown in are retrieved e.g. parameters in Table 2 as the leg order price in might have to be moved or re priced depending on the next analysis.

Accordingly the desired buy spread order price is in one of the price levels in range 2. Range 2 in Table 2 results in an inside parameter of 3 and an outside parameter of 3. Because the effective spread order price was only one tick difference from the desired spread order price the calculated price falls with the boundaries 3 ticks above 147.0 and or 3 ticks below 147 or equivalently the change in prices is less than 3 ticks. Therefore the working leg order in will not have to be moved or re priced. Then if the trade had occurred at that moment the trader would buy sell the spread at the effective spread price. If however the effective spread order price fell outside of the inside and or outside parameters then the working leg order would preferably be moved or re priced in the market to maintain the desired spread order price of 53.

The preferred embodiments provide a flexible solution as they give a trader many possible options to configure how and when to limit the frequency at which such trading tools mover or re price orders in the market. The preferred embodiments allow for one or more tolerance levels to be set to determine when to move or re price orders in the market. Also the preferred embodiments may be used with any trading strategy to regulate order entry.

The foregoing description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles herein may applied to other embodiments. Therefore it should be understood that the above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and not limitation. Many changes and modifications come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

