---

title: Method for fabricating and employing a paving system using arrays of vertically interlocking paving blocks
abstract: A method for fabricating and forming a continuous covered area, such as a sidewalk or patio, employing vertically interlocking tessellated components. One embodiment, termed PORTAPAVE™, achieves this interlocking via an array of uniquely configured two-sectioned pavers. Each paver has a first section of a first shape and a second section of a second shape impressed upon the first section and bonded together. In one embodiment, first sections of pavers are installed in a bottom layer to form a cavity between them having the same shape as the second section of a paver that is inverted onto the pavers of the bottom layer, thus providing a top layer. Each inverted paver in this top layer is fitted to interlock in that cavity formed between the un-inverted pavers in the bottom layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07419327&OS=07419327&RS=07419327
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07419327
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061122
---
Under paragraph 1 a of Executive Order 10 096 the conditions under which this invention was made entitle the Government of the United States as represented by the Secretary of the Army to the entire right title and interest therein of any patent granted thereon by the United States. This patent and related ones are available for licensing. Contact Phillip Stewart at 601 634 4113.

This application claims the benefit of prior co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 923 889 Paving System Using Arrays of Vertically Interlocking Paving Blocks by Weiss et al. filed Aug. 24 2004 incorporated herein by reference.

Heretofore providing a lateral attachment between laterally adjacent elements in a paving system has been a problem. U.S. Pat. No. 5 054 253 Rigid Grating Mat with Unidirectional Elements to Bedics Oct. 8 1991 describes a system for building a mat that has separate plank like elements that are joined laterally by a tongue and groove construction. This makes for a complicated extrusion that is difficult to construct and is easily extended laterally only in one direction.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 429 451 Grid Matrix System Including Interconnected Revetment Blocks to Pettee Jul. 4 1995 describes a grid matrix system that has interconnected revetment blocks. These square or hexagonal blocks have alternate recesses and locking protrusions or ears . A disadvantage of this construction is that it can be easily vandalized because the individual blocks or elements can be lifted vertically. Further casting the units in concrete presents problems because the ears and edges of the locking recesses can be relatively easily broken.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise in part employing a component having a first section with first sides parallel to a first plane containing a first bearing surface and a first thickness in a second plane orthogonal to the first plane the first thickness of a dimension less than that of any of the first sides and a second section having second sides parallel to both the first plane and a second plane containing a second bearing surface the second plane parallel to the first plane the second section contacting the first section uniformly along a part of the first plane the second section oriented to the first section such that the second sides are contained entirely within the perimeter formed by the first sides.

One embodiment employs a component having the first sides form a first square and the second sides form a second square set at about a 45 angle to the first square the second square having sides of a length approximately 0.707 that of the first sides.

Another embodiment employs a component having the first sides form a hexagon and the second sides form a diamond with the long axis of the diamond extending in a line joining the center of two parallel sides of the hexagon and the short axis of the diamond chosen to be the same width as that formed by two parallel first sides of the hexagon.

Another embodiment employs a component having the first sides form a square and the second sides form a single right triangle along two adjacent sides of the square.

In select embodiments of the present invention employed components may have first and second sections fabricated such that the first and second sections are incorporated inseparably in the component. In select embodiments of the present invention employed components may have at least one of the first and second sections formed of a lamination of at least two layers. In select embodiments of the present invention employed components may have at least one of the layers made of a material flexible under compression.

An embodiment of the present invention may employ an array of any of the components above comprising a first set of four components each component arranged in a plane to abut a first component along a first axis in that plane and a second component arranged along a second axis in that plane the second axis orthogonal to the first axis and a second set of four components arranged as above the second four components inverted and arranged to interlock vertically with the first four components.

In select embodiments of the present invention a configuration of arrays as above may be employed as a plurality of the arrays abutting one to another and arranged to cover a pre specified area. In select embodiments of the present invention the above configuration further may be employed as partial components for forming finished edges of the configuration such as a component cut in half.

In select embodiments of the present invention employed configurations may be arranged to form a pathway.

In select embodiments of the present invention employed arrays may be joined by flexible means incorporated between the first and second sections during fabrication and extending in a plane approximately parallel to each of the first and second sections so as to permanently connect and position each of the four components in an array. The flexible means may employ material selected from the group consisting essentially of a mesh a fabric roving a web perforated fabric a wire mesh an elastomer and combinations thereof.

In select embodiments of the present invention a plurality of employed connected arrays abutting one to another may be arranged to cover a pre specified area such a road or pathway. In select embodiments of the present invention employed configurations may comprise partial components such as components cut in half for forming finished edges of the configuration e.g. a road or pathway.

Select embodiments of the present invention provide a method for covering a pre specified area comprising leveling the pre specified area arranging any of the employed components as described above in an array as described above abutting a number of arrays to cover the pre specified area in a first plane and inverting a second configuration of pre specified like arrays over the first configuration such that the second configuration interlocks vertically with the first configuration and adding partial components such as components cut in half for forming finished edges of the interlocked configurations.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method employs components comprising first sides forming a first square second sides forming a second square set at about a 45 angle to the first square the second square having sides of a length approximately .707 that of the first sides.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method employs components comprising first sides forming a hexagon and second sides forming a diamond with the long axis of the diamond extending in a line joining the center of two parallel sides of the hexagon and the short axis of the diamond chosen to be the same width as that formed by two parallel first sides of the hexagon.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method employs components comprising first sides forming a square and second sides forming a single right triangle along two adjacent sides of the square.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method employs a component comprising first and second sections fabricated such that the first and second sections are incorporated inseparably in the employed component.

In select embodiments of the present invention a method employs a component in which at least one of the first and second sections is formed of a lamination of at least two layers. In select embodiments of the present invention at least one of the layers may be constructed of a material flexible under compression.

Select embodiments of the present invention provide a method of fabricating components for a vertically interlocking configuration comprising providing a first mold to form a first section as described above providing a second mold to form a second section as described above pouring a fluid mixture of a first material into the first mold to be at least partially hardened in the mold as the first section permitting the first mixture to at least partially harden in the first mold placing a second mold over the first at least partially hardened mixture in a pre specified orientation pouring a fluid mixture of a second material into the second mold to be hardened in the mold upon hardening of the first and second mixtures to a pre specified level removing both molds and trimming the component as necessary.

In select embodiments of the present invention the above method of fabricating may also comprise arranging at least four like components in a pre specified array and adding a connecting means over at least a portion of each of the first sections of each before placing the second mold so that the connecting means is embedded in each component both connecting and orienting the components in an array. The employed connecting means may comprise material selected from the group consisting essentially of a mesh a fabric roving a web perforated fabric a wire mesh an elastomer and combinations thereof. In select embodiments of the present invention fabrication may employ the same material for the first and second sections.

In select embodiments of the present invention the employed sections may be a mixture containing at least some Portland cement. In select embodiments of the present invention a method may employ different materials for fabricating the first and second sections. In select embodiments of the present invention a method of fabrication may employ layers of different materials for at least one of the first and second sections such that at least one of the first and second sections is a laminate of at least two layers. In select embodiments of the present invention at least one material flexible in compression may be employed in at least one of the layers.

Select embodiments of the present invention may be employed to form a continuous paved traffic way without having to laterally interlock a paving block with its neighbor. One employed embodiment suitable for quickly forming a pavement is termed PORTAPAVE .

This is achieved in one aspect by employing a paving mat that comprises an array of paving blocks and means for connecting the paving blocks together in the array. Each paving block includes a bottom part having a first shape and a top part having a second shape. Neighboring top parts of blocks form a cavity between them having the same shape as the top part of a block so that a second similar array of paving blocks can be turned upside down and overlapped and interlocked with the first array of paving blocks to make a two layered block paving unit.

Also provided in an embodiment of the present invention is a method of making a paving mat that comprises providing a first array of the above described paving blocks and providing means for connecting the paving blocks together in the array. In one embodiment since neighboring top parts of blocks form a cavity between them having the same shape as the convex top part of a block in one method a second similar array of paving blocks is turned upside down thus overlapping and interlocking with the first array of paving blocks to make a two layered block paving unit.

Embodiments of the present invention unlike conventional articulated concrete mats employ overlapping vertically interlocking arrays thus maintaining integrity of the mat. In one embodiment placement of the employed blocks involves staggering the positions of the blocks so that a block in an upper layer partly covers the intersection of the contacting blocks in the lower layer. This reduces the chance for vegetation to grow through the paving unit. In one embodiment the means for connecting the employed paving blocks together in an array is an opaque material such as a fabric or an elastomer. This opaque material blocks light and either kills vegetation or confines it.

In one embodiment runoff water can be controlled by inserting a mesh fabric between layers or providing drain holes in the connecting means. In one embodiment employed paving units may be moved by lifting upper layers mats so that the lower layers mats may be separated. In embodiments to be installed permanently a layer of mortar may be spread over the lower layer and the upper layers bonded thereto. Embodiments of the present invention may facilitate a change in the direction of the pavement by staggering the employed layers mats laterally so the track curves as needed.

Embodiments of the present invention employ arrays of vertically interlocking units that may be employed in applications otherwise suitable for conventional individual paving blocks. In embodiments of the present invention the employed connecting means prevent individual blocks from moving laterally. In conventional systems this is accomplished by attaching the connecting means from one array of blocks to adjacent arrays. A cavity formed between neighboring top parts of the un inverted units has the same shape as a unit s top section so that a second similar array of units may be inverted and interlocked with the un inverted array to make a two layered paving mat for example. Thus in embodiments of the present invention interlocking an un inverted array with an inverted array of units obviates the need for any holding means.

In embodiments of the present invention arrays of vertically interlocking units may be employed as portable pathways e.g. pedestrian or vehicle thoroughfares that may be temporary or permanent. Embodiments of the present invention may also be employed on fords where it is necessary to anchor the units on a slope. Embodiments of the present invention may also be used to prevent stream bank erosion as a base for a waterproof liner or as a weed free break to limit or control grass fires.

Refer to showing a rectangular array of four abutting units each comprising a bottom section and a smaller raised top section comprising an integral part of a unit . The units may be top and bottom portions of what are termed pavers in the construction industry. The units may be constructed of moldable materials such as Portland cement and its variations any of a variety of plastics fiberglass steel carbon or KEVLAR fibers para aramids and combinations of these. The two sections may be formed in a mold as a single entity such that they are not individual parts that may be separated. In the embodiment shown in the perimeter of the top section is defined by drawing a line from the middle of a side of the bottom section diagonally across to the middle of an adjacent side of the bottom section and continuing around the sides until the shape of the top section is obtained as seen in the top plan view of . In one embodiment of the present invention all such units are identical and symmetrical with respect to top and bottom sections. The symmetry enables the use of like units by inverting an array of units over an un inverted array of units such that each of the top sections mate in the space created in the un inverted array where four corners of the units of the un inverted array come together.

Refer to a perspective view of an employed unit shown in a top view in the array in . This unit is essentially a small box on large box arrangement with the top section small box being arranged so that each of its corners are at the center of the sides of the bottom section large box resulting in a small box having sides in the plane parallel to the bottom section large box of approximately 0.707 that of the sides of the bottom section . Each of the sections is square in the plane at which they contact and set at approximately 45 with respect to each other in that plane. The thickness tand t of each of the employed sections respectively is chosen according to structural and esthetic requirements of the user and need not be the same for each section .

Refer to . For clarity an employed single inverted unit is shown as a shaded area over the array of in a configuration that highlights the interlocking feature of the present invention. The dark shaded portion represents a top section for the inverted unit . The employed un inverted array of is shown in with a perimeter of dashed lines since this un inverted portion will not be visible in any installation of this embodiment of the present invention being covered by inverted units that will be placed outwardly in the direction of the arrows . The interlocking occurs at each intersection of the corners of the un inverted units . At the edges of an intended installation of multiple employed arrays the inverted units may be cut in half diagonally to make a smooth edge that matches the edges of the un inverted array on bottom. Alternatively half units not shown separately may be molded at the factory for forming portions of the edges of installations e.g. pathways or thoroughfares .

Refer to . A configuration of three employed inverted abutting units is placed over an edge of the employed array of to further illustrate the interlocking feature of an embodiment of the present invention. An end edge view of the resultant configuration as taken with a vertical cut through of is shown in . The half squares of the employed top sections cover the intersection between the two employed abutting un inverted units below the edge insuring a double thickness of coverage above each intersection of the un inverted units . Conversely where the employed inverted units abut is at the middle of one of the un inverted units.

Refer to . In one embodiment of the present invention an employed means for connecting together an employed small array of units such as a web of perforated fabric or a wire mesh of metal or suitable roving is provided in a configuration for ease in placing and maintaining spacing of the units should one wish to make a permanent installation with mortar and grouting between employed units . The spacing d may be adjusted to accommodate performance and esthetic requirements of the user.

Refer to a simplified representation of the employed units of as arranged in a manner that enables changing direction to establish a desired pathway that results in the configuration . The representation of is illustrative only demonstrating that pathways may be made in various configurations enabling changing of direction. For illustrative purposes shows a single half block as it may be used on an edge of a pathway to provide a smooth edge to the configuration . is for illustrative purposes only and depicts only the inverted units with the un inverted units implied as being installed under the inverted units .

The employed units may be manufactured in a variety of ways. For example in one embodiment bottom sections may be made by filling a first mold or form with a self hardening mixture such as a Portland cement based concrete. A connecting means such as web perforated fabric or metal wire mesh may be placed over the uncured mixture in the first form and a second form placed over the connecting means to establish the top section . An additional layer of mixture is cast over the connecting means such that the second mixture bonds to the first mixture through perforations in the connecting means .

A second way of manufacturing employed units is to pre cast the top and bottom sections and bond or attach them to opposite sides of the connecting means .

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. The basis for getting the employed inverted and un inverted units to interlock is to use a regular tessellation on each of the top and bottom surfaces of the unit . The large box small turned box combination of an embodiment of the present invention is two square tessellations with the smaller box tessellation on the top of the layer of units placed on the bottom and rotated 45 degrees with a grid spacing or side length that is 0.707 times that of the larger box tessellation. Another usable combination would be triangles but with triangles the orientation of the base and apex of the triangle is important since adjacent triangles are oriented in opposite directions in a regular tiling of triangles. There are exactly three regular tessellations composed of regular polygons tiling a plane. They are hexagons squares and triangles.

Refer to for an example of hexagon sections employed in an array . The bottom section of this array is a hexagon while the top section is a symmetric diamond with the long axis of the diamond shaped top section extending in a line joining the center of two parallel sides of the hexagon of the bottom section and the short axis of the diamond shaped top section chosen to be the same width as a side of the hexagon shaped bottom section . The employed array of hexagon shaped units is also amenable to connection of individual units in small arrays using a mesh or fabric such as the four unit array of . These small connected arrays such as array of may be connected with or without spacing d for mortar or grouting. Unlike the small box large box arrangement of the interlocking section i.e. the diamond shaped top section of the bottom layer of the hexagon array is exposed in the top layer of the array . Thus the hexagon array may be chosen for other reasons such as esthetics.

Refer to . A configuration involves overlapping employed units that are squares with an employed raised right triangle covering half of one side of each of the units leaving a like right triangle that is not raised on the other half of that side of the unit . The configuration of may consist of employed arrays of individual units each having one raised right triangle section on one side or alternatively rather than having four individual units making an array a single large square may be fabricated as the array with four raised right triangles formed on the single large square comprising the array . This alternative large square array with four integral raised right triangles on one side would have the benefit of not needing a mesh or other means to hold together the units and would eliminate four seams two of which are shown between the arrows so that overlapping inverted arrays each would have fewer portions where seams overlapped as compared to using individual units each with only one raised triangle . To minimize the number of seams exposed an inverted four unit configuration could overlap a single small square as indicated by the arrow or overlap half of a bottom layer as indicated along the line represented by the arrow .

The easiest interlocking units to fabricate and install are those involving different sized squares as described above for the array of and a combination of squares with raised right triangles on half of one side as depicted in . The most practical interlocking system may be the small box large box combination of . It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined in the following claims. In the claims means plus function clauses are intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment of fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw may be equivalent structures.

The abstract is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract which will allow a searcher to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure of any patent issued from this disclosure. 37 CFR 1.72 b . Any advantages and benefits described may not apply to all embodiments of the invention.

