---

title: IRIS digester-evaporator interface
abstract: A digester-evaporator for partially digesting a sample and for evaporating the solvent after partial digestion. The digester includes at least one reaction coil; a heating element arranged along a portion of the reaction coil; at least a portion of the reaction coil proximate to its output being preheated by the heating element to a degree sufficient to convert a partially digested sample into vapor; a collector spoon with carrier water for collecting sample vapor; and an evaporator portion including an evaporation chamber including a substantially vertically-oriented tube The collector spoon is arranged in the top of the substantially vertically-oriented tube, and a gas supply tube for supplying a preheated gas provided in a top of the substantially vertically-oriented tube so as to create a cyclonic gas flow into the chamber and carry the sample to a container area in a bottom portion of the chamber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08007742&OS=08007742&RS=08007742
owner: United States of America as represented by the Secretary of Commerce
number: 08007742
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060523
---
This application claims priority from U.S. provisional application Ser. 60 718 453 filed Sep. 20 2005.

The present device relates to analytic methods and devices for separation and quantification. More particularly the present invention relates to the separation and quantification of selenium containing proteins and devices that support the process of separation and quantification.

There are a number of essential micronutrients in both humans and animals and many cases their significance is not fully understood. For example selenium Se which is found in both humans and animals in almost trace amounts can be used as an accurate health marker. Lower than normal levels of Se in humans can affect reproduction immuno response miscarriage rate and thyroid function to name just a few areas as well as suppression of the destruction of free radicals that may be responsible for the formation of certain types of cancer. Typically elements such as Se are found within a human or animal body in proteins which in this case are referred to as for example selenoamino acids selenocysteine and selenomethionine .

There are several studies that support the finding that the measurement of selenium containing proteins are better health markers than a total selenium count. In fact the main selenium containing proteins found in human serum and plasma are albumin gluthathione peroxidase GSHPx and selenoprotein P SepP see Arce Osuna M. University of Massachusetts Analytical Chemistry Department Amherst Ma September 2005 incorporated herein by reference.

The most common techniques used for the separation identification and quantification of selenium containing proteins are mainly based on antibody specificity and affinity chromatographic processes. For example to separate the selenium containing protein techniques such as immunoassay anion exchange chromatography heparin affinity chromatography immobilized metal affinity chromatography IMAC and size exclusion SEC have been used in the art with some degree of success.

In addition protein identification has been accomplished by a combination of chromatographic retention time sodium dodecylsulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis SDS PAGE analysis and GSHPx activity of chromatographic fractions.

Quantification of the amount of selenium as well as sulfur in a sample has been performed by using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ICP MS atomic absorption spectrometry AAS and by derivatization for fluorimetric detection. However some of the major disadvantages of the aforementioned methods include poor reproducibility specificity inadequate sensitivity analyte losses and contamination.

In order to determine the amount of selenium in each protein there are salts contained within the mobile phases buffers for affinity chromatography and organic solvents used in reversed phased chromatography pose a problem when a coupled liquid chromatograph inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry LC ICP MS instrument is used. More specifically the high concentration of salts above 0.5 to 1.0 g mL in ICP MS in most cases has a detrimental effect on the analyte signal because of matrix effects. In addition the organic solvent that is typically used in chromatography is also a problem in ICP MS measurements. There is a problem in that the high vapor pressure in the spray chamber reduces the analyte transport to the plasma torch and at high concentrations reduces the effective ionization power of the plasma. The results is a significant ICP MS background drift resulting from a chromatographic gradient run. Sending organic solvents into an ICP MS may also cause the build up of carbon in the sampling cones. is a photo showing some of the carbon build up that can occur.

Moreover the problems encountered when an inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ICP MS unit was coupled directly to the continuous flow from reversed phase liquid chromatograph includes a high background signal first increasing and then decreasing in magnitude during the course of a chromatographic gradient solvent as well as the aforementioned carbon build up and transport difficulties.

There have been attempts to reduce the concentration of the organic solvent that reaches the ICP MS and or reduce the amount of effluent that arrives at the ICP MS. It is for example a common practice to add a small amount of oxygen to a nebuliser gas flow and to operate the plasma at high power in order to make the system more robust to the effects of organic solvent.

For example desolvated aerosol has been produced in a number of different ways such as combining thermospray or ultrasonic nebulisers with a membrane desolvator or connecting a membrane with cryogenic cooling. However these approaches still result in a low concentration of organic solvent being introduced into the ICP. Therefore it is still very difficult to eliminate residual solvent from an ICP spray chamber after each chromatographic run such that a subsequent chromatographic run is affected by the previous run having an affect on the integrity of the measurements.

Accordingly research conclusions might be affected by the uncertainty or the bias of the methods used and there is a need in the art for a more accurate quantification of both selenium and selenium containing protein.

The inventors have created an IRIS Digester Evaporator IRIS DE interface device that overcomes the problems encountered when an inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ICP MS unit is coupled directly to the continuous flow from a reversed phase liquid high performance chromatography RC HPLC . The present invention provides an apparatus and a method for interfacing the IRIS DE to couple an RP HPLC with an ICP MS system so as to be able to quantify certain micronutrients with an accuracy and reliability heretofore unknown.

The IRIS DE interface device can for example be used to process the HPLC effluent by digesting the sample with nitric acid evaporating the undesirable high concentration excess of nitric acid and solvent in line and sending the sample to the ICP MS in a high aqueous solvent stream. The present invention serves to eliminate all of the organic solvent n line and the conditions nitrogen flow carrier water temperature can be optimized for each application. The dimensions can be modified to suit different flow rates.

Additionally the system is able to partially digest the analyte before the solvent evaporation process. These processes improve analyte transport to the ICP permitting efficient analyte excitation and ionization and drastically reduce the carbon that tends to build up on the ICP MS cones after extended use. The IRIS DE can be cleaned online by stopping the nitrogen flow carrier water and HPLC effluent flow raising the temperature and then flushing the water.

An IRIS DE interface digestion apparatus according to the present invention includes a high pressure polyetherketone PEEK tee that receives the flow from an HPLC system mixes the flow with nitric acid and then passes the mixture to a PEEK reaction coil to premix and start the acid digestion process. The PEEK reaction coil is connected to a second preheated reaction coil made of quartz wherein the sample is partially digested and transferred to the vapor phase.

It is understood by a person of ordinary skill in the art that the drawings are presented for purposes of illustration and not for limitation. The embodiments shown and described herein do not encompass all possible variations of the arrangement of structure or the type of substances that can be quantified thereby. Therefore an artisan appreciates that many modifications can be made within the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended claims than the illustrative examples shown and described.

With continued reference to the digester part of the chamber includes a PEEK polyetherketone high temperature tee a PEEK reaction coil a second reaction call quartz made generally from quartz hereinafter quartz reaction coil and a heating pad element . The Peek high temperature tee has a first opening that receives a flow from an HLPC system and a second opening that typically receives concentrated nitric acid HNO so as to begin to mix with the flow of HPLC. Fluids entering the tee at exit the tee at and enter into the PEEK reaction coil .

However it should be noted that while it is preferred that the sample in solvent and acid first begin to premix when exiting a common output of the tee it is well within the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended claims that either the sample in solvent or the acid could pass into the coil consecutively.

Also a person of ordinary skill in the art understands that it is within the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended claims that there can be substitutes for the tee shown and described for example a collector vessel pre mixing device that could provide as an output a combination of the sample in solvent and acid. While nitric acid is preferred there could be a different acid other than nitric used in operation depending upon the material to be digested. The function is to perform the partial digestion and there may be instances where different degrees of digestion are desired by either varying the type or possibly the concentration of acid used.

The PEEK reaction coil is connected to the output of the tee so that the fluids exiting the tee will begin to mix and start the acid digestion process. Additionally as shown in the PEEK reaction coil is arranged outside of the chamber housing and the fluids passing therein are exposed to room temperature during the beginning of the acid digestion process.

The Peek reaction coil is connected to the quartz reaction coil . The reaction coil is preheated typically on order of 250 300 C. There is a heating pad arranged at the bottom of the chamber housing which aids to assist in keeping the fluids passing through the quartz reaction coil at the preheated temperature.

For purposes of illustration and not for limitation the nitric acid may typically have 1 ppb Se in 100 HNO 0.28 mL min using a peristaltic pump not shown 0.015 ID 18 rpm tygon tube .

A collector spoon is arranged within the open tube as shown by the arrows via the throat of the open tube and down into a lower portion close to the digester. The arrangement of the collector spoon in the open tube assists in the receipt collection of sample vapor. Typically some carrier water is placed on the collector spoon to enhance the vapor collection process. In addition a glass tube is used to supply pre heated Nitrogen gas before it enters the evaporator chamber through an axial opening .

In operation with reference to it should be noted that the IRIS DE is coupled to the HPLC using reversed phased RP chromatography processes HPLC effluent by digesting protein analytes with nitric acid evaporates the undesirable high concentration excess of nitric acid and organic solvent on line and sends the sample to the ICP MS also coupled to the IRIS DE at am output in a highly aqueous stream. Through this process a continuous flow received from reversed phase liquid chromatography systems with gradient elution can be easily handled by existing ICP MS instruments.

More particularly a flow of preheated nitrogen N in the line and the preheated quartz chamber is used to evaporate the remaining nitric acid and most of the organic solvent from the sample mix. The sample travels through the open tube that goes into the chamber at the top .

The design of the IRIS DE is such that the flow coats the surface and increases the evaporative contact area with the gas so that molecules with lower boiling points evaporate first and are removed from the flow by the nitrogen gas the organic solvent evaporates faster than the water. The nitrogen flows create a cyclonic gas flow into the chamber that together with the glass cover helps to maintain the chamber temperature. Also the nitrogen gas acts as a carrier that sweeps vapor molecules from the flow and sends them out the chamber through the top and axial openings.

When the flow reaches the chamber bottom the digested sample is dissolved mainly in water. Then a peristaltic pump not shown is used to continuously pull flow from the evaporator chamber and send it into the ICP MS.

The IRIS Evaporator shown in can also be used to concentrate a low amount of analyte by introducing a sample flow with a peristaltic pump that would replace the HPLC flow.

The IRIS DE interface can be commercially implemented as an HPLC ICP MS interface system by construction in an enclosure fitted with a vacuum exhaust flow and accurate control of variables. The variables for this device can include the temperature of the digester and the evaporator the nitrogen gas flow the carrier water flow the position of the collector spoon the peristaltic pump removal and the physical dimensions.

Another advantage of the present invention is that the next run is unaffected by the previous run resulting in a measurement system that is more robust than known heretofore. The reason is because virtually all of the organic solvent is eliminated online in a run of the IRIS DE so conditions such as nitrogen flow temperature and carrier water can be optimized for each application. The dimensions can be modified to suit different flow rates. In addition the system is able partially to digest the analyte before the solvent evaporation process.

While the invention has been described with reference to a specific example a person of skill will certainly be able to achieve many other equivalent forms all of which will come within the field and scope of the invention. For example the invention is not limited to HPLC ICP MS applications as it can be used as a faster on line sample preparation device for ICP systems and also for flame atomic absorption spectro photometry FAAS .

