---

title: Aminotransferase, gene encoding the same, and method of using them
abstract: The invention relates to a novel aminotransferase, DNA encoding the enzyme, a recombinant vector into which the DNA has been introduced, and a transformant into which the vector has been introduced. Further, the invention also relates to a method for producing an optically active amino compound utilizing the enzyme or transformant. The aminotransferase of the invention has an ability of efficiently converting a ketone compound, particularly a cyclic ketone compound to an optically active amino compound. According to the invention, a method for efficiently producing an optically active amino compound, particularly an optically active cyclic amino compound is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08133705&OS=08133705&RS=08133705
owner: Kaneka Corporation
number: 08133705
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060522
---
The present invention relates to an enzyme capable of converting a ketone compound to an optically active amino compound efficiently via amino group transferring reaction and a method of producing the optically active amino compound by using the enzyme. The optically active amino compound obtained by the present invention can be used as an intermediate for medical drugs agricultural chemicals and the like.

As one conventional example of producing an optically active amino compound via an amino group transferring reaction it has been reported that amino group transfer to benzylacetone phenylacetone and acetophenone by using amino acid transaminase obtained from can synthesize optically active amino compounds from these ketones respectively U.S. Pat. No. 2 846 074 Patent Citation 1 . However this synthesis is not so industrially applicable due to extremely low substrate concentration in its reaction solution.

Meanwhile WO00 26351 Patent Citation 2 describes that an aryl alkyl ketone such as 3 hydroxy acetophenone 3 trifluoromethylphenylacetone or the like is reacted with S phenethylamine pyruvate transaminase thereby to synthesize an optically active amino compound of the ketone compound. Patent Citation 2 however does not refer to cyclic ketones.

Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2002 142793 Patent Citation 3 obtains an aminotransferase from sp. The aminotransferase is characterized in that it will not be inhibited by gabaculine which is an enzyme inhibitor. Patent Citation 3 describes that it is possible to synthesize an optically active amino compound from propiophenone by transferring an amino group in n butylamine thereto by using the aminotransferase. However this synthesis is not so industrially applicable due to extremely low substrate concentration in its reaction solution.

An object of the present invention is to provide a method of efficiently producing an optically active amino compound from a ketone compound especially cyclic ketone compound. Such an optically active amino compound is useful as an intermediates for medical drugs agricultural agents etc.

The inventors of the present invention found a microorganism having a high activity to cyclic ketones and an amino group transfer activity with stereo selectivity as a result of screening of various microorganisms form soils. Moreover the inventors of the present invention successfully isolated and purified an enzyme having the activity from the microorganism. Furthermore as a result of detailed studies on the reactivity properties of the aminotransferase the inventors of the present invention found that the enzyme has such an excellent property that if S phenethylamine or the like is used as an amino donor the enzyme is highly active not only with the cyclic ketones but also with ketone compounds of wide variety such as arylalkylketone such as benzylacetone and pyruvic acid so as to produce an optically active amino compound corresponding to the ketone compound. Furthermore via gene recombination technique the inventors of the present invention obtained a gene encoding the enzyme and found a base sequence thereof. Furthermore the inventors of the present invention bred from the gene a transformant producing the enzyme. As a result the inventors of the present invention prepared a transformant having a higher activity and thereby established a method of industrially producing an optically active amino compound.

 1 effect the aminotransferase catalyzes an amino group transfer reaction that produces acetophenone and 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine from 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone and optically active S phenethylamine 

 3 molecular weight approximately 120 000 when measured by gel filtration and approximately 53 000 when measured by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.

Moreover the present invention is an aminotransferase having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 in the sequence list or an aminotransferase having an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 in the sequence list in which one or some amino acids are deleted replaced inserted or added in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 in the sequence list and producing acetophenone and 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine from 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone and optically active S phenethylamine.

Moreover the present invention is DNA encoding the enzyme a vector having the DNA and a transformant obtained by transformation with a vector.

Moreover the present invention is a method of producing an optically active amino compound the method comprising 

reacting a carbonyl compound in the presence of an amino donor with the enzyme or a culture product of a microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the carbonyl compound being represented by General Formula 1 

Moreover the present invention is a method of producing an optically active amino compound the method comprising 

reacting a carbonyl compound in the presence of an amino donor with the enzyme or a culture product of a microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the carbonyl compound being represented by General Formula 3 

Moreover the present invention is a method of producing an optically active amino compound the method comprising 

reacting an enantiomer mixture of an amino compound in the presence of an amino acceptor or a culture product of a microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the amino compound being represented by General Formula 5 

Moreover the present invention is a method of producing an optically active amino compound the method comprising 

reacting a carbonyl compound in the presence of an amino donor with the enzyme or a culture product of a microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the carbonyl compound being represented by General Formula 7 

Moreover the present invention is a method of producing an optically active amino compound the method comprising 

reacting an enantiomer mixture of an amino compound in the presence of an amino acceptor with the enzyme or a culture product of a microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the amino compound being represented by General Formula 9 

Moreover the present invention is a method of producing an optically active amino compound the method comprising 

reacting a carbonyl compound in the presence of an amino donor with the enzyme or a culture product of a microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the carbonyl compound being represented by General Formula 11 

Moreover the present invention is a method of producing an optically active amino compound the method comprising 

reacting an enantiomer mixture of an amino compound in the presence of an amino acceptor with the enzyme or a culture product of a microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the amino compound being represented by General Formula 13 

An enzyme having an activity to stereo selectively transfer an amino group to a ketone compound especially a cyclic ketone compound is isolated. A transformant with high productivity in producing the enzyme can be obtained. Further the use of the transformant makes it possible to produce an optically active amino compound efficiently.

The present invention is descried below in details. Unless otherwise specified DNA isolation vector preparation and genetic operations such as transformation can be carried out by methods described in literatures such as Molecular Cloning 2nd Edition Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1989 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Greene Publishing Associates and Wiley Interscience and the like.

 1 Effect it catalyzes an amino group transfer reaction that produces acetophenone and 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine from 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone and optically active S phenethylamine.

 a Amino donor it is active with S phenethylamine but substantially inactive with alanine taurine putrescine DL ornithine and DL lysine.

 3 Molecular Weight approximately 120 000 when measured by gel filtration and approximately 53 000 when measured by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.

The following method is applicable to measure the activity of the amino group transferring reaction to produce acetophenone and 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine from 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone and the optically active S phenethylamine.

Into 0.9 mL of a substrate solution having the following composition 0.1 mL of a purified enzyme solution adjusted to a protein concentration of 2 mg mL is added. After carrying out reaction at 30 C. for 1 hour therein 0.1 mL of 1N HCl is added therein to stop the reaction thereby obtaining 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine which is then quantitatively analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography.

The enzyme of the present invention is substantially inactive in the case where the amino donor is any of alanine taurine putrescine DL ornithine and DL lysine. Here the term substantially inactive means that amino group transfer activity measurement carried out in the following manner shows that the amino group transfer activity in the case where the amino donor is the amino compound is 1 100 or less preferably 1 1000 or less and further preferably 1 10000 or less of the amino group transfer activity in the case where the amino donor is S phenethylamine.

The amino group transfer activity measurement is carried out as follows Firstly 20 L of a purified enzyme solution having a protein concentration of 0.2 mg mL is added to 380 L of a substrate solution having the following composition. After carrying out reaction at 30 C. for 1 hour therein 20 L of 3N hydrochloric acid is added therein to stop the reaction. Then into 20 L of the resultant reaction mixture a 0.2M sodium carbonate aqueous solution of 80 L and an acetone solution of 200 L containing dabsyl chloride by 3.3 mg mL are added. Then the resultant mixture is reacted at 70 C. for 10 min. After 20 L of acetic acid is added therein with stirring. The reaction mixture thus obtained is analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography thereby to quantitatively analyze dabsylated alanine.

Moreover the enzyme of the present invention is active in case where the amino acceptor is glyoxylic acid instead of 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone or pyruvic acid.

A molecular weight of the enzyme can be determined from a relative elution time to standard protein which is measured by gel filtration analysis using HiLoad 16 60 Superdex 200 prep grade column Amersham Biosciences K.K. . As a carrier the gel filtration analysis uses a 0.01M potassium phosphate buffer pH 8 containing 0.15M NaCl 0.01 v v 2 mercaptoethanol 20 mM pyridoxal phosphate and 0.1 mM PMSF. Moreover a molecular weight of a subunit can be determined from a relative mobility to the standard protein which is measured by 10 SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.

Moreover the enzyme of the present invention may have the following physical and chemical properties.

 6 Thermal Stability after being treated with pH 7.0 and a temperature of 30 C. to 40 C. for 30 min the enzyme maintains 90 or more of its activity that the enzyme has before the treatment.

The optimum pH for the enzymic reaction can be determined by measuring in a range of pH 4.0 to pH 11.0 the amino group transfer activity in amino group transfer using S phenethylamine and 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone. The measurement of the optimum pH uses the following buffers for the substrate solution depending on pH at which the measurement is carried out.

The optimum temperature for the enzymic reaction can be determined by measuring at a reaction temperature in a range of 20 C. to 60 C. the amino group transfer activity in amino group transfer using S phenethylamine and 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone.

The thermal stability of the enzyme can be determined by measuring the amino group transfer activity with the purified enzyme adjusted to a protein concentration of 2 mg mL with 0.1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 0.02 mM pyridoxal phosphate and then treated with a temperature in a range of 20 C. to 70 C. for 30 min.

In general a higher concentration of pyridoxal phosphate in the reaction solution would improve the optimum temperature and thermal stability of the aminotransferase.

Further the enzyme of the present invention can catalyze an amino group transfer reaction in which a ketone compound other than 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone is reacted with S phenethylamine as the amino donor so as to produce acetophenone and an amino compound corresponding to the ketone compound.

The enzyme of the present invention may be any enzyme provided that it has the properties described above. For example the enzyme of the present invention can be obtained from microorganisms belonging to sp. One preferable example of the microorganisms which can be the origin of the enzyme of the present invention is . More preferably the enzyme of the present invention may be obtained from KNK08 18.

As to medium for the microorganism having the enzyme of the present invention a liquid nutrition medium containing generally used carbon source nitrogen source an inorganic salt organic nutrition and or the other provided that the microorganism can grow therein.

The culturing of the microorganism may be preceded by culturing the microorganism in a medium in which an inducing material for the enzyme of the present invention is added therein. Examples of the inducing material encompass propylamine 1 butylamine 2 butylamine 2 pentylamine isopropylamine isobutylamine 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin and the like. The inducing materials may be used solely or in combination. There is no particular limitation as to how much the inducing material is added. Considering inhibition of growth of the microorganism or the other factors it is preferable that the inducing material be added by 1 by weight or less in the normal medium composition. Moreover there is no particular limitation as to timing of the addition of the inducing material and the inducing material may be added when the culturing is started or during the culturing.

Purification of the enzyme of the present invention from the microorganism having the enzyme can be done by a well known protein purification technique. In the following a technique for obtaining a polypeptide of the present invention is exemplified. This technique uses KNK08 18. It should be noted that the present invention is not limited to this technique.

Firstly KNK08 18 was inoculated in a 50 mL medium in 500 mL Sakaguchi flask composition 5 g L KHPO 5 g L KHPO 0.16 g L MgSO.7HO 0.018 g L FeSO.7HO 0.012 g L ZnSO.HO 0.002 g L MnSO.7HO 0.001 g L CuSO.7HO 0.02 g L NaCl 20 g L glycerin 10 g L yeast extract Nihon Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. 500 mg L S 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin pH 7.2 . Then it is incubated at 30 C. for 1 day thereby to obtain the culture broth. Next the culture broth is inoculated in a 3.0 L medium having the same composition in 5 L mini jar and incubated at 30 C. under air ventilation of 0.6 vvm and stirring of 400 rpm for 28 hours.

Then the cells are collected from the culture broth centrifugally and suspended in a 0.01M potassium phosphate buffer pH 8.0 containing 0.01 2 mercaptoethanol and 0.02 mM pyridoxal phosphate. The dispersion solution thus obtained is subjected to ultrasonic disintegration. Then solid materials in the liquid subjected to the ultrasonic disintegration are removed centrifugally thereby obtaining a cell free extract solution. Then protamine sulfate is added in the cell free extract solution thereby to remove nucleic acid therefrom.

The enzyme of the present invention can be purified by subjecting the resultant protamine sulfate treated liquid to a column chromatography whose typical examples are ion exchange chromatography adsorption chromatography hydrophobic chromatography and the like.

One example of the enzyme obtained in this way is an enzyme formed from the amino acid sequence listed as SEQ ID NO 1 in the sequence list. However the enzyme of the present invention is not limited to this and encompass enzymes formed from amino acid sequences in which one or some amino acids are deleted replaced inserted or added in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 provided that the enzyme has amino group transfer reaction activity for producing acetophenone and 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine from 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone and optically active S phenethylamine.

Polypeptides formed from the amino acid sequences in which one or some amino acids are deleted replaced inserted or added in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 can be prepared from the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 according to well known methods described in literatures on experiments such as Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley and Sons Inc. 1989 .

There is no particular limitation as to site s at which the one or some amino acids are deleted replaced inserted or added. However it is preferable that the site s be out of high preservation region. The high preservation region is location in which amino acids in an amino acid sequence of one aminotransferase derived from one origin are identical with amino acids in an amino acid sequence of another aminotransferase derived from another origin when the amino acid sequences are compared in optimum alignment.

The number of the amino acids deleted replaced inserted or added is preferably 10 or less more preferably 5 or less and further preferably 3 or less. The modified amino acid sequence may have one modification e.g. replacement or two more modifications e.g. replacement and insertion . Moreover it is preferable in the replacement that the replacing amino acid s and the replaced amino acid s be homogeneous with each other.

A DNA of the present invention is a DNA for encoding the polypeptide and may be any DNA provided that it can express the polypeptide in a host cell in which it is introduced by a method described later. The DNA of the present invention may include any non translation region. If the polypeptide can be obtained via purification a person skilled in the art can adopt a well known method to obtain such a DNA from a microorganism from which the polypeptide is derived.

It should be noted that the present invention is not limited to the later described example using KNK08 18 FERM BP 10599 .

Firstly the polypeptide enzyme purified from the cell free extract prepared from the microorganism is digested with an appropriate endopeptidase thereby cleaving the polypeptide into fragments which are then purified via reverse phase HPLC. Then part of the amino acid sequence thereof is determined by for example protein sequencer ABI492 Applied Biosystems . From the amino acid sequence information thus obtained PCR Polymerase Chain Reaction primers for amplifying part of DNA that encodes the polypeptide is synthesized. Next using a general DNA isolation method for example a method introduced by Murray et al. Nucl. Acids Res. 8 4321 4325 1980 a genomic DNA of the microorganism is prepared. Using this genomic DNA as a template PCR is carried out with the PCR primers thereby to amplify the part of the DNA that encodes the polypeptide. In this ways a base sequence of the part of the DNA is determined. The base sequence can be determined by using the DNA Sequencer ABI373A Applied Biosystems or the like. Once the base sequence of part of the DNA that encodes the polypeptide it is possible to determine a whole sequence thereof by for example Inverse PCR Nucl. Acids Res. 16 8186 1988 .

One example of DNA obtainable in this way is the DNA having the base sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 in the sequence list. The DNA of the present invention is not limited to this example and encompasses any DNA that encodes the polypeptide of the present invention. For example the present invention encompasses DNA that is hybridizable with the DNA having a base sequence complementary with the base sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 in the sequence list under stringent conditions and that encodes a polypeptide having an activity to produce acetophenone and 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine from 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone and optically active S phenethylamine.

Here the DNA that is hybridizable with the DNA having a base sequence complementary with the base sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 in the sequence list under stringent conditions is a DNA that contains the base sequence complementary with the base sequence of SEQ ID NO 2 in the sequence list and forms a hybrid when treated with a colony hybridization method plaque hybridization method or southern hybridization method or the like.

An example of the stringent conditions is such conditions that hybridization is carried out at 65 C. in the presence of NaCl of 0.7M to 1.0M with a filter on which a polynucleotide derived from a colony or plaque is immobilized and then the filter is washed at 65 C. with a 2 SSC solution a 1 SSC solution contains 150 mM sodium chloride and 15 mM sodium citrate . A preferable example thereof is such conditions that the post hybridization washing is carried out at 65 C. with a 0.5 SSC solution. A more preferable example thereof is such conditions that the post hybridization washing is carried out at 65 C. with a 0.2 SSC solution. A further more preferable example thereof is such conditions that the post hybridization washing is carried out at 65 C. with a 0.1 SSC solution.

A vector of the present invention may be any vector that can introduce the DNA into a host cell so as to express a polypeptide encoded the DNA in the host cell. Examples of such a vector DNA encompass a plasmid vector phage vector cosmid vector and the like. Moreover a shuttle vector which can exchange a gene with another host strain can be used as the vector of the present invention.

Preferably the vector may contain a workably bonded control factor such as a promoter e.g. lacUV5 promoter trp promoter trc promoter tac promoter lpp promoter tufB promoter recA promoter pL promoter so that the vector contains an expression unit bonded workably with the DNA of the present invention. For example pUCNT WO94 03613 and the like can be used preferably.

The term control factor used herein is a base sequence having a functional promoter and a given relating transcription element e.g. enhancer CCAAT box TATA box SPI site etc. .

The term workably bonded used herein means that the gene and an adjusting element of various type such as the promoter enhancer or the like which adjusts the expression of the gene are bonded with each other in such a manner that they can work in the host cell. A person skilled in the art can understand that the type and kind of the control factor is variable depending on the host.

Examples of the host cell applicable in the present invention encompass microorganism cells such as bacteria yeasts filamentous bacteria and the like plant cells animal cells and the like. The microorganism cells are preferable and is especially preferable. The vector containing the DNA of the present invention can be introduced into the host cells by a well known method. In the case where the host cell is the vector can be introduced by for example calcium chloride method. Examples of a transformant in which the vector containing the DNA of the present invention encompass HB101 pNTMTA FERM P 20238 and the like.

Next described is a method for producing an optically active amino compound by using the aminotransferase of the present invention or a microorganism capable of producing the aminotransferase. Examples of the microorganism capable of producing the aminotransferase of the present invention encompass KNK08 18 FERM BP 10599 and the transformant in which the vector containing the DNA of the present invention is introduced.

Examples of the method of the present invention for producing the optically active amino compound encompass a producing method I and a producing method II. The producing method I includes stereo selectively transferring an amino group from an amino donor to a ketone compound having a main structure identical with that of the targeted amino compound and then collecting the optically active amino compound thus obtained. The producing method II includes transferring amino group from one of enantiomers in an enantiomer mixture of an amino compound to an amino acceptor selectively and then collecting the remaining enantiomer optically active amino compound .

According to the producing method a carbonyl compound is reacted in the presence of the amino donor with the enzyme or a culture product of the microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the carbonyl compound being represented by General Formula 1 

For example a carbonyl compound is reacted in the presence of the amino donor with the enzyme or a culture product of the microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the carbonyl compound being represented by General Formula 3 

In General Formulae 3 and 4 q is an integer of 0 to 7 r is an integer of 0 to 2 R is a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of carbon number of 6 to 14 heteroaryl group of carbon number of 4 to 14 aryloxy group of carbon number of 6 to 14 heteroaryloxy group of carbon number of 4 to 14 alkoxy group of carbon number of 1 to 5 alkoxycarbonyl group of carbon number of 2 to 5 branched alkyl group of carbon number of 3 to 5 alkenyl group of carbon number of 2 to 5 alkynyl group of carbon number of 2 to 5 cycloalkyl group of carbon number of 5 to 7 methyl group or carboxyl group X is a hydrogen atom or a substituted or unsubstituted methyl group and q r if R is the methyl group.

The aryl group of carbon number of 6 to 14 may be a phenyl group naphthyl group or the like. The heteroaryl group of carbon number of 4 to 14 may be a pyridyl group thienyl group oxadiazolyl group imidazolyl group thiazolyl group furyl group pyroly group or the like. The aryloxy group of carbon number of 6 to 14 may be a phenoxy group naphtoxy group or the like. The heteroaryloxy group of carbon number of 1 to 4 may be a pyrridyloxy group thienyloxy group oxadiazolyloxy group imidazolyloxy group thiazolyloxy group furyloxy group pyrrolyloxy group or the like. The alkoxy group of carbon number of 1 to 5 may be a methoxy group ethoxy group tert butoxy group or the like. The alkoxycarbonyl group of carbon number of 2 to 5 may be a methoxycarbonyl group ethoxycarbonyl group tert butoxycarbonyl group or the like. The branched alkyl group of carbon number of to 5 may be an isopropyl group sec butyl group tert butyl group or the like. The alkenyl group of carbon number of 2 to 5 maybe a vinyl group allyl group or the like. The alkynyl group of carbon number of 2 to 5 may be acethylene group or the like. The cycloalkyl group of carbon number of 5 to 7 may be cyclopenthyl group cyclohexyl group cycloheptyl group or the like. Note that the carbon number of the alkoxycarbonyl group includes the carbonyl carbon.

These groups may be a substituted group with a substituent. Examples of the substituent encompass a halogen atom a hydroxyl group an alkoxy group of carbon number of 1 to 4 such as methoxy group ethoxy group methylenedioxy group or the like and the other.

Among the ketone compounds represented by General Formula 3 compounds wherein X is a hydrogen atom and r is 1 or 2 are preferable. Specific thereof examples encompass 2 butanone 2 pentanone 2 hexanone 2 heptanone 2 octanone 3 hexanone 3 heptanone 3 octanone methoxypropanone 1 methoxy 2 butanone 1 methoxy 3 butanone acetophenone 2 chloroacetophenone 3 chloroacetophenone 4 chloroacetophenone 2 hydroxyacetophenone 3 hydroxyacetophenone 4 hydroxyacetophenone 2 methoxyacetophenone 3 methoxyacetophenone 4 methoxyacetophenone 2 4 dimethoxyacetophenoe 3 4 dimethoxyacetophenone 2 trifluoromethylacetophenone 3 trifluoromethylacetophenone 4 trifluoromethylacetophenone phenylacetone 2 chlorophenylacetone 3 chlorophenylacetone 4 chlorophenylacetone 2 hydroxyphenylacetone 3 hydroxyphenylacetone 4 hydroxyphenylacetone 2 methoxyphenylacetone 3 methoxyphenylacetone 4 methoxyphenylacetone 2 4 dimethoxyphenylacetone 3 4 dimethoxyphenylacetone 2 trifluoromethylphenylacetone 3 trifluoromethylphenylacetone 4 trifluoromethylphenylacetone benzylacetone 2 chlorobenzylacetone 3 chlorobenzylacetone 4 chlorobenzylacetone 2 hydroxybenzylacetone 3 hydroxybenzylacetone 4 hydroxybenzylacetone 2 methoxybenzylacetone 3 methoxybenzylacetone 4 methoxybenzylacetone 2 4 dimethoxybenzylacetone 3 4 dimethoxybenzylacetone 2 trifluoromethylbenzylacetone 3 trifluoromethylbenzylacetone 4 trifluoromethylbenzylacetone 1 naphthylacetone 2 naphthylacetone 2 acethylpyridine 3 acethylpyridine 4 acethylpyridine acethylpyrazine 2 acethylfuran 3 acethylfuran 2 acethylthiophene 3 acethylthiophene 2 acethylthiazole benzoyl ethyl acetate and the like.

Moreover the producing method I may be arranged such that a carbonyl compound is reacted in the presence of the amino donor with the enzyme or a culture product of the microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the carbonyl compound being represented by General Formula 7 

In General Formulae 7 and 8 m is an integer of 0 to 3 n is an integer of 2 to 4 where n m and the ring A is a benzene ring unsubstituted or substituted with a halogen atom a hydroxyl group an alkoxy group of carbon number of 1 to 4 methoxy group ethoxy group methylenedioxy group or the like or the like.

Among the ketone compounds represented by General Formula 7 compounds wherein m is 1 and n is 2 is preferable. Specific examples of the compounds encompass 1 indanone 4 methoxy 1 indanone 5 methoxy 1 indanone 6 methoxy 1 indanone 7 methoxy 1 indanone 2 tetralone 5 methoxy 2 tetralone 6 methoxy 2 tetralone 7 methoxy 2 tetralone 8 methoxy 2 tetralone 5 hydroxy 2 tetralone 6 hydroxy 2 tetralone 7 hydroxy 2 tetralone 8 hydroxy 2 tetralone 1 tetralone 5 methoxy 1 tetralone 6 methoxy 1 tetralone 7 methoxy 1 tetralone 8 methoxy 1 tetralone and the like. More preferable are 1 tetralone 2 tetralone 5 methoxy 2 tetralone 6 methoxy 2 tetralone 7 methoxy 2 tetralone and 8 methoxy 2 tetralone. 7 methoxy 2 tetralone is most preferable.

Furthermore the producing method I may be arranged such that a carbonyl compound is reacted in the presence of the amino donor with the enzyme or a culture product of the microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the carbonyl compound being represented by General Formula 11 

In General Formulae 11 and 12 j and k are independently an integer of 1 to 3 where k j Ris a hydrogen atom aryl group of carbon number of 6 to 14 heteroaryl group of carbon number of 4 to 14 alkyl group of carbon number of 1 to 6 alkoxy group of carbon number of 1 to 6 acyl group of carbon number of 2 to 15 alkoxycarbonyl group of carbon number of 1 to 6 aralkyl group of carbon number of 7 to 15 aralkyloxycarbonyl group of carbon number of 8 to 16 or a sulfonyl group substituted with an alkyl group of carbon number of 1 to 6 or aryl group of carbon number of 6 to 14.

The aryl group of carbon number of 6 to 14 may be a phenyl group naphthyl group or the like. The heteroaryl group of carbon number of 4 to 14 may be a pyridyl group thienyl group oxadiazolyl group imidazolyl group thiazolyl group furyl group pyrrolyl group or the like. The alkyl group of carbon number of 1 to 6 may be a methyl group ethyl group n propyl group isopropyl group n butyl group sec buthyl group tert butyl group or the like. The alkoxy group of carbon number of 1 to 6 may be a methoxy group ethoxy group tert butoxy group or the like. The acyl group of carbon number of 2 to 15 may be acetyl group pivaloyl group benzoyl group or the like. The alkoxycarbonyl group of carbon number of 1 to 6 may be a methoxycarbonyl group ethoxycarbonyl group tert butoxycarbonyl group or the like. The aralkyl group of carbon number of 7 to 15 may be benzyl group or the like. The aralkyloxy group of carbon number of 8 to 16 may be benzyloxycarbonyl group or the like. The sulfonyl group substituted with an alkyl group of carbon number of 1 to 6 or aryl group of carbon number of 6 to 14 may be a mesyl group tosyl group or the like. Note that the carbon numbers of the acyl group alkyloxy group and aralkyloxy group include the carbonyl carbon.

Among the ketone compound represented by General Formula 11 compounds wherein j is 1 and k is 2 is preferable. Moreover compounds wherein Ris a hydrogen atom phenyl group benzyl group benzoyl group benzyloxycarbonyl group tert butoxycarbonyl group mesyl group or tosyl group are preferable. Specific examples thereof encompass 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 3 pyrrolidinone 1 tosyl 3 pyrrolidinone 1 mesyl 3 pyrrolidinone 1 benzyloxycarbonyl 3 pyrrolidinone 3 pyrrolidinone and the like. 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone is more preferable.

The alkyl group of carbon number of 1 to 10 may be a methyl group ethyl group n propyl group isopropyl group n butyl group sec butyl group tert butyl group or the like. The cycloalkyl group of carbon number of 5 to 7 may be cyclopentyl group cyclohexyl group cycloheptyl group or the like. The aralkyl group of carbon number of 7 to 15 may be benzyl group or the like. The aryl group of carbon number of 6 to 14 may be phenyl group naphthyl group or the like.

In the amine compounds represented by General Formula 15 it is preferable that Rbe a substituted or unsubstituted straight or branched alkyl group of carbon number of 1 to 10 or a substituted or unsubstituted aryl group of carbon number of 6 to 10 and it is more preferable that Rbe a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group of carbon number of 1 to 5 or phenyl group. It is preferable that Rbe a hydrogen atom a carboxyl group or a substituted or unsubstituted alkyl group of carbon number of 1 or 2. It is more preferable that Rbe a hydrogen atom or a methyl group.

Specific examples of the compound represented by General Formula 15 encompass phenethylamine 2 butylamine 2 pentylamine 2 heptylamine 2 octylamine alanine glycin n propylamine n butylamine n amylamine isopropylamine benzylamine phenethylamine and optically active isomers thereof.

In the producing method I in the presence of the amino donor represented by General Formula 15 the ketone compound represented by General Formula 1 3 7 or 11 is reacted with the enzyme of the present invention or the culture product of the microorganism capable of producing the enzyme. Here the culture product means i a culture broth containing the cells ii incubated cells or iii a material prepared therefrom. The material prepared therefrom means for example a cell free extract solution freeze dried cells acetone dried cells or a ground product of such dried cells and the like. Moreover the enzyme and culture product may be immobilized by a well known method so as to be used immobilized enzyme or immobilized microorganism. The immobilization may be carried out by a method well known among persons skilled in the art e.g. cross linking method physical adsorption method entrapment method or the like .

As to concentration of the substrate used in the reaction mixture the ketone compound is in a range of 0.1 to 20 by weight or preferably in a range of 1 to 10 by weight in the reaction solution. If the amino donor is a chiral amine concentration of the amino donors is in a range of 80 to 1200 mol or preferably in a range of 100 to 600 mol in relation to the ketone compound. Moreover if the amino donor is a racemic amine compound one of enantiomers may have the concentration as specified above.

Considering optimum pH of the enzyme pH at which the enzyme of the present invention works is preferably 5.0 or more and more preferable 6.0 or more at lowest and is preferably 10.0 or less and more preferably 9.0 or less at highest.

Considering the optimum temperature and thermal stability of the enzyme a temperature at which the enzyme of the present invention works is preferably 25 C. or higher and more preferably 30 C. or higher and is preferably 60 C. or lower and more preferably 50 C. or lower.

A reaction solvent is generally an aqueous solvent such as ion exchanged water a buffer solution or the like. However the reaction may be carried out in a system containing an organic solvent. The organic solvent may be for example an alcohol solvent such as methanol ethanol propanol isopropanol butanol or the like an aliphatic hydrocarbon solvent such as pentane hexane or the like an aromatic hydrocarbon solvent such as benzene toluene or the like a halogenated hydrocarbon such as methylene chloride chloroform or the like an ether solvent such as diethylether diisopropylether or the like an ester solvent such as ethyl acetate butyl acetate or the like a ketone solvent such as acetone methylethylketone or the like acetonitrile or the other organic solvent.

The reaction may be carried out in a two phase system by adding such an organic solvent in an amount equal to or greater than its solubility to water. In a reaction system in which such an organic solvent is coexisted there are many cases that selective rates transfer rates yields or the other factors are improved.

The reaction provides the optically active amino compound represented by General Formula 2 4 8 or 12 . The optically active amino compound thus obtained can be isolated from the reaction mixture via a well known method such as extraction distillation recrystallization column separation or the like.

For example after pH acidification unreacted substrate and the ketone compound obtained via the amino group transfer reaction from the amino donor can be removed into a general solvent while the obtained optically active amino compound in the water phase the general solvent being an ether such as diethyl ether diisopropylether or the like an ester such as ethyl acetate butyl acetate or the like a hydrocarbon such as hexane octane benzene or the like a halogenated hydrocarbon such as methylene chloride or the like or the other solvent. The resultant optically active amino compound and the unreacted amino donor can be separated by for example distillation.

In the producing method II an enantiomer mixture of an amino compound is reacted in the presence of the amino acceptor with the enzyme or a culture product of the microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the amino compound being represented by General Formula 5 

Among the amino compounds represented by General Formula 5 compounds wherein X is a hydrogen atom and r is 1 or 2 are preferable. Specific examples thereof encompass 2 butylamine 2 pentylamine 2 hexylamine 2 heptylamine 2 octylamine 3 hexylamine 3 heptylamine 3 octylamine methoxypropylamine 1 methoxy 2 butylamine 1 methoxy 3 butylamine phenethylamine 2 chloro phenethylamine 3 chloro phenethylamine 4 chloro phenethylamine 2 hydroxy phenethylamine 3 hydroxy phenethylamine 4 hydroxy phenethylamine 2 methoxy phenethylamine 3 methoxy phenethylamine 4 methoxy phenethylamine 2 4 dimethoxy phenethylamine 3 4 dimethoxy phenethylamine 2 trifluoromethyl phenethylamine 3 trifluoromethyl phenethylamine 4 trifluoromethyl phenethylamine 1 phenyl 2 aminopropane 1 2 chlorophenyl 2 aminopropane 1 3 chlorophenyl 2 aminopropane 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 aminopropane 1 2 hydroxyphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 2 methoxyphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 3 methoxyphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 4 methoxyphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 2 aminopropane 1 phenyl 3 butylamine 1 2 chlorophenyl 3 butylamine 1 3 chlorophenyl 3 butylamine 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 butylamine 1 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 3 hydroxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 2 methoxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 3 methoxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 4 methoxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 2 3 dimethoxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 2 4 dimethoxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 3 butylamine 1 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 butylamine 1 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 butylamine 1 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 butylamine 1 1 naphtyl 2 aminopropane 1 2 naphtyl 2 aminopropane 1 2 pyridyl ethylamine 1 3 pyridyl ethylamine 1 4 pyridyl ethylamine 1 pyrazylethylamine 1 2 furyl ethylamine 1 3 furyl ethylamine 1 2 thienyl ethylamine 1 3 thienyl ethylamine 1 2 thiazolyl ethylamine phenylalanine and the like.

Moreover the producing method II may be arranged such that an enantiomer mixture of an amino compound is reacted in the presence of the amino acceptor with the enzyme or a culture product of the microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the amino compound being represented by General Formula 9 

In General Formulae 9 and 10 m n and the ring A are identical with m n and the ring A in General Formulae 7 and 8 .

Among the amino compound represented by General Formula 9 compounds wherein m is 1 and n is 2 are preferable. Specific examples thereof encompass 1 aminoindan 4 methoxy 1 aminoindan 5 methoxy 1 aminoindan 6 methoxy 1 aminoindan 7 methoxy 1 aminoindan 2 aminotetralin 5 methoxy 2 aminotetralin 6 methoxy 2 aminotetralin 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin 8 methoxy 2 aminotetralin 5 hydroxy 2 aminotetralin 6 hydroxy 2 aminotetralin 7 hydroxy 2 aminotetralin 8 hydroxy 2 aminotetralin 1 aminotetralin 5 methoxy 1 aminotetralin 6 methoxy 1 aminotetralin 7 methoxy 1 aminotetralin 8 methoxy 1 aminotetralin and the like. More preferable are 1 aminotetralin 2 aminotetralin 5 methoxy 2 aminotetralin 6 methoxy 2 aminotetralin 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin and 8 methoxy 2 aminotetralin. 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin is most preferable.

Furthermore the producing method II may be arranged such that an enantiomer mixture of an amino compound is reacted in the presence of the amino acceptor with the enzyme or a culture product of the microorganism capable of producing the enzyme the amino compound being represented by General Formula 13 

Among the amino compounds represented by General Formula 13 compounds wherein j is 1 and k is 2 are preferable. Moreover compounds are preferable in which Ris a hydrogen atom phenyl group benzyl group benzoyl group benzyloxycarbonyl group tert butoxycarbonyl group mesyl group or tosyl group. Specific examples thereof encompass 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 3 aminopyrrolidine 1 tosyl 3 aminopyrrolidine 1 mesyl 3 aminopyrrolidine 1 benzyloxycarbonyl 3 aminopyrrolidine and 3 aminopyrrolidine. 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine is preferable.

In the producing method II the ketone compound acts as the amino acceptor. Any ketone compound can be adopted therein provided that it can act as an amino acceptor. The ketone compound is preferably pyruvic acid or glyoxylic acid.

In the producing method II an enantiomer mixture of the amino compound is reacted in the presence of the amino acceptor with the enzyme or a culture product of the transformant capable of producing the enzyme the amino compound being represented by General Formula 5 9 or 13 .

Here the enantiomer mixture of the amino compound represented by General Formula 5 9 or 13 is a mixture of an enantiomer represented by General Formula 6 10 or 14 and its enantiomeric isomer. In general racemates which are low in cost and easy to obtain are preferable. However the present invention is not limited to recemates and may be arranged such that a mixture containing the enantiomer represented by General Formula 6 10 or 14 slightly more than its enantiomeric isomer is used. This increase the optical purity by the producing method II.

In the reaction concentration of amino compound 5 9 or 13 is in a range of 0.1 to 20 by weight and preferably in a range of 1 to 10 by weight in the reaction solution composition. Moreover concentration of the amino acceptor is in a range of 30 to 100 mol and preferably in a range of 50 to 60 mol in relation to the amino compound.

The producing method II is identical with the producing method I as to reaction pH reaction temperature and reaction solvent.

Via the reaction described above the optically active amino compound represented by General Formula 6 10 or 14 is produced. The optically active amino compound thus obtained can be isolated from the reaction mixture in the same manner in the producing method I.

Yield and purity of the optically active amino compounds thus produced via the producing methods I and II can be evaluated for example via quantitative analysis carried out by subjecting the reaction solution to separation using a reverse phase column Cosmosil 5C18 AR Nacalai Tesque Inc. or the like 25 acetonitrile or the like as its mobile phase and then comparing adsorption thereof at 210 nm with a control. Optical purity can be measured by forming a diastereomer by bonding the obtained amino compound with N carboxy L leucine anhydride or the like and subjecting the diastereomer to high performance liquid chromatography using a reverse phase column Cosmosil 5C18 AR Nacalai Tesque Inc. or the like .

In the following the present invention is described in more details referring to Examples which are not to limit the present invention.

Then protamine sulfate was added in the cell free extract solution thereby to remove nucleic acid therefrom. Into the protamine sulfate treated solution ammonium sulfate was added to 30 saturation and dissolved thereby obtaining precipitates which was then centrifugally removed. Into a supernatant thus obtained ammonium sulfate was added to 60 saturation and dissolved therein thereby obtaining precipitates which was then centrifugally collected.

The precipitates were dissolved in a 10 mM phosphate buffer pH 8.0 containing 0.01 2 mercaptoethanol 20 mM pyridoxal phosphate and 0.1 mM phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride PMSF . Then the buffer was dialyzed. The dialyzed was introduced in a DEAE TOYOPEARL 650M Tosoh Corp. column 300 mL equilibrated with the same buffer. Thereby active fractions of the dialyzed were adsorbed therein. After the column was washed with the same buffer the active fractions were eluted into sodium chloride solutions with a linear gradient from 0M to 0.3M .

The eluted active fractions were added together and mixed with ammonium sulfate to final concentration of 1.2M. The resultant solution was introduced into Phenyl TOYOPEARL 650M Tosoh Corp. column 120 mL equilibrated in advance with a 10 mM phosphate buffer pH 8.0 containing 1.2M ammonium sulfate 0.01 2 mercaptoethanol and 20 mM pyridoxal phosphate and 0.1 mM PMSF. Thereby the active fractions were adsorbed therein. After the column with the same buffer the active fractions were eluted into ammonium sulfate solutions with a linear gradient from 1.2M to 0M . The eluted active fractions were added together and then dialyzed with a 10 mM phosphate buffer pH 8.0 containing 0.01 2 mercaptoethanol and 20 mM pyridoxal phosphate and 0.1 mM PMSF.

A crude enzyme solution thus obtained was introduced into Q sepharose 16 10HP column Amersham Biosciences K.K. equilibrated in advance with a 10 mM phosphate buffer pH 8.0 containing 0.01 2 mercaptoethanol and 20 mM pyridoxal phosphate and 0.1 mM PMSF. Thereby the active fractions were adsorbed therein. After the column was washed with the same buffer the active fractions were eluted into sodium chloride solutions with a linear gradient from 0 M to 0.7M .

The eluted active fractions were added together and mixed with ammonium sulfate to final concentration of 1.0M and then introduced into Butyl TOYOPEARL 650S Tosoh Corp column 25 mL equilibrated in advance with a 10 mM phosphate buffer pH 8.0 containing 1.0M ammonium sulfate 0.01 2 mercaptoethanol and 20 mM pyridoxal phosphate and 0.1 mM PMSF. Thereby the active fractions were adhered therein. After the column was washed with the same buffer the active fractions were eluted into ammonium sulfate solutions with a linear gradient from 1.0M to 0M . An active crude enzyme solution was thereby obtained and then concentrated via ultrafiltration.

The crude enzyme solution thus concentrated was introduced into Hi LOAD 16 60 Superdex 200 p g column Amersham Biosciences K.K. equilibrated in advance with a 10 mM phosphate buffer pH 8.0 containing 0.01 2 mercaptoethanol and 20 mM pyridoxal phosphate 0.1 mM PMSF and 0.15M sodium chloride. Thereby a purified enzyme sample that was uniform electrophoresis wise. Hereinafter the enzyme is referred to as MTA.

The purified MTA enzyme thus obtained in Example 1 was evaluated in its physical and chemical properties.

The purified enzyme solution was adjusted to a protein concentration of 2 mg mL. Then 0.1 mL of the enzyme solution was added to a substrate solution of 0.9 mL having the following composition and then reacted at 30 C. One hour later 0.1 mL of 3N hydrochloric acid was added therein thereby to stop the reaction. The reaction solution thus obtained was analyzed via high performance liquid chromatography. This confirmed that MTA was capable of causing amino group transfer acting with optically active S phenethylamine and 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone thereby to produce acetophenone and 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine.

To find optimum pH of the MTA the amino group transfer activity was measured in a range of pH 4 to 11 in the same manner as above except that the following buffers were used depending on pH to measure . As a result it was found that the optimum pH was in a range of 7 to 9.

The activity was measured in a temperature range of 20 C. to 70 C. under the same conditions as above pH 7.0 . As a result it was found that the reaction optimum temperature was in a range of 30 C. to 50 C.

The MTA was heated at temperatures of 20 C. to 70 C. for 30 min in a 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 0.02M pyridoxal phosphate. Then the activity was measured under the same conditions temperature 30 C. and pH 7.0 . As a result it was found that 90 or more of the activity was maintained after the heat treatments with the temperatures of 20 C. to 40 C.

The MTA was measured in molecular weight by a gel filtration method using HiLoad 16 60 Superdex 200 prep grade Amersham Biosciences K.K. . It was found that the MTA had a molecular weight of approximately 120 000. Moreover a molecular weight of a subunit thereof was measured by SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. It was found that the subunit had a molecular weight of approximately 53 000.

In 20 L of the purified Enzyme 380 L of a 0.1M potassium phosphate buffer containing 14 mM of 7 methoxy 2 tetralone and 14 mM in case of the racemic amine compound 28 mM of an amine compound of various type was added. After the mixture was reacted at 30 C. for 1 hour 20 L of 3N hydrochloric acid was added therein to stop the reaction. The reaction solution thus obtained was analyzed via high performance liquid chromatography so as to quantitatively analyze 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin thus obtained. Thereby the amino group transfer activities with the various amino compounds were analyzed. Results of the analysis are shown in Table 1 in which the amino group transfer activities are shown as relative activities where the activity with S phenethylamine is 100. As shown in Table 1 this enzyme showed an especially high activity with S phenethylamine.

The purified enzyme obtained in Example 1 was analyzed in terms of its reactivity to typical substrates of co amino acid transaminase. Firstly 20 L of a purified enzyme solution having a protein concentration of 0.2 mg mL was added to 380 L of a substrate solution having the following composition. After carrying out reaction at 30 C. for 1 hour therein 20 L of 3N hydrochloric acid was added therein to stop the reaction. Then into 20 L of the resultant reaction mixture a 0.2M sodium carbonate aqueous solution of 80 L and an acetone solution of 200 L containing dabsyl chloride by 3.3 mg mL were added. Then the resultant mixture was reacted at 70 C. for 10 min. After 20 L of acetic acid was added therein with stirring. The reaction mixture thus obtained was analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography thereby to quantitatively analyze dabsylated alanine. Results of the analysis are shown in Table 2 which the amino group transfer activities are shown as relative activities where the activity with S phenethylamine as the amino donor is 100. As shown in Table 2 this enzyme showed no activity with alanine taurine putrescine DL ornithine and DL lysine.

The purified enzyme obtained in Example 1 was analyzed in terms of substrate specificity regarding amino acceptors. In 20 L of the purified Enzyme 380 L of a 0.1M potassium phosphate buffer containing 14 mM of S phenethylamine and 14 mM of a ketone compound of various type was added. After the mixture was reacted at 30 C. for 1 hour 20 L of 3N hydrochloric acid was added therein to stop the reaction. Results of the analysis are shown in Table 3 in which the relative activities are shown where the activity with pyruvic acid as the amino acceptor is 100. As shown in Table 3 this enzyme showed high activity with pyruvic acid and glyoxylic acid but no activity with 2 ketoglutaric acid.

The purified enzyme obtained in Example 1 was analyzed in terms of substrate specificity regarding amino acceptors in the same manner as in Example 5. Results of the analysis are shown in Table 4.

The purified enzyme obtained in Example 1 was analyzed in terms of its reactivity to typical substrates of amino acid transaminase. Firstly 20 L of a purified enzyme solution having a protein concentration of 0.2 mg mL was added to 380 L of a substrate solution having the following composition. After carrying out reaction at 30 C. for 1 hour therein 20 L of 3N hydrochloric acid was added therein to stop the reaction. Then into 20 L of the resultant reaction mixture a 0.2M sodium carbonate aqueous solution of 80 L and an acetone solution of 200 L containing dabsyl chloride by 3.3 mg mL were added. Then the resultant mixture was reacted at 70 C. for 10 min. After 20 L of acetic acid was added therein with stirring. The reaction mixture thus obtained was analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography thereby to quantitatively analyze dabsylated alanine or glutaric acid. Results of the analysis are shown in Table 5 in which the relative activities are shown where the activity with S phenethylamine as the amino donor is 100. In Table 5 the values of activities of amino acid pyruvic acid transaminase and 4 amino butyric acid 2 ketoglutaric acid transaminase are from the literatures Agric. Biol. Chem. 41 1701 1706 1977 Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 200 156 164 1980 . As shown in Table 5 this enzyme was not reactive with alanine taurine putrescine and 4 amino butyric acid which are typical substrates of amino acid transaminase but was highly active with S phenethylamine.

By using protein sequencer ABI 492 Perkin Elmer Biosystems an N terminal amino acid sequence of the purified MTA obtained in Example 1 was determined. Moreover the purified MTA thus obtained in Example 1 was denatured in the presence of 8M urea and then digested with lysyl endopeptidase derived from Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. thereby obtaining an amino acid sequence cleaved into peptide fragments. The amino acid sequence was determined in the same way as the determination of the N terminal amino acid sequence. Considering a base sequence predicted from the amino acid sequence a primer 1 SEQ ID NO 3 in the sequence list and a primer 2 SEQ ID NO 4 in the sequence list for PCR amplification of part of the MTA gene were synthesized.

From a culture broth of KNK08 18 a genomic DNA was extracted according to a method described by Murray et al. Nucl. Acids Res. 8 4321 1980 . PCR was carried out with the genomic DNA as a template and the primers synthesized above. As a result a DNA fragment of approximately 540 bp was obtained which was deduced as part of the MTA gene. The PCR was carried out with TaKaRa Ex Taq Takara Shuzo Co. Ltd. as a DNA polymerase and under reaction conditions as instructed in the manual of TaKaRa Ex Taq. The DNA fragment was cloned with plasmid pT7Blue T Vector Novagen . Its base sequence was determined using ABI PRISM Dye Terminator Cycle Sequencing Ready Reaction Kit Perkin Elmer Inc. and ABI 310 DNA Sequencer Perkin Elmer Inc. . The base sequence labeled as SEQ ID NO 5 is shown in the sequence list.

The genomic DNA of KNK08 18 was completely digested with a restriction enzyme EcoRI FbaI NcoI or SphI. Digestion products thus obtained were intermolecularly cyclized by using T4DNA ligase Takara Shuzo Co. Ltd. . Using this cyclic compound as a template the whole base sequence of the MTA gene was determined on the genomic DNA by the inverse PCR technique Nucl. Acids Res. 16 8186 1988 referring to the partial base sequence information of the MTA gene determined above. The PCR was carried out with TaKaRa LA Taq with GC buffer Takara Shuzo Co. Ltd. under reaction conditions as instructed in the manual of TaKaRa LA Taq with GC buffer. In the sequence list the base sequence thus determined is shown as SEQ ID NO 2. The amino acid sequence encoded by the base sequence is shown as SEQ ID NO 1 in the sequence list.

Based on the base sequence thus determined in Example 8 a primer 3 SEQ ID NO 6 and primer 4 SEQ ID NO 7 are synthesized. The primer 3 had NdeI site added at a site corresponding to the initiation condon of the MTA gene. The primer 4 had EcoRI site added at a site right after the termination condon of the MTA gene. PCR was carried out using as a template the genomic DNA of KNK08 18 obtained in Example 2 and these primers. Thereby double strand DNA with NdeI site at the initiation condon of the MTA gene and with EcoRI site right after the termination condon thereof. The PCR was carried out with TaKaRa LA Taq with GC buffer Takara Shuzo Co. Ltd. under reaction conditions as instructed in the manual of TaKaRa LA Taq with GC buffer. The DNA was digested with NdeI and EcoRI and inserted between the NdeI recognizing site and EcoRI recognizing site in the downstream of a lac promoter of a plasmid pUCNT WO94 03613 . Thereby a recombinant vector pNTMTA was obtained.

Using the recombinant vector pNTMTA thus obtained in Example 9 HB101 Takara Shuzo Co. Ltd. was transformed thereby obtaining a recombinant HB101 pNTMTA . On Oct. 5 2004 the transformant HB101 pNTMTA thus obtained was deposited with Accession No. FERM P 20238 at the International Patent Organism Depository IPOD of the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology whose address is Chuodairoku 1 1 1 Higashi Tsukuba shi Ibaragi Prefecture Japan Post Code 305 8566 .

Into a flask in which substrates that is 300 mg of 7 methoxy 2 tetralone and 309.4 mg of S phenethylamine were added in advance 3 ml of the cell dispersion solution 3.7 mg of pyridoxal phosphate and 3 mL of a 1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.8 were introduced. The whole volume was adjusted to 30 mL by adding deionized water therein. This was reacted at 30 C. for 24 hours with stirring. After the reaction is completed 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin thus produced in the reaction mixture was analyzed by HPLC with the conditions described below. This showed that 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin was produced with a conversion rate of 85 and it had a S configuration and optical purity of 96.7 e.e.

In the same manner as in Example 12 a cell dispersion solution was prepared. Into a flask in which substrates that is 900 mg of 1 benzyl 3 pyrrolidinone and 928.2 mg of S phenethylamine were added in advance 3 ml of the cell dispersion solution 3.7 mg of pyridoxal phosphate and 3 mL of a 1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.8 were introduced. The whole volume was adjusted to 30 mL by adding deionized water therein. This was reacted at 30 C. for 16 hours with stirring. After the reaction is completed 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine thus produced in the reaction mixture was analyzed via HPLC with the conditions described below. This showed that 1 benzyl 3 aminopyrrolidine was produced with a conversion rate of 75.1 and it had a S configuration and optical purity of 79.2 e.e.

After basified with sodium carbonate of an appropriate amount and derivatized with Z chloride the reaction mixture was analyzed with the following conditions.

In the same manner as in Example 12 a cell dispersion solution was prepared. Into a flask in which substrates that is 504.6 mg of 1 phenyl 3 butanone and 618.8 mg of S phenethylamine were added in advance 3 ml of the cell dispersion solution 3.7 mg of pyridoxal phosphate and 3 mL of a 1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.8 were introduced. The whole volume was adjusted to 30 mL by adding deionized water therein. This was reacted at 30 C. for 16 hours with stirring. After the reaction is completed 1 phenyl 3 butylamine thus produced in the reaction mixture was analyzed in the manner described below. This showed that 1 phenyl 3 butylamine was produced with a conversion rate of 68 and it had a S configuration and optical purity of 95.8 e.e.

After basified with sodium carbonate of an appropriate amount and derivatized with acetic anhydride the reaction mixture was analyzed with the following conditions.

In the same manner as in Example 12 a cell dispersion solution was prepared. Into a flask in which substrates that is 100 mg of racemic 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin and 62 mg of pyruvic acid were added in advance 3 ml of the cell dispersion solution 1.2 mg of pyridoxal phosphate and 1 mL of a 1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.0 were introduced. The whole volume was adjusted to 10 mL by adding deionized water therein. This was reacted at 30 C. for 21 hours with stirring. After the reaction is completed the reaction mixture was analyzed in the same manner as in Example 12. This showed that 7 methoxy 2 aminotetralin was produced with a survival rate of 44 and it had a R configuration and optical purity of 100 e.e.

Into a flask in which substrates that is 600 mg of 2 heptanone and 955.1 mg of S phenethylamine were added in advance 3 ml of the cell dispersion solution 3.7 mg of pyridoxal phosphate and 3 mL of a 1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.8 were introduced. The whole volume was adjusted to 30 mL by adding deionized water therein. This was reacted at 30 C. for 16 hours with stirring. After the reaction is completed 2 mL of the reaction mixture was mixed with 200 L of 40 sodium hydroxide aqueous solution. Then extraction was carried out with 4 mL of tert butylmethylether thereby obtaining an extraction solution which was then analyzed in the following manner. This showed that 2 aminoheptane was produced with a conversion rate of 47 and it had a S configuration and optical purity of 98.8 e.e.

After basified with sodium carbonate of an appropriate amount and derivatized with dinitrobenzoyl chloride the reaction mixture was analyzed with the following conditions.

In the same manner as in Example 16 a cell dispersion solution was prepared. Into a flask in which substrates that is 900 mg of 1 Boc 3 pyrrolidinone and 883 mg of S phenethylamine were added in advance 3 ml of the cell dispersion solution 3.7 mg of pyridoxal phosphate and 3 mL of a 1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.8 were introduced. The whole volume was adjusted to 30 mL by adding deionized water therein. This was reacted at 30 C. for 8 hours with stirring. After the reaction is completed 0.1 mL of the reaction mixture was mixed with 30 L of 40 sodium hydroxide aqueous solution. Then extraction was carried out with 1 mL of ethyl acetate thereby obtaining an extraction solution which was then analyzed in the following manner. This showed that 1 Boc 3 aminopyrrolidine was produced with a conversion rate of 82 and it had a S configuration and optical purity of 99.4 e.e.

After basified with sodium carbonate of an appropriate amount and derivatized with dinitrobenzoyl chloride the reaction mixture was analyzed with the following conditions.

In the same manner as in Example 16 a cell dispersion solution was prepared. Into a flask in which substrates that is 900 mg of 1 Boc 3 piperidinone and 821 mg of S phenethylamine were added in advance 3 ml of the cell dispersion solution 3.7 mg of pyridoxal phosphate and 3 mL of a 1M potassium phosphate buffer pH 6.8 were introduced. The whole volume was adjusted to 30 mL by adding deionized water therein. This was reacted at 30 C. for 5 hours with stirring. After the reaction is completed 0.2 mL of the reaction mixture was mixed with 50 L of 40 sodium hydroxide aqueous solution. Then extraction was carried out with 1 mL of ethyl acetate thereby obtaining an extraction solution which was then analyzed in the following manner.

This showed that 1 Boc 3 aminopiperidine was produced with a conversion rate of 83 and it had a S configuration and optical purity of 99.9 e.e.

After basified with sodium carbonate of an appropriate amount and derivatized with dinitrobenzoyl chloride the reaction mixture was analyzed with the following conditions.

