---

title: Authenticatable displayed content
abstract: Embodiments include a method, a computing device, and a computer program product. An embodiment provides a method implemented in a computing environment. The method includes receiving an indication of a selected watermark. The method also includes incorporating a human-perceivable manifestation of the selected watermark in each visual area of at least two human-visual areas displaying an output of an authorized program running in the computing environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08555396&OS=08555396&RS=08555396
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08555396
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060831
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s .

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States Patent application entitled HANDLING MASQUERADING ELEMENTS naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud William Henry Mangione Smith John D. Rinaldo Jr and Lowell L. Wood Jr as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 515 495 filed Aug. 31 2006. For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States Patent application entitled SCREENING FOR MASQUERADING CONTENT naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud William Henry Mangione Smith John D. Rinaldo Jr and Lowell L. Wood Jr as inventors U.S. application Ser. No 11 515 375 filed Aug. 31 2006.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003 available at http www.uspto.gov web offices com sol og 2003 week 11 patbene.htm. The present applicant entity has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant entity understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing applicant entity understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence applicant entity is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications as set forth above but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

An embodiment provides a method implemented in a computing environment. The method includes receiving an indication of a selected watermark. The method also includes incorporating a human perceivable manifestation of the selected watermark in each visual area of at least two human visual areas displaying an output of an authorized program running in the computing environment. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method implemented in a computing environment. The method includes receiving an indication of a selected watermark and restricting access to the selected watermark to an authorized program running in the computing environment. The method also includes incorporating a human perceivable manifestation of the selected watermark in each visual area of at least two human visual areas displaying an output of an authorized program running in the computing environment. The method may include suppressing a visual area displaying an output that does not include the selected watermark in response to a received a human initiated input. The method may further include automatically suppressing a visual area displaying an output that does not include the selected watermark. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a computing device. The computing device includes an information store configured by computer program that includes computer program instructions. The computer program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computer processor. The process including receiving an indication of a selected watermark and allowing a control program privileges in the selected watermark. The process further including associating human perceivable manifestation of the selected watermark with each visual area of at least two visual areas generated for a human viewable display of an output of the operating system. The computing device may further include a display surface operable to display each visual area of at least two visual areas generated for a human viewing of an output of the operating system. The computing device may also include a user interface operable to receive an indication of the selected watermark in response to a user action. In addition to the foregoing other computing device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computing device of a computing environment. The process includes receiving an indication of a selected watermark and allowing an operating system privileges in the selected watermark. The process also includes associating a visible manifestation of the selected watermark with each visual area of at least two human visual areas generated for displaying an output of the operating system. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method implemented in a computing environment. The method includes receiving a designation of an individualized digital identifier. The method also includes associating a human perceptible form of the designated individualized digital identifier with each element of a group of human perceivable elements displayed by the computing environment. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a method implemented in a computing environment. The method includes receiving a designation of an individualized digital identifier and restricting access to the designated individualized digital identifier to a trusted program. The method also includes associating a human perceptible form of the designated individualized digital identifier with each element of a group of human perceivable elements displayed in response to the trusted program by the computing environment. The method may include scanning an element displayed by the computing environment for a presence of the designated individualized digital identifier and broadcasting a human recognizable notification if the individualized digital identifier is not associated with the element. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a computing device. The computing device includes a display operable to visually present each element of the group of elements to a human user and an information store configurable by a computer program. The computer program includes instructions operable to perform a process in a processor. The process includes receiving a designation of an individualized digital identifier and limiting access to the designated individualized digital identifier to an application programming interface callable by a privileged code. The process also includes associating a human perceptible form of the designated individualized digital identifier with each element of a group of elements displayed in response to a program running in the computing device. In addition to the foregoing other computing device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computing device. The process includes receiving a designation of an individualized digital identifier and restricting access to the designated individualized digital identifier to an operating system program. The process also includes associating a human perceptible form of the designated individualized digital identifier with each human perceivable element of a group of elements displayed in response to the operating system program of the computing device. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a method. The method includes receiving an instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. The method also includes determining if the instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark. The method further includes initiating an action with respect to the instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content the action being responsive to the determining. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a computing device. The computing device includes an information store configured by a computer program that includes computer program instructions. The computer program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computer processor. The process includes receiving an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. The process also includes determining if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark. The process further includes initiating an action with respect to the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content the action being responsive to the determining. In addition to the foregoing other computing device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computing device of a computing environment. The process includes receiving an instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. The process also includes determining if the instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark. The process further includes initiating an action with respect to the instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content in response to the determining. The computer readable signal bearing medium may include a computer storage medium. The computer readable signal bearing medium may include a communication medium. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a method implemented in a computing environment. The method includes receiving an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. The method also includes determining if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark. If the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content does not include an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark the method includes displaying a human understandable notification reflecting an absence of a digital watermark. In addition to the foregoing other computing device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a computing device. The computing device includes means for receiving an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. The computing device also includes means for determining if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark. The computing device further includes means for displaying a human understandable notification reflecting an absence of a digital watermark if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content does not include an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark. In addition to the foregoing other computing device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computing device of a computing environment. The process includes receiving an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. The process also includes determining if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark. If the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content does not include an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark the process further includes displaying a human understandable notification reflecting an absence of a digital watermark. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a method implemented in a computing environment that includes a system digital watermark. A human perceptible manifestation of the system digital watermark being incorporatable in a displayable content provided by a program running in the computing environment. The method includes receiving digital data that includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap. The method also includes determining if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap having an indicium of a digital watermark. If the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap having an indicium of a digital watermark the method includes establishing a correlation between the indicium of a digital watermark and the system digital watermark and displaying a human understandable information responsive to the determined correlation between the indicium of the digital watermark and the system digital watermark. If the determined measure of a correlation is below a preselected level the method may include exposing to the program running in the computing environment the digital data that includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap. If the determined measure of a correlation is above a preselected level the method may include isolating from the program running in the computing environment the digital data that includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable signal bearing medium bearing program instructions. The program instructions being operable to perform a process in a computing device. The process includes receiving digital data that includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap. The process also includes determining if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap having an indicium of a digital watermark. If the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap having an indicium of a digital watermark the process includes establishing a correlation between the indicium of a digital watermark and a system digital watermark of a computing environment that includes the computing device and displaying a human understandable information responsive to the determined correlation between the indicium of the digital watermark and the system digital watermark. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a computing device. The computing device includes means for receiving digital data that includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap. The computing device also includes means for determining if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap having an indicium of a digital watermark. The computing device further includes means for establishing a correlation between the indicium of a digital watermark and a system digital watermark of a computing environment that includes the computing device. The computing device also includes means for displaying a human understandable information responsive to the determined correlation between the indicium of the digital watermark and the system digital watermark. In addition to the foregoing other computing device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art. In an embodiment an information store may include a computer storage media. In a further embodiment an information store may include a group of digital information storage devices. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory device.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as the computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers server computers game server computers web server computers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

In an embodiment a watermark may include a digital watermark. In another embodiment a watermark may include a visually and or audibly reproducible pattern of bits useful to a human user in authentication of a content and or differentiation of one content from another content.

In an embodiment of the integration operation the at least two human visual areas may be displayed simultaneously and or sequentially. In another embodiment each visual area of the at least two human visual areas may be displayed on and or from a single physical surface. In an further embodiment a sequential display of the at least two human visual areas may including sequential displays temporally separated for example by seconds minutes hours days and or weeks. For example the visual areas may include at least two windows that are sequentially displayed from at least a substantially portion of a physical area of a flat screen panel display. In a further embodiment the human perceivable manifestation of the selected watermark is human visually discernable in each human visual area displayed by an output of the authorized program.

In embodiments a watermark may share a system and or environment aspect such as a background color a style and or a font etc. including incorporation through duplication or transparency. A watermark may include a polymorphic variation within a system and or environment and or other domain such as a workgroup or network. A watermark may include a shared and or a variable aspect in combination with others. A watermark may be selected and or generated in a manner to make it at least substantially unique by using one or more unique aspects and or identifiers associated with a machine system account or user etc. A watermark may be user invisible and may be user queryable displayable on user request. A watermark may be recognizable by code including modules that take action e.g. warn or do not present items with watermark imitations especially those that a user might mistake for legitimate.

In an embodiment of the integration operation the selected watermark may be incorporated in a window by an operating system and or the authorized program. In another embodiment the selected watermark may be visually prominent and located proximate to a feature of a window such as next to a yes and or a no button of a dialog box. In another embodiment the watermark may include a watermark displayed proximate to or within a dialog box during a mouseover of a genuine dialog box. In a further embodiment a dialog box changes color and or causes a script display such as a genuine button during a mouseover. A color change may be responsive to a trust level of the program that caused display of the dialog box. In another embodiment the operating system causes a user visually differentiable display during a mouseover of an image such as a jpeg gif tiff and or a bitmap based image when compared to that displayed during a mouseover of an operating system generated dialog box and or a dialog box button.

In another embodiment the selected watermark may be positioned at any suitable location with respect to a visual area and or may have any suitable degree of conspicuousness. For example the selected watermark may be position with respect to a button a form a frame a window title bar and or an object title bar. A level of conspicuousness may be under a user or a configuration control. For example a novice user might want a super secure setting that placed a visually conspicuous watermark in all the buttons while an experience user might opt for an embodiment in which a subtle watermark is placed in the corner of the window. In a further embodiment the selected watermark may include a visual watermark an audio watermark a tactile and or hepatic watermark.

In a further embodiment a watermark may include a window such as a popup window displayed at least partially contemporaneously with another window and or on top of the window. In an embodiment a watermark may include at least a portion of a window another window displayed in a visual combination with the window and or on top of the window.

Returning to an alternative embodiment of the operational flow is includes an operational flow A. After a start operation the operational flow A moves to the determination operation . The determination operation receives an indication of a selected watermark. The integration operation incorporates incorporating a human perceivable manifestation of the selected watermark in each visual area of at least two human visual areas displaying an output of an authorized program running in the computing environment. The operational flow then proceeds to an end operation.

A receiver module of the computing device may receive an indication of a selected watermark . The indication may be responsive to an action by a human user communicated by the human user interface and or responsive to a selection from a watermark library by a program such as an operating system and or an application program . For purposes of illustration a human perceivable manifestation A of the selected watermark is illustrated as two concentric circles with the name of a user Bob followed by Watermark disposed between the concentric circles. In an alternative embodiment the selected watermark may be a watermark generated by a watermark generation program that is a part of an ancillary module . An access restrictor module may restrict access to the selected watermark to an authorized program running in the computing environment such as the operating system and or an application program . The operating system may incorporate a human perceivable manifestation of the selected watermark in each visual area of at least two human visual areas and displaying an output of an authorized program running in the computing environment. The user Bob will know that a window displayed by the display is authentic or genuine when the window includes the selected watermark Bob s Watermark. Conversely the user Bob will likewise know that a window not bearing the selected watermark Bob s Watermark was not outputted by an authorized program. A non watermarked window or a wrongly watermarked window may be bitmap spoofing a legitimate window or may be a window outputted by an authorized program such a malware program. The absence of the selected watermark is expected to aid the user Bob in deciding not to interact with a non watermarked window and thus not clicking on the non watermarked window or not entering personal information in boxes displayed in a the non watermarked window that may be linked to malware.

In an embodiment the computing device of includes an information store configured by computer program that includes computer program instructions. The computer program may be included in the operating system and or an application program . The computer program instructions are operable to perform a process in a computer processor. The process includes receiving an indication of a selected watermark illustrated as the human perceivable manifestation A of the selected watermark . The process also includes allowing a control program privileges in the selected watermark. In another embodiment the allowing a control program privileges may be implemented using the access restrictor module . The process further includes associating a human perceivable manifestation of the selected watermark with each visual area of at least two visual areas and generated for a human viewable display of an output of the operating system.

In a further embodiment the process including receiving an indication of a selected watermark further includes a process including receiving an indication of a selected watermark. The selected watermark including at least one of a user originated watermark a user selected watermark a watermark selected by a user from at least two watermarks a watermark selected by a user from a library of watermarks that includes at least two human differentiable watermarks a watermark selected from at least two human differentiable polymorphic watermarks a watermark generated in response to an algorithm and or a watermark selected from at least two human differentiable watermarks in response to an algorithm. In another embodiment the process including allowing a control program privileges in the selected watermark further includes a process including allowing a control program full privileges in the selected watermark and limited privileges in the selected watermark for all other programs. In a further embodiment the process including allowing a control program privileges in the selected watermark further includes a process including allowing at least one of an operating system a database management system and or a communications protocol privileges in the selected watermark.

In an embodiment the process including allowing a control program privileges in the selected watermark further includes a process including allowing at least one of an operating system a database management system and or a communications protocol privileges in the selected watermark. In another embodiment the process including allowing a control program privileges in the selected watermark further includes a process including allowing a control program full privileges in the selected watermark and another program a limited privilege in the selected watermark. In a further embodiment the process including allowing a control program privileges in the selected watermark further includes a process including allowing a control program full privileges in the selected watermark and another program a read only privilege in the selected watermark. In another embodiment the process including allowing a control program privileges in the selected watermark further includes a process including allowing a control program full privileges in the selected watermark and denying another program privileges in the selected watermark.

In an embodiment the computing device further includes a display surface operable to display each visual area of at least two visual areas and generated for a human viewing of an output of the operating system . In another embodiment the computing device further includes a human user interface operable to receive an indication of the selected watermark in response to a user action.

In an alternative embodiment the computer program instructions allowing an operating system privileges in the selected watermark further includes allowing an operating system full privileges in the selected watermark. In another alternative embodiment the computer program instructions allowing an operating system privileges in the selected watermark further includes allowing an operating system full privileges in the selected watermark and allowing another program limited privileges in the selected watermark . In a further embodiment the computer program instructions the allowing an operating system privileges in the selected watermark further includes allowing an operating system full privileges in the selected watermark and allowing another program read only privileges in the selected watermark .

In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

In an embodiment the individualized digital identifier may include any individualized digital identifier useful to an individual human user in recognizing an authentic nature of a content and or in differentiating between an authentic content and a false misleading and or a spoofed content. In another embodiment the individualized digital identifier may include a watermark. In a further embodiment individualized digital identifier may include an individualized distinguishing tool. In an embodiment the individualized digital identifier may include a relatively unique individualized digital identifier. The unique individualized digital identifier may include a semi unique individualized digital identifier may include and or an individualized digital identifier not likely to be at least substantial duplicated by a predetermined percentage of human users. For example an individualized digital identifier may include an individualized digital identifier not likely to be at least substantially duplicated by no more than 10 of other digital identifiers. In another embodiment the individualized digital identifier may include an individualized digital identifier having at least one of a visual sound tactile and or haptic aspect.

Returning to an alternative embodiment of the operational flow is includes an operational flow A. After a start operation the operational flow moves to an acquiring operation . The acquiring operation receives a designation of an individualized digital identifier. A relationship operation associates a human perceptible form of the designated individualized digital identifier with each element of a group of human perceivable elements displayed by the computing environment. In an embodiment the relation operation respectfully associates a human perceptible form of the designated individualized digital identifier with each element of a group of human perceivable elements when both the designated individualized digital identifier and each element of a group of human perceivable elements are displayed.

The computing device also includes an information store configurable by a computer program. The computer program may be included in an operating system an application program and or another program. The computer program may be a stand alone program. The computer program includes instructions operable to perform a process in a processor . The process includes receiving a designation of an individualized digital identifier. The designation may be received by a receiver module from any source including from a user via the human user interface a generator module and or a selector module. In an embodiment the process including receiving a designation of an individualized digital identifier further includes a process including receiving a designation of at least one of an individualized digital visual identifier and or an individualized digital audio identifier. The process also includes limiting access to the designated individualized digital identifier to an application programming interface API s callable by a privileged code. The limiting access may include limiting at least one of a read a write and or an update access. The privileged code may include at least one of an operating system an application program and or an application program granted an access right by at least one of a user and or the operating system. The process further includes associating a human perceptible form of the designated individualized digital identifier with each element of a group of elements displayed in response to a program running in the computing device. The visual display includes a display operable to present visually each element of the group of elements to a human user.

The visual display may include visual display surface operable to display an output of a program running in the computing device. The display surface is also operable to visually present a group of elements to a human user by at least one human perceivable area illustrated as a human visual display area . The computing environment illustrates an example where the Mario Brother icon constitutes a human perceptible form of the designated digital component received by the acquiring operation of operational flow of . The display area is illustrated as including a Mario Brother A associated with the display area and a Mario Brother B associated with a tree . The display area is also illustrated as including a truck without the designated digital component associated with it.

In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

The operational flow also includes an inspection operation . The inspection operation determines if the instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content having an indicium of a digital watermark. The operational flow further includes an effectuation operation . In response to the inspection operation the effectuation operation initiates an action with respect to the instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. The operational flow moves to an end operation.

The operational flow may be performed proximate in time to the computing environment receiving the instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content proximate in time to the computing environment displaying a content responsive to the instruction operable to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content or at a time intermediate to the receiving the instruction and the displaying a content.

In another embodiment the determining process further includes a process that determines if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to an individualized digital watermark associated with the computing device. In a further embodiment the determining process further includes a process that determines if the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to an individualized digital watermark associated with the computing device. The digital watermark may include at least one of a user originated digital watermark a user selected digital watermark a digital watermark selected by a user from at least two digital watermarks a digital watermark selected by a user from a library of digital watermarks that includes at least two human differentiable digital watermarks a digital watermark selected from at least two human differentiable polymorphic digital watermarks a digital watermark generated in response to an algorithm and or a digital watermark selected from at least two human differentiable digital watermarks in response to an algorithm.

In an embodiment the process that receives an instruction further includes a process including receive an instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content includes at least two instruction that in a combination create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. In another embodiment the process that includes initiating an action further includes a process including quarantining the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content from a program associated with the computing environment. In a further embodiment the process that includes initiating an action further includes a process including allowing at least one of an operating system a database management system and or a communications protocol privileges to the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content.

In an embodiment the process that initiates an action further includes a process including allowing at least one program full privileges to the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content and limiting another program s privileges to the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content. In another embodiment the process that initiates an action further includes a process including exposing the instruction to create a visual presentation corresponding to a bitmap content to a program associated with the computing environment.

In operation for illustrative purposes a user named Bill looking at a visual display surface of a display device may see three elements that include a photograph of a woman sleeping a window of his bank s home page with a watermark and a window of his bank s home page without a watermark. While the three elements might be displayed at least simultaneously in a more likely example the elements may be displayed sequentially as Bill uses his computer over time. The photograph of a woman like most personal photographs would not expected to include a digital watermark. When Bill views the photograph of woman an action is initiated that displays a popup box indicating that the photograph does not contain a digital watermark. This indication reflects Bill s expected property of the personal photograph. When Bill views the window of his bank s home page with a watermark he may expect to see a watermark. However an action is initiated that displays a popup box warning Bill that visual presentation of his bank s home page includes a spoofed watermark. Bill may use the information provided by the popup box to avoid any interaction with the visual presentation of his bank s home page. When Bill views the window of his bank s home page without a watermark he may not notice that his expected digital watermark is absent. An action is initiated that displays a popup box warning Bill that visual presentation of his bank s home page does not include a watermark. Bill may use the information provided by the popup box to avoid any interaction with the visual presentation of his bank s home page.

In an embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In a further embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communication medium .

At the analysis operation a correlation is established between the indicium of a digital watermark and the system digital watermark. The correlation may be established to any desired degree or measure. For example a correlation may be established when there is an at least substantial correlation i.e. such as a correspondence level of at least 50 between the indicium of a digital watermark and the system digital watermark. In another example a correlation may be established when there is a confidence level of at least 30 . In another example a correlation may be established when there is a correspondence level of at least 80 between the indicium of a digital watermark and the system digital watermark. A broadcast operation displays a human understandable information responsive to the determined correlation between the indicium of the digital watermark and the system digital watermark. For example the broadcast operation may display a dialog box indicating the digital data includes a visual presentation spoofing the system digital watermark. The operational flow the moves to the end operation.

In an embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a computer storage medium . In another embodiment the computer readable signal bearing medium includes a communications medium .

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the various components and elements disclosed herein and in the drawings as well as the various steps and substeps disclosed herein and in the drawings may be incorporated together in different combinations to implement embodiments and enhance possible benefits and advantages. The exemplary system apparatus and computer program product embodiment disclosed herein including and along with other components devices know how skill and techniques that are known in the art have a capability of implementing and practicing methods and process illustrated in and . It is to be understood that the methods and processes can be incorporated in one or more different types of computer program products with a carrier medium having program instructions encoded thereon. However it is to be further understood by those skilled in the art that other systems apparatus and technology may be used to implement and practice such methods and processes.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

