---

title: Method and apparatus using fast electronic switching for multi-channelizing a single-channel radar system
abstract: According to typical practice of an inventive radar system, a switching device is capable of activating a receiver array one at a time so that when a receiver is activated the remaining receivers are inactivated. A switch control circuit is pre-programmed with control logic that is based on the counting of radio pulses that are emitted by a signal generator (for transmission by a transmitter). The control logic dictates, via the switching device, the rapid sequential cycling through of the arrayed receivers so that each receiver is activated for the same prescribed period of time, which corresponds to a pre-programmed number N of emitted radio pulses wherein N=[the number of frequencies in the wave table]×[the number of pulse integrations in the wave table]×[1 polarization or 2 polarizations]. Radio pulse input from the receivers is interleaved in a manner associable with individual receivers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07557747&OS=07557747&RS=07557747
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07557747
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060405
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 672 561 filing date 13 Apr. 2005 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Method And Apparatus Using Fast Electronic Switching For Multi Channelizing a Single Channel Radar System joint inventors Jerry Rosson Smith Jr. Donald G. Morgan and Paul E. Ransom.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to radar more particularly to apparatuses and methods that employ one or more radar receiver channels for effecting monostatic or bistatic radar.

Both single channel and multi channel radar systems have been used effectively for a variety of applications. The term radar is acronymous for radio detection and ranging. A single channel radar system describes a single conveyance path of radio signals from a radar receiver element to a radar data storage device. Many applications require plural e.g. multiple radar receiver elements typically the radar receiver elements are selectively arranged as a radar array. Radar arrays have traditionally been designed from the start with multiple receiver channels in parallel wherein each receiver channel describes a separate conveyance path of radio signals from a radar receiver element to a radar data storage device. These multi channel radar systems are usually large and expensive due to the duplication of the receiver components e.g. the signal conditioners and amplifiers that are connected to a receiver horn antenna . Until the present the modification of a single channel radar system into a radar array system has been problematical and has not been favored practice.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide a practical and economical radar array system that utilizes a single radar receiver channel.

The present invention uniquely combines a switching circuit with a single channel radar device core radar system so as to in effect convert a single channel radar system to a plural channel e.g. multi channel radar system. The present invention can be practiced for either bistatic or monostatic radar systems. Inventive practice typically provides for use in association with a single channel radar device single polarized or dual polarized a fast electronic switching system that is combined with a radar receiver array. As often practiced the inventive methodology constructs a radar array system from a single channel core radar system by introducing quick switching between receiver array horns the quick switch being effected by means of counting range gate signals transmitter pulses . Thus a single channel radar system that is capable of implementing one receiver element at a time is inventively modified into a multi channel radar system that is capable of implementing plural e.g. an array of many receiver elements one at a time but effectively at the same time.

Featured by the present invention is a switch control logic circuit and the direction thereby of switches to cycle through the receiver elements. The front end receiver apparatus functions as a radar array but plugs directly into a single channel radar device core radar system . Furthermore the inventive cycling through the receiver elements is typically characterized by great rapidity. The inventive switch control means electronically switches through the receiver array elements fast enough to permit clear imaging in post processing. An analogy can be drawn to the sleight of hand of a dexterous playing card trickster whose hand is quicker than the eye in a sense through its celerity and adroitness the present invention tricks a single input single output radar system into becoming a single input plural output e.g. multiple output radar system. Although the receiver array elements are actually sending signals sequentially rather than simultaneously they are doing so at such a rapid rate that effective simultaneity of the respective signals is achieved.

According to typical embodiments of the present invention an array of receiver elements feeds into a bank of fast electronic switches. The electronic switches control as to which receiver element is open. The electronic switches are alternatively opened and closed based on a switch control logic circuit which counts each individual radar pulse from the transmitter each such transmitted radar pulse is also referred to herein as the range gate signal or transmitter output signal. Once a predetermined number of pulses is encountered wherein the number of pulses equals the number of integrations times the number of frequency steps or wherein the number of pulses equals the number of integrations times the number of frequency steps times the number of polarizations the switch control logic circuit closes the current receiver path and opens the next consecutive receiver path. This switching which occurs very quickly typically within 800 nanoseconds allows the individual elements of the radar array to be individually observed and fed into the single channel of the radar system and subsequently stored in the data file. The observations from the array elements are interleaved in the data file. In data translation this interleaved data can be extracted into sequential data files for each element thereby simplifying the post processing data analysis.

A typical inventive radar array system comprises a switch control logic circuit plural electronic switches and plural receiver elements. This inventive radar array system plugs directly into the existing single channel of the core radar system. Inventive practice is thus versatile as most single channel radar systems can be inventively converted into a multi channel radar array without direct modification of the core radar system. Moreover an inventive radar array system is inherently less complicated and less expensive than a from the ground up multi channel radar array system because the only duplication of components in inventive practice is in the receiver apertures. The present invention therefore permits radar arrays to be fielded more quickly and more economically than can the conventional multi channel radar arrays.

The principles of the present invention are applicable to any of diverse types of energetic communication wherein the term energetic communication is broadly defined as any system process or activity involving the conveying of a signal or signals and wherein the term signal is broadly defined as any form of energy either electromagnetic e.g. radio or light or acoustic that carries information or is otherwise informative. In accordance with typical practice of the present invention a method for performing energetic communication comprises emitting plural energy pulses and activating in succession a plurality of energy reception devices so that each energy reception device is activated in turn for a duration commensurate with a selected number of emitted energy pulses. Typically the inventive method further comprises storing data so as to be associable with individual energy reception devices the data being based on emitted energy pulses that are received by the energy reception devices. The energy reception devices are activated in succession for one or more e.g. many cycles of activations each duration being greater than or equal to 800 nanoseconds each energy reception device being activated for the same duration.

Examples of inventive applications involving electromagnetic energy include radar radio energy lidar light energy and telecommunications radio energy or light energy . For instance for typical radar applications of the inventive method the energy pulses are radio pulses the energy reception devices are receivers and one or more transmitters transmit emitted radio energy. Some inventive applications such as sonar involve acoustic sound energy. For typical sonar applications of the inventive method the energy pulses are sound pulses the energy reception devices are hydrophones and one or more projectors emit sound energy.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Reference is now made to which is a flow diagram of a typical radar array system in accordance with the present invention. Among its novel functions and aspects as typically practiced the present invention uniquely provides for i the counting of the transmitted pulses and ii the adjustment of the receiver horn switching system in accordance with the counting of the transmitted pulses.

Core radar system emits and receives pulses of electromagnetic radiation e.g. microwaves or other radio waves. Core radar system includes a signal generator for emitting pulses a transmitter clock for timing the emitted pulses a receiver clock for synchronizing the received pulses with the emitted pulses and a data recorder for recording data associated with the received pulses . Receiver dock and transmitter dock are synchronized to ensure the validity of the data received by the data recorder .

Core radar system has information storage capability such as provided by data recorder which not only includes a memory for storing digital data but also includes means for digitizing the analog signals received from the antennae . This stored digital data can be processed at a later time by a separate machine having a processor and a memory e.g. computer shown in . Instead of subsequently processing the data some inventive embodiments provide for immediate receipt of data and processing thereof by a computer such as one that is included in the core radar system . Data recorder is a data storage device that is capable of receiving a single data stream of electromagnetic signals. In effect the inventive methodology imparts plural channel capability to the single channel data storage device.

Signal generator e.g. frequency synthesizer of core radar system emits an Ainitialization pulse to transmitter . Switch control circuit receives the Ainitialization pulse sets the pulse counter to zero Pulse Ctr 0 and re initializes the state of the switching system . Radar begins to work through the wave table. A wave table is an organized sequence of radar pulses that are emitted from core radar system s signal generator to the transmitter . During continuous operations the core radar system repeatedly passes through the wave table. Typically before each pass signal generator emits an initialization pulse called the A naught A pulse. Each transmission pulse in the wave table is processed in several phases including the phases referred to hereinbelow as Phase Phase and Phase . 

Signal generator of core radar system emits a transmitter output pulse for transmission to front end apparatus and to switch control circuit . In emitting the transmission pulse signal generator opens the range gate of a receiver horn . A range gate is a window in time when the radar system listens to a receiver horn the time corresponds with a fixed distance or range from the receiver . The longer is the delay in the range gate the farther is the range.

Front end apparatus includes a conditioner and an amplifier . The transmission pulse is conditioned and amplified by the front end and is transmitted via input line to the transmitter horn .

The transmission pulse is received by the switch control logic circuit via an input line . The switch control circuit counts the electromagnetic pulses emitted by the signal generator . Each emitted pulse that is received by the switch control circuit causes the switch control circuit to increment its pulse counter by one i.e. Pulse Ctr Pulse Ctr 1 . The switch control circuit then determines the appropriate receiver horn state based on the newly incremented pulse counter using the formula set forth in . NumFreq is the number of frequencies in the wave table. NumInte is the number of pulse integrations in the wave table. NumPole is the number of polarizations.

Each receiver horn is open for the same designated number of pulses which equals the product NumFreq NumInte NumPole . According to typical inventive practice in order to reduce system noise the signal is integrated over multiple consecutive pulses. These are referred to as pulse integrations. Polarization is determined by the direction of the electric field. NumPole is selected to be either one or two that is NumPole is one horizontal direction or one vertical direction or two both horizontal and vertical directions .

The switch control circuit adjusts the state of the switching system so that the output of the appropriate receiver horn is directed to the back end apparatus . According to typical inventive practice the switch control circuit causes the switching system to at least once cycle through antennae in turn for a predetermined duration e.g. greater than or equal to 800 nanoseconds so that each receiver antenna is activated receptive to incoming radio signals while the remaining receiver antennae are inactivated non receptive to incoming radio signals . The term cycle in this context refers to one complete performance of sequential activations through all of the receiver antennae of the receiver array upon the conclusion of a cycle switch control circuit returns switching system to the starting point viz. the sequentially first receiver of the next cycle. In each cycle receiver horns are activated by switching system in succession one receiver horn at a time each receiver horn being activated for a duration that accords with the counting of the emitted electromagnetic signals by switch control circuit .

The present invention is frequently practiced so that the antennae are cycled through repeatedly i.e. at least twice more typically numerous times the complete succession of events i.e. all of the activations in turn of receivers is repeated again and again continually and uniformly in the same order. The duration of activation for each receiver horn is the same and is equal to either i the product of the number of frequencies in said wave table times the number of pulse integrations in said wave table or ii the product of the number of frequencies in said wave table times the number of pulse integrations in said wave table times the number of polarizations the number of polarizations being either 1 or 2 .

The incident radar energy impinges on the receiver array . Similarly as the front end apparatus the back end apparatus includes a conditioner and an amplifier . The radar energy from the appropriate receiver horn is sent to the back end for signal conditioning and amplifying. The amplified and conditioned signal receiver input signal is then transmitted via line so as to be received by the core radar system and recorded by its data recorder . Included in the recorded data are the pulse number and the burst number which can be used in post processing to determine precisely to which receiver horn frequency polarization and integration number the recorded data corresponds.

The pulse signals received from the antenna array are interleaved by data recorder that is the input data from the receiver horns are arranged by data recorder in alternating levels sectors or blocks so that each level block sector carries a piece of a different data stream. In essence plural data recorder channels corresponding one to one to the plural receiver antenna horns are created by data recorder through time division multiplexing TDM of the radio signals that are carried thereto by receiver input line R. The input signals are interleaved so that each data recorder channel corresponds to a different receiver horn .

After the radar has passed through the wave table the radar begins again by emitting an Ainitialization pulse to the transmitter horn and the sequence repeats until interrupted by the operator.

With reference to the U.S. Navy s experimental 32 element dual polarized array of September 2004 cost approximately 100 k to implement not including the non recurring design and engineering costs. The inventive experimental system was capable of toggling through the receiver Rx horns of the linear array to provide SAR like data. The electronic switching control circuit controlled the states e.g. polarization and horn number of the receiver horns . Cross range mapping was performed in post processing wherein the phase relationship s between among receiver horns was were similar to that for conventional SAR Synthetic Aperture Radar systems.

Each of the receivers that were used in the two linear arrays of sixteen receivers each in the September 2004 inventive experimentation was an 8 18 GHz dual polarized receiver dual polarized quad ridged horn antenna type number 201187 4 manufactured by TECOM Industries Inc. located at 375 Conejo Ridge Avenue Thousand Oaks Calif. website www.tecom ind.com . A 2 18 GHz dual polarized transmitter dual polarized quad ridged horn antenna series DF240 model DP240 AB manufactured by Flann Microwave located at Dunmere Road Bodmin Cornwall PL31 2Ql UK and Baldwin Park 1 12 Alfred St. Ste. 300 Woburn Mass. website www.flann.com was used in the September 2004 inventive experimentation. The core radar system was a commercially available single channel radar unit manufactured by Lintek now owned by Aeroflex Incorporated 35 South Service Road Plainview N.Y. website www.aeroflex.com.

A commercial programmable circuit board was used for the switch control circuit . The programmable board was patched into the transmitter line isolated with one way opto isolators so that the programmable board would not corrupt the transmission signal . This circuit board could be reprogrammed at will whenever the number of receiver horns number of frequencies etc. was were adjusted. Any programmable electronic means can be used as the switch control circuitry in accordance with the present invention such as that which includes a programmable logic device or a processor e.g. microprocessor .

As shown in thirty two receiver horns were cycled through using cascading switches . The Robinson switch alternated between the A group of receiver horns by choosing switch and the B group of receiver horns by choosing switch . Group A switch and group B switch each alternated between two banks of eight horns each. The group A switch switch chose either switch or switch the group B switch switch chose either switch or switch . The inventors desired sixteen H pole horizontal pole receiver horns and sixteen V pole vertical pole receiver horns for this application accordingly group A consisting of banks A and A was H pole and group B consisting of banks B and B was V pole.

Front end apparatus and back end apparatus were powered by front end power supply and back end power supply respectively. Switching system was also provided with its own power supply viz. switch power supply S. Front end apparatus is shown in to include a signal conditioner an amplifier a directional coupler which is connected to the core radar system a detector a Robinson switch and a transmit module which is connected between Robinson switch and transmitter horn . Robinson switch chose between horizontal polarity and vertical polarity or both horizontal and vertical polarities of the radar energy as was transmitted by transmitter horn .

The multi level switching system illustrated in was designed in this manner mainly for cost saving reasons and in fact performed adequately but it is not suggested herein as representative of a preferred switching system configuration in accordance with the present invention. Preferred inventive practice is for the present invention s switching system to be as efficient as possible. Such efficiency would tend to be promoted by employment of as few switches and or switching levels as practicable perhaps by employing even a single electronic switching device.

According to generally preferred inventive practice it is important that the practitioner make sure that the switch control circuit is fast enough to a count the transmitter pulses b determine the necessary state of the switches and c transmit any adjustments to the switching system . In addition it is important for the practitioner to make sure that the switching system reacts sufficiently fast. If there is too much lag then the radar energy intended for the N 1 receiver horn will actually be circuited through the N receiver horn and hence the intendedly organized data stream will become disorganized. This guidance is particularly significant for radar sets that run extremely fast.

With reference to through the present invention can be practiced for either bistatic radar systems for example as shown in and or monostatic radar systems for example as shown in . bistatic radar and monostatic radar are more generally illustrative. The term bistatic as used herein is synonymous with the term multistatic. 

As shown in according to a typical bistatic application of the present invention the transmitter horn and the receiver array of receiver horns are situated at different locations. As shown in according to a typical monostatic application of the present invention the transmitter horn and the receiver array of receiver horns are situated at the same or approximately the same location. The separation distance between transmitter horn and a receiver horn is the range or baseline which is significant for bistatic radar and insignificant or nonexistent for monostatic radar. Angle LDA indicated in is the geometric elevation angle to transmitter at the base of a receiver horn . Grazing angle acute over indicated in is the elevation angle at the forward scatter location of the mean water level MWL of the forward scatter of the electromagnetic radiation e.g. radio waves from a receiver horn to transmitter horn . Angle LDA indicated in is the geometric elevation angle to transmitter at the base of a target . Grazing angle acute over indicated in is the elevation angle at the forward scatter location of the mean water level MWL of the forward scatter of the electromagnetic radiation e.g. radio waves from target to a receiver horn .

According to some inventive embodiments such as illustrated in measurements are made to map scattering from a sea surface. A proposed MASK Test 2 by the U.S. Navy will include more sea states 0 2 3 3 4 4 5 6 multiple wave directions 3 D laser profiling of waves effects with and without wind a wind generator such as wind generator shown in will be used a wider range of radar threat bands X and Ku . The proposed radar measurement will be for the X and Ku Bands 8 18 GHz . Wide bandwidth will allow down range imaging of sea surface providing time of flight information. An array of receivers will allow cross range imaging of the sea surface similar to an acoustic line array. This uniquely designed radar imaging system in accordance with the present invention can thus perform 2 D mapping of sea reflection.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

