---

title: Methods for adapting an automated cigarette making apparatus
abstract: Cigarettes are manufactured using modified automated cigarette making apparatus. Those cigarettes possess smokable rods having paper wrapping materials having additive materials applied thereto as patterns. The additive materials, which can have the forms of liquid or paste formulations, can be applied to the paper web using application apparatus possessing rollers. One of those rollers can have a series of pockets in its roll face to receive additive formulation from a reservoir and to define the pattern of the formulation on the paper. A radiant dryer can be used to dry the additive material that has been applied to the paper web. The radiant dryer can be located on one component of a two component assembly that is used to manufacture cigarettes. Spectrometric techniques can be used to ensure proper registration of the additive material on the cigarette rods so manufactured, and to ensure proper quality of those cigarettes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07409956&OS=07409956&RS=07409956
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 07409956
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061006
---
This application is a Divisional application of and claims benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 326 521 filed on Dec. 20 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 117 871 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to smoking articles and in particular to equipment materials and techniques used for the manufacture of those smoking articles. More specifically the present invention relates to the manufacture of cigarette rods and in particular to systems and methods for applying an additive material to desired locations of wrapping materials of cigarettes in an efficient effective and desired manner.

Smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco surrounded by a paper wrapper to form a cigarette rod smokable rod or a tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises plasticized cellulose acetate tow circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. Certain cigarettes incorporate filter elements comprising for example activated charcoal particles. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper. 

A cigarette is used by a smoker by lighting one end of that cigarette and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his or her mouth by drawing on the opposite end of the cigarette. During the time that the cigarette is not being drawn upon by the smoker the cigarette remains burning.

Numerous attempts have been made to control the manner that a cigarette burns when the cigarette is not being drawn upon. For example cigarette papers have been treated with various materials to cause cigarettes incorporating those papers to self extinguish during periods when those cigarettes are lit but are not being actively puffed. Certain treatment methods have involved applying materials to the paper in circumferential bands or longitudinal stripes creating areas that affect the burn rate of cigarettes incorporating that cigarette papers. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 030 963 to Cohn U.S. Pat. No. 4 146 040 to Cohn U.S. Pat. No. 4 489 738 to Simon U.S. Pat. No. 4 489 650 to Weinert and U.S. Pat. No. 4 615 345 to Durocher US Patent Application 2002 0185143 to Crooks et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 892 834 filed Jun. 27 2001. In addition numerous references disclose applying films to the paper wrapping materials of tobacco rods. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 1 909 924 to Schweitzer U.S. Pat. No. 4 607 647 to Dashley and U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 675 to Milford et al.

 Banded paper wrapping materials that are used for cigarette manufacture possess segments defined by the composition location and properties of the various materials within those wrapping materials. Numerous references contain disclosures suggesting various banded wrapping material configurations. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 1 996 002 to Seaman U.S. Pat. No. 2 013 508 to Seaman U.S. Pat. No. 4 452 259 to Norman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 417 228 to Baldwin et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 878 753 to Peterson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 878 754 to Peterson et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 198 537 to Bokelman et al. and PCT WO 02 37991. Methods for manufacturing banded type wrapping materials also have been disclosed. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 739 775 to Hampl Jr. et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 474 095 to Allen et al. and PCT WO 02 44700 and PCT WO 02 055294. Some of those references describe banded papers having segments of paper fibrous cellulosic material or particulate material adhered to a paper web. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 263 999 to Baldwin et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 417 228 to Baldwin et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 450 863 to Collins et al. and U.S. Patent Application 2002 0092621 to Suzuki. Methods for manufacturing cigarettes having treated wrapping materials are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. and PCT WO 02 19848.

Additive materials can be applied to cigarette paper wrapping materials during the time that those wrapping materials are being used for cigarette manufacture i.e. in a so called on line fashion . However water based formulations incorporating those additives and the paper wrappers to which the additives are applied have a tendency to remain wet when the additive treated wrapper reaches the garniture section of the cigarette making machine. Consequently for example the additive materials that are applied to a paper web tend to rub off of the paper and onto components of the finger rail assembly that is located near the garniture end of the suction rod conveyor of the cigarette making machine and onto the tongue and folder components that are located in the garniture region of the cigarette making machine. A build up of additive material on certain regions of the cigarette making machine can cause cigarette rod formation problems paper breaks and machine downtime for cleaning. Such an undesirable tendency for additive materials to transfer from the paper web to surfaces of the cigarette machine is increased with increasing speed of manufacture of the continuous cigarette rod.

Several references have proposed modifications to the garniture regions of cigarette making machines. Several of those references propose introducing certain substances into a cigarette making machine during cigarette rod manufacture. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 186 754 to Labbe discloses feeding water or alcohol to the surface of the tongue which contacts the stream of a particular type of tobacco in order address concerns of gummy substances that reportedly build up on that tongue. U.S. Pat. No. 4 409 995 to Nichols discloses applying a flavorant in particulate or liquid form to a cigarette rod through the tongue region of a cigarette making machine. U.S. Pat. No. 4 619 276 to Albertson et al. discloses applying foamed flavorant to a cigarette rod through the tongue region of a cigarette making machine. U.S. Pat. No. 4 899 765 to Davis et al. discloses a process for introducing liquid into the garniture tongue in liquid outlet openings.

It would be highly desirable to provide cigarettes having predetermined patterns of additive materials e.g. as bands applied in desired locations to the wrapping materials of those cigarettes particularly using on line processes during cigarette manufacture. It also would be desirable to apply additive materials to a continuous web of a wrapping material of a tobacco rod in an efficient and effective manner during the manufacture of that tobacco rod. It also would be desirable to ensure that the wrapping material so treated with additive material meets standards of quality desired by the manufacturer of those tobacco rods. It also would be desirable to provide a method for minimizing or preventing transfer of an additive material on a paper web to a cigarette making machine surface and it also would be desirable that such method operate effectively and be easily implemented within a conventional automated cigarette making machine of the type used to produce commercial quantities of cigarettes.

The present invention provides systems apparatus and methods for manufacturing smoking articles such as cigarettes. Certain preferred aspects of the present invention relate to manners and methods for transferring additive material to and retaining an additive material on desired locations of a wrapping material suitable for use for smoking article manufacture e.g. paper wrapping web when manufacturing smoking articles from those materials using a cigarette making machine. That is preferred aspects of the present invention comprise various embodiments of an apparatus for applying an additive material to a continuous advancing strip of a paper web within a region of an automated cigarette making machine system e.g. a machine designed to produce a continuous cigarette rod . In the highly preferred aspects of the present invention an additive material is applied to a paper web in an on line fashion i.e. using a cigarette making machine or a component of a cigarette making machine assembly during cigarette manufacturing process .

Certain cigarette making apparatus and systems of the present invention are characterized as single component systems. A continuous paper web is provided from a source e.g. a bobbin associated with a component of such a system e.g. an unwind spindle assembly of that system . Tobacco filler and components for manufacturing a continuous cigarette rod from the tobacco filler and the continuous paper web are provided using the same component of that system e.g. using an upwardly moving air stream coupled with a conveyor system and a garniture system respectively . Such cigarette making apparatus can be adapted to incorporate additive application apparatus that provide ways to apply additive material e.g. coating formulations to the continuous paper web in an on line fashion.

Certain cigarette making apparatus and systems of the present invention are characterized as multi component systems and in particular two component systems. A continuous paper web is provided from a source that is the first component of such a system. Tobacco filler and components for manufacturing a continuous cigarette rod from the tobacco filler and the continuous paper web supplied by the first component are provided using the second component of that system. For preferred two component systems the two components are independent stand alone units. Such cigarette making apparatus can be adapted to incorporate additive application apparatus that provide ways to apply additive material e.g. coating formulations to the continuous paper web in an on line fashion.

In one aspect the present invention relates to equipment and methods for applying an additive material to a substrate such as a paper web used as a wrapping material for cigarette manufacture. Those equipment and methods are particularly suitable in connection with the operation of an automated cigarette making machine and for the purpose of applying a predetermined pattern of additive material to a continuous strip of paper web. An additive application apparatus includes a first roller adapted to receive the additive material e.g. a coating formulation in liquid form and a second roller adjacent to the first roller adapted to transfer the additive material from the first roller to the substrate e.g. paper web . That apparatus also includes an additive material reservoir adjacent to the first roller for containing the additive material and for supplying the additive material to the first roller. The additive material so supplied is positioned within pockets grooves or indentations within the roll face of the first roller. For that apparatus the roll face of the second roller is in roll contact with the roll face of the first roller in one location and the roll face of the second roller is in contact with the paper web in another location thus allowing for a predetermined transfer of additive material in a two step manner. That is when the additive material is supplied to pockets within the roll face of the first roller that additive material is transferred to the roll face of the second roller and when the second roller contacts the advancing paper web the additive material is transferred from the roll face of the second roller and applied to the advancing paper web.

For the foregoing additive application apparatus appropriate roll contact between the roll faces of the respective rollers is facilitated by a pressure plate or other suitable means for ensuring contact of the second roller with the first roller. As such the first roller is moved or otherwise arranged or positioned into operative rotating engagement with the second roller. Thus in certain embodiments such as when the first and second rollers both are located on the same side of the paper web and when the first and second rollers are in appropriate roll contact the additive material is transferred from the first roller to the second roller in virtually the same type of pattern as the pattern dictated by the location the pockets on the first roller. Contact of the second roller with the paper web is provided using a roller lift bracket or other suitable means for facilitating contact of the second roller with the paper web. The roller lift bracket includes a plurality of guide rollers and the bracket is movable e.g. preferably is slidable up and down so as to cause movement of those rollers into rotating roll contact with the paper web and the paper web into contact with the second roller. Thus when the paper web contacts the second roller the additive material is transferred from the second roller to the paper web in essentially the same pattern as the pattern dictated by the location of the pockets on the first roller i.e. the pattern corresponds to the pattern of the pockets on the roll face of the first roller . As such a suitable method for applying additive material to a web of wrapping material most preferably in an on line fashion is provided.

In another embodiment of an additive application apparatus additive material e.g. a coating formulation in paste form is applied to a substrate e.g. a paper web using a system that employs a first roller adapted to i receive an additive material from an additive material reservoir and ii apply that additive material to the substrate. Preferably the first roller comprises a plurality of pockets grooves or indentations that are aligned or arranged in the form of a pattern on the roll face of that roller. When the additive material is supplied to the first roller a predetermined amount of the additive material is contained in each of the plurality of pockets. A second roller is in roll contact with the first roller and the paper web passes through the location or region where those two rollers make roll contact. Such roll contact facilitates transfer of the additive material from the first roller to the paper web.

For the foregoing additive application apparatus the second roller is connected to the roller lift bracket and is thus positioned on the side of the paper web opposite the first roller. The roller lift bracket preferably is movable and as such provides a means to cause movement of the second roller into and out of rotating contact with both the paper web and the first roller. In this manner the roller lift bracket provides both i a way to provide contact of the second roller with the first roller and ii a way to provide contact of the second roller with the paper web. Thus when the paper web comes into contact between the first and second rollers in the nip region or location between those rollers the additive material is transferred from the first roller to the paper web in essentially the same pattern as the pattern dictated by the location of the pockets on the first roller i.e. the pattern corresponds to the pattern of the pockets on the roll face of the first roller . As such a suitable method for applying additive material to a web of wrapping material most preferably in an on line fashion is provided.

The present invention in another aspect relates to a system useful for retaining on a paper web an additive material that has been applied to that paper web. The additive material can be a material that is applied to the paper web in a previous processing step such as using gravure printing techniques e.g. using so called off line techniques or while that paper web is being used for the manufacture of cigarettes within a cigarette making machine e.g. using on line techniques . The system most preferably is located in the garniture entrance region of the cigarette making machine and particularly in the finger rail region of the cigarette making machine. The system comprises a finger rail assembly and a garniture entrance cone which are located in a region of the cigarette making machine adapted to receive a continuous paper web. The paper web is advanced between the lower region of the finger rail assembly and the upper region of the garniture entrance cone. The system includes at least one air chamber e.g. preferably each finger rail of the finger rail assembly includes an air chamber located above the advancing paper web and a supply of pressurized or compressed gas e.g. air is fed into that air chamber e.g. a manifold or tubular channel . The air chamber includes a plurality of air distribution outlets or air passageways directed toward the lower surface of the system and as such air flows out of the air chamber. When a high velocity stream of air exits the air distribution outlets and is directed generally downward a zone of air turbulence preferably is created above the advancing paper web. That turbulence provides downward force that maintains the paper web a distance away from e.g. spaced from the finger rail assembly of the cigarette making machine. As a result the additive material is retained on the paper web and undesirable transfer of the additive material to the finger rail components of the cigarette making machine and other regions of the cigarette making machine is minimized avoided or prevented.

The present invention in another aspect relates to another system useful for retaining on a paper web an additive material that has been applied to that paper web. That system encompasses modification of a garniture entrance cone which is designed to be positioned below the advancing paper web within a cigarette making machine . An entrance cone of one aspect of the present invention is adapted to possess an air chamber. That air chamber e.g. manifold is adapted to receive a flow or stream of gas e.g. air from a supply of pressurized or compressed air. Two air channels both providing air outlets or other suitably adapted air distribution means are directed generally longitudinally and are designed so as to provide a flow of air generally upwardly and generally outwardly. As a result for each of opposing edges of the paper web i.e. the right and left sides of the paper web relative to the longitudinal axis of that web that pass over that entrance cone the stream of air exiting each channel creates a zone of low air pressure zone between that paper web and the upper surface of the entrance cone. Each of the paper web edges is affected by this low pressure zone and each edge is urged toward the entrance cone and away from the finger rail components of the cigarette making machine and other regions of the cigarette making machine . As a result contact of the paper web and additive material with certain components of the cigarette making machine is minimized avoided or prevented.

In one embodiment of the foregoing an apparatus for the manufacture of cigarettes is adapted to minimize avoid or prevent transfer of an additive material applied to a paper web from that paper web to surfaces of certain components of that apparatus. The apparatus includes a finger rail assembly comprising a pair of finger rails positioned at the distal or exit end of a suction rod conveyor system. The apparatus also includes a garniture entrance cone positioned below the pair of finger rails essentially as is conventional in a commercially available automated cigarette making machine. The pair of finger rails and the garniture entrance cone are adapted to receive between them a continuous strip of advancing paper web. In certain circumstances the advancing paper web has a predetermined pattern of additive material e.g. bands applied thereto. Each finger rail includes an air chamber and the air chamber is adapted to receive a high velocity stream of air. Each air chamber has a plurality of air distribution outlets along its length directed generally downward toward the entrance cone. Those air distribution outlets can be arranged in either a random or a predetermined pattern preferably so as to provide a turbulent flow of air below each finger rail. In the preferred embodiments the stream air and the design of the air outlet pattern provides for a relatively consistent air flow from each of the various air distribution outlets. When the stream of air exits the air distribution outlets a zone of air movement e.g. turbulence is created above the advancing paper web and the action of that high velocity air flow acts to maintain the paper web a distance away from the finger rails. Preferably the entrance cone comprises an air chamber and high velocity or pressurized air is fed into that air chamber. Two air channels or slots both providing air outlets or other suitably adapted air distribution means are directed generally longitudinally and are designed so as to provide a flow of air generally upwardly and generally outwardly. When the high velocity air exits the slots of the entrance a zone of low pressure is created between the paper web and the upper surface of the entrance cone. Each of the side edges of the paper web is affected by this low pressure zone and is urged toward the entrance cone upper surface and away from the finger rails and contact of the paper web with components of the finger rail assembly is minimized avoided or prevented. Thus an improved method for the manufacture of smoking articles such as cigarettes is provided.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to a system for controlling the heat to which the web of wrapping material is subjected. That is such a system can be used to control the temperature e.g. by heating or cooling the web of paper wrapping material and any additive material that has been applied to that paper web. One suitable system is a radiant energy system utilizes electromagnetic radiation in the form of microwave radiation. In a highly preferred embodiment the moving continuous paper web is subjected to treatment using a heating cooling device which most preferably is a radiant heating device essentially immediately after that paper web has additive material e.g. a water based coating formulation applied thereto.

The present invention in one aspect relates to a system for controlling or registering in an on line fashion the location of the applied pattern e.g. bands of additive material on the wrapping material to the location of that pattern on the smoking article that is manufactured. In one embodiment the application of each band is controlled relative to the speed at which the cigarette making machine is operated and the location of each band is timed to the operation of the cutting device e.g. flying knife that cuts the continuous rod into cigarette rods of predetermined length. In another embodiment registration of patterns e.g. bands on a paper web and hence on predetermined locations on cigarettes is provided using digital motion control techniques that utilize a servo control system in combination with i digital encoders for providing feedback of certain cigarette making machine operating parameters e.g. such as information regarding band positioning and continuous cigarette rod speed and ii feedback from a detector that responds to the presence of bands on the paper web.

In another aspect the present invention relates an adapted automated cigarette making apparatus of the type having a conveyor belt for tobacco filler supply a garniture belt for advancing a continuous strip of paper web and a cutting knife for subdividing a continuous cigarette rod into predetermined lengths and all of the foregoing are operated using a single power source e.g. all of the foregoing are mechanically linked by belts and driven off of the same main motor . The adapted apparatus is provided by disabling operation of the power source such as is accomplished by removing connection of operation of each of the conveyor belt the garniture belt and the cutting knife to that power source. Operation of the cutting knife is adapted so as to be powered by a second power source e.g. the motor of a servo system . Operation of the garniture belt and the conveyor belt are provided by a third power source e.g. a motor of a servo system that is independent of the second power source. As such operation of the garniture belt and conveyor belt are mechanically linked to one another. During operation of the adapted apparatus output signals from each of the second and third power sources are provided to a control system and the control system can provide independent feedback to each of the second and third power sources so as to alter the speed of operation of those power sources relative to one another e.g. the second power source can be directed to speed up operation and or the third power source can be directed to slow down operation .

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to a system for inspecting a substrate in the form of a wrapping material for smoking article manufacture. The system is particularly well suited for inspection of a web of paper wrapping material that has a discontinuous nature such as is provided by application of an additive material to all or a portion of that wrapping material e.g. as a pattern . The system possesses an emitter for directing radiation into contact with the web of material containing a pattern such that the radiation impinges upon the web of material and is absorbed. The system also possesses a detector e.g. a near infrared sensor or detector or a non contact ultrasonic transducer for receiving reflected radiation from the web and for forming electrical signals representative of at least one selected component e.g. water or representative change in mass of material corresponding to the presence of additive material. The system further includes circuitry for processing the aforementioned electrical signals to determine information relating to the presence of the pattern on the web and for generating output signals. The system further includes computing logic for receiving the output signals and for determining whether those signals are representative of an unacceptable irregular pattern on the web or of an acceptable desired pattern. The system further includes computer logic for receiving information regarding irregular patterns and for signaling rejection of component materials e.g. formed cigarettes manufactured from wrapping materials possessing that have been determined to possess irregular patterns.

Features of the foregoing aspects and embodiments of the present invention can be accomplished singularly or in combination in one or more of the foregoing. As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art the present invention has wide utility in a number of applications as illustrated by the variety of features and advantages discussed below. As will be realized by those of skill in the art many different embodiments of the foregoing are possible. Additional uses objects advantages and novel features of the present invention are set forth in the detailed description that follows and will become more apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following or by practice of the invention.

Aspects and embodiments of the present invention include cigarette making machines and components thereof that are useful for manufacturing cigarettes and in particular that are useful for transferring and retaining additive material on a paper wrapping web in an efficient effective and desired manner. illustrate those aspects and embodiments. Like components are given like numeric designations throughout the figures.

A conventional automated cigarette rod making machine useful in carrying out the present invention is of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as Mk8 commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed and can be suitably modified in accordance with the present invention. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. and PCT WO 02 19848. Designs of various components of cigarette making machines and the various materials used to manufacture those components will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation.

Referring to a one component cigarette making machine assembly includes cigarette making machine . The cigarette making machine includes a chimney region that provides a source of tobacco filler or other smoking material. The tobacco filler is provided continuously within an upwardly moving air stream shown by arrow and is blown onto the lower outside surface of a continuous a conveyor system . The conveyor system includes an endless porous formable conveyor belt that is supported and driven at each end by left roller and right roller . A low pressure region or suction chamber within the foraminous belt acts to attract and retain tobacco filler against the bottom of the conveyor system . As such tobacco filler located below the conveyor belt is pulled upward toward that belt thereby forming the tobacco filler into a tobacco stream or cake on the lower surface of that belt. The conveyor belt thus conveys the stream of tobacco filler to the left toward a garniture section of the cigarette making machine . An ecreteur or trimmer disc assembly assists in providing transfer of the appropriate amount of tobacco filler to the garniture region . Descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment and suction conveyor systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann and U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al.

Meanwhile a continuous web of paper wrapping material is supplied from a bobbin . The bobbin is supported and rotated using an unwind spindle assembly .

The paper web is routed on a desired path using a series of idler rollers and guideposts shown as rollers through an optional printing assembly device and ultimately through the garniture region . Typically product indicia are printed onto the paper web at predetermined regions thereof using printing assembly . Printing assemblies for printing product indicia e.g. logos in gold colored print are component parts of commercially available machines and the selection and operation thereof will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machine design and operation. Techniques for registering the location of printed product indicia on the ultimate cigarette product e.g. on the paper wrapper of a cigarette rod in a location immediately adjacent to the tipping material of that product are known to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture.

The paper web also is routed through an applicator system prior to the time that the web reaches the garniture section . The applicator system is employed to apply a desired pattern of additive material to the paper web . A representative pattern is provided by applying spaced bands that are aligned transversely to the longitudinal axis of the paper web . A representative additive material is a coating formulation in a liquid syrup or paste form.

Optionally though not preferably the paper web can be routed through a heating cooling control unit not shown immediately before the paper web passes through the applicator system . A suitable heating cooling unit is a heating unit having the form of an infrared heater not shown and that heater can be operated at any desired temperature for example at a temperature of about 180 C. to about 220 C. The heating cooling unit can be used to provide the paper web at a desired temperature e.g. the paper web can be pre heated immediately prior to application of the additive material formulation to the surface of that paper web.

A representative additive applicator comprises a pick up roller and a transfer roller . The pick up roller includes a plurality of patterned e.g. evenly spaced apart pockets on its roll face not shown into which a predetermined amount of additive is deposited. The positioning shape and number of pockets can vary and typically depends upon the pattern that is desired to be applied to the paper web e.g. spaced apart pockets can be used to place spaced bands of additive material on the web . For example in one embodiment of a transfer roller seven pockets each having the form of transversely aligned bands each placed about 46 mm apart. The shape including depth of each pocket can determine the amount of additive material that can be carried by that pocket and hence applied to the paper web .

The additive material typically is provided from a supply source reservoir not shown through tubing or other suitable supply means not shown to a port or supply region near the head i.e. infeed region of the pick up roller . The additive material is fed from the head of the pick up roller into the pockets of the pick up roller.

If desired the supply region and the region of the pick up roller and other relevant regions of the additive applicator can be supplied with heat control system using a suitable heating or cooling device not shown . As such a heating device can provide a heated region that can be used to assist in maintaining a solid or very viscous coating formulation in a melted form such as in the form of a liquid syrup or paste. A representative heating device is an electrical resistance heating unit controlled by a rheostat and the heating device can be appropriately fashioned so as to transfer the desired amount of heat to the various components of the additive applicator . As such sufficient heat can be provided to provide coating formulation at a temperature above ambient temperature and for example at a temperature within the range of about 120 F. to about 180 F. If desired heat insulation material not shown can be positioned in adjacent regions of the cigarette making machine in order that transfer of heat to other regions of that machine is minimized or prevented.

Operation of the pick up roller and the transfer roller are timed and controlled relative to the speed of operation of the cigarette making machine . As the pick up roller and the transfer roller are engaged in roll contact and rotate in contact with each other in a controlled manner the additive material is transferred from the pockets of the pick up roller onto predetermined regions of the roll face surface not shown of the transfer roller . The additive material is transferred onto the transfer roller surface in essentially the same pattern as that of the spaced apart pockets on the pick up roller i.e. the pattern applied to the paper web is dictated by the design of the pattern of the roll face of the pick up roller .

The paper web comprises two major surfaces an inside surface and an outside surface . The stream of tobacco filler ultimately is deposited upon the inside surface of the paper web and the additive material most preferably also is applied to the inside surface of that web. As the paper web travels across the surface of the rotating transfer roller the additive material on the surface of the transfer roller is transferred to the inside surface of the advancing paper web at locations corresponding to the location of the pockets located on the roll face of the pick up roller .

After the additive material has been applied to the paper web the web can be exposed to a sensor or detector for a measurement system such as a registration system and or an inspection system not shown . Preferably the detector is mounted on the frame of the cigarette making machine and is positioned so as to receive information concerning the paper web immediately after additive material has been applied to that paper web. Typically the detector is a component of certain registration systems and inspection systems of the present invention. Suitable detector systems are described hereinafter in greater detail with reference to . Alternative sensors detectors and inspection system components and description of inspection system technologies and methods of operation are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 845 374 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 966 218 to Bokelman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 020 969 to Struckhoff et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 198 537 to Bokelman et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

Additionally after the additive material has been applied to the paper web the web can be passed through an optional heating cooling control device . The control device can be used to alter the heat to which the paper web and additive material is subjected e.g. by raising or lowering temperature . For example the heating cooling control device can be a heating or drying device adapted to assist in the removal of solvent e.g. moisture from the additive material that has been applied to the paper web . Alternatively for example the heating cooling control device can be a cooling device adapted to assist in the hardening melted additive material that has been applied to the paper web using a heated additive applicator system . Typically the heating cooling control device has a tunnel type configuration through which the paper web is passed and during the time that the paper web is present within that tunnel region the paper web is subjected to heating supplied by a convection or radiant heating device or cooling supplied by a refrigerant type liquid carbon dioxide type or liquid nitrogen type cooling device.

Typically the region of the cigarette making machine where the heating cooling device is located does not afford sufficient room to provide a heating cooling control device of any appreciable size. For this reason it is desirable to locate such an optional heating cooling device in a location that is offset from the cigarette making machine. For example appropriately located and positioned turning bars not shown can be used to direct the paper web outward and optionally upward or downward from the front face of the cigarette making machine and the paper web can be routed through the heating cooling device that can be supported but frame or other suitable support means not shown and appropriately located and positioned turning bars not shown can be used to direct the paper web so subjected to heating or cooling back to the cigarette making machine for continued use in the cigarette manufacturing process.

The paper web travels toward the garniture region of the cigarette making machine . The garniture region includes an endless formable garniture conveyor belt . That garniture conveyor belt conveys the paper web around a roller underneath a finger rail assembly and advances that paper web over and through a garniture entrance cone . The entrance cone also extends beyond e.g. downstream from the finger rail assembly . The right end of the garniture conveyor belt is positioned adjacent to and beneath the left end of the suction conveyor system in order that the stream of tobacco filler carried by conveyor belt is deposited on the paper web in that region. The finger rail assembly and garniture entrance cone combine to provide a way to guide movement of an advancing tobacco filler cake from the suction conveyor to the garniture region . Selection and use of finger rail assemblies and garniture entrance cones will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette manufacture. Alternatively finger rail assemblies and or garniture entrance cones that are described in greater detail hereinafter with reference to can be employed.

As the conveyor belt and tobacco filler cake travel within the finger rail assembly vacuum suction applied to the inside region of the conveyor belt is released. As a result tobacco filler is released from contact with the conveyor belt falls downwardly from that conveyor belt through a longitudinally extending track not shown within the finger rail assembly and is deposited onto the advancing paper web at the left side of the garniture region immediately below the finger rail assembly. In conjunction with the release of vacuum from the conveyor belt removal of tobacco filler from the conveyor belt and deposit of that tobacco filler onto the moving paper web is facilitated through the use of a shoe or scrape or other suitable means that is used to peel or otherwise physically remove advancing tobacco filler off of the outer surface of the extreme left end of the conveyor belt .

The garniture section includes a tongue adjacent to the distal end of the finger rail assembly and above the top surface of the garniture conveyor belt . The tongue provides a commencement of constriction of the tobacco filler that has been deposited on the paper web . Meanwhile the garniture conveyor belt begins to form that tobacco filler stream and paper web into a continuous rod . The tongue extends to a point where the paper web is secured around that stream of tobacco filler. The tongue and the garniture conveyor belt define a passage which progressively decreases in cross section in the direction of movement of the tobacco filler stream such that the deposited tobacco filler stream progressively forms a substantially circular cross section that is desired for the ultimate finished continuous cigarette rod .

The garniture section also includes a folding mechanism on each side of the garniture conveyor belt located adjacent to and downstream from the tongue . The folding mechanism is aligned in the direction of filler stream movement further compresses the tobacco filler within the rod that is being formed and folds the paper web around the advancing components of the forming continuous cigarette rod . A fashioned continuous tobacco rod that exits the tongue and folding mechanism then passes through an adhesive applicator in order that adhesive is applied to the exposed length or lap seam region of the paper web . That is the exposed length of paper web then is lapped onto itself and the adhesive is set that region in order to secure the paper web around the tobacco filler thereby forming the continuous cigarette rod . The continuous rod passes through a cutting or subdivision mechanism and this subdivided into a plurality of rods each of the desired length. The selection and operation of suitable subdivision mechanisms and the components thereof will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette manufacture. For example the cutting speed of knife not shown within a ledger or other suitable guide is controlled to correspond to the speed that the cigarette making machine is operated. That is the location that an angled flying knife not shown cuts the continuous rod into a plurality of rods each of essentially equal length is controlled by controlling the speed of operation of that knife relative to speed that the cigarette making machine supplies the continuous rod.

Typically operation of the conveyor belt garniture belt and flying knife not shown within ledger all are mechanically linked to one another by belts or other suitable means and are driven off of the same power source not shown . For example for a cigarette making machine such as a PROTOS 80 that is commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG the main motor of that cigarette making machine is used to drive operation of the conveyor belt the garniture belt and the flying knife. An alternate design of such a type of cigarette making machine can be provided by providing power to the flying knife from one power source such as the motor of a servo system not shown and the power to the garniture belt and the conveyor belt can be provided from a second power source such as the motor of a second servo system not shown . Typically power for operation of the garniture belt is provided by suitable mechanical connection to the second power source and the power for operation of the conveyor belt is provided by suitable linkage to the operation of the garniture belt by suitably adapted timing belt systems or other suitable means not shown . Encoders not shown mechanically coupled to the first and second servo systems not shown provide information to a processing unit not shown regarding cigarette manufacturing speed and garniture speed respectively. The detector e.g. such as a non contact ultrasonic detector also can be adapted to provide information regarding location of additive material that has been applied to the paper web to the same processing unit not shown . Using the processing unit the positioning of applied pattern on the paper web can be compared to a specified positioning of the pattern and the processing unit can be used to alter the speed of operation of the two servo systems relative to one another to bring cigarette rods that are out of specification back to within specification. For example the speed of operation of the flying knife can be increased and or the speed of operation of the garniture belt can be decreased until cigarette rods are determined to be back within the desired range of tolerance or within specification.

Those cigarette rods then most preferably have filter elements not shown attached thereto using known components techniques and equipment not shown . For example the cigarette making machine can be suitably coupled to filter tipping machine not shown such as a machine available as a MAX MAX S or MAX 80 Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See also for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al.

The cigarette making machine assembly and configuration described with reference to are representative of a single cigarette making machine that provides both the tobacco filler and the patterned paper web to the garniture region of that machine. Cigarette making machine assemblies and configurations representative of those that provide the tobacco filler to the garniture region from one location and the patterned paper web to the garniture region from another location i.e. multi component systems are described with reference to .

Referring to there is shown a two component automated cigarette making machine assembly that is constructed by coupling a wrapping material supply machine e.g. a first component with a cigarette making machine e.g. a second component .

A suitable wrapping material supply machine can be provided by appropriately modifying a web supply unit available as SE 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. Other suitable unwind units such those having the types of components set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 966 218 to Bokelman et al. also can be employed. The supply machine most preferably is a free standing machine that is capable of providing a patterned web of wrapping material to a conventional or suitably modified cigarette making machine . The supply machine includes a frame that supports at least one unwind spindle assembly onto which a first bobbin is mounted. Preferably the supply machine includes a second unwind spindle assembly for a second bobbin not shown and a web splicing mechanism .

The paper web is threaded through a tension sensor which in conjunction with a braking component is connected to the shaft of the unwind spindle assembly maintains a desired amount of tension on the paper web as it is transferred from the bobbin .

In operation a continuous paper web supplied from a bobbin is routed through a path defined by a series of idler rollers and guideposts . The paper web also is routed through an applicator system that is used to apply a desired pattern of additive material to the paper web . A representative additive material is a coating formulation in a liquid syrup or paste form. Optionally though not preferred the paper web can be routed through a heating cooling control unit not shown immediately before the paper web passes through the applicator system .

A representative additive applicator comprises a pick up roller and a transfer roller and can be operated in essentially the same manner as described previously with reference to . The additive material typically is provided from a supply source reservoir not shown through tubing e.g. Tygon type tubing or other suitable supply means not shown to a port or supply region near the head i.e. infeed region of the pick up roller . If desired the supply region and the region of the pick up roller can be supplied with heat using a suitable heating device not shown . The additive material is fed from the head of the pick up roller into the pockets of the pick up roller. As the pick up roller and the transfer roller are engaged in roll contact and rotate in contact with each other the additive material is transferred from the pockets of the pick up roller onto predetermined regions of the roll face surface not shown of the transfer roller . The additive material is transferred onto the transfer roller surface in essentially the same pattern as that of the spaced apart pockets on the pick up roller i.e. the pattern on the paper web is defined by that pattern on the roll face of the pick up roller . The additive material most preferably also is applied to predetermined locations on the inside surface of the paper web .

After the additive material has been applied to the paper web the web can be exposed to a sensor or detector for a registration system and or an inspection system not shown . Preferably the detector is positioned so as to receive information concerning the paper web immediately after additive material has been applied to that paper web. Typically the detector is used in conjunction with the certain registration systems and inspection systems of the present invention. Suitable detector systems are described hereinafter in greater detail with reference to . Alternative sensors detectors and inspection system components and description of inspection system technologies and operation are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 845 374 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 966 218 to Bokelman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 020 969 to Struckhoff et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 198 537 to Bokelman et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

Additionally after the additive material has been applied to the paper web i.e. downstream from the applicator apparatus the web can be passed through an optional though highly preferred heating cooling control device or other suitable means for controlling heat to which the paper web is subjected. The control device can be used to alter the heat to which the paper web and additive material is subjected e.g. by raising or lowering the temperature . For example the control device can be a heating or drying device adapted to assist in the removal of solvent e.g. moisture from the additive material that has been applied to the paper web . Alternatively for example the heating cooling control device can be a cooling device adapted to assist in the hardening melted additive material that has been applied to the paper web using a heated additive applicator system . Typically the heating cooling control device has a tunnel type configuration through which the paper web is passed through an inlet end and out an outlet end and during the time that the paper web is present within that tunnel region the paper web is subjected to heating supplied using infrared convection or radiant heating devices or cooling supplied using refrigerant type liquid carbon dioxide type or liquid nitrogen type cooling devices.

The size of the heating cooling device can vary particularly because that device is positioned and supported by a component that is physically separated from and spaced from the cigarette making machine . That is there is provided sufficient room to subject the paper web to treatment using the heating cooling device . Exemplary heating cooling devices have lengths of about 2 feet to about 10 feet with lengths of about 3 feet to about 6 feet being typical. The distance that the paper web travels through the heating cooling device i.e. the length of travel through that device can vary. For example the paper web can be routed back and forth within the heating cooling device using a suitably adapted roller system configuration not shown .

Most preferably the heating cooling control device is used to provide radiant heating to the paper web . An exemplary heating and drying system is available as IMS Model No. P24N002KA02 2 kW 2450 MHz Linear Drying System from Industrial Microwave Systems Inc. Representative types of radiant drying systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 958 275 to Joines et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 998 774 to Joines et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 075 232 to Joines et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 087 642 to Joines et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 246 037 to Drozd et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 259 077 to Drozd et al. all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Such types of radiant drying systems can be manufactured from materials such aluminum and aluminum alloys.

Radiant type drying systems are preferred because typical infrared type drying systems require relatively long residence times to adequately remove effective quantities of solvent or liquid carrier e.g. water from the paper web . For fast moving paper webs running at nominal cigarette making machine speeds the application of sufficient heat demands the need for relatively long infrared type drying apparatus. Additionally sufficient heat from infrared type drying systems requires the use of relatively high temperatures thus providing the propensity for scorching and browning of certain areas of the paper web and the risk of fire. For example for a conventional cigarette making machine operating so as to produce about 8 000 cigarette rods per minute and having bands of additive material applied to the advancing paper web so that about 1 mg of water is applied to each individual cigarette rod about 350 to about 700 watts per hour is effectively required to remove that water from the paper web.

A microwave type drying system is desirable because effectively high amounts of heat can be employed in controlled manners. An exemplary system is one that employs planar wave guide of about 36 inches in length an internal width of about 1.6 inches and an internal depth of about 3.7 inches. Preferred wave guides are of dimension to allow passage of only lowest order i.e. TE or single mode radiation. An exemplary system also can possess inlet and outlet ends that both have widths of about 1.75 inch and heights of about 0.37 inch. Within the inner region of the drying system immediately within each end of the inlet and outlet ends are positioned choke flanges pin chokes not shown or other means to assist in the prevention of escape or leakage of radiation from the system and those flanges or pins typically extent about 3 inches into the system from each respective end.

Microwave type drying systems can apply heat to desirable locations on the paper web where heat is needed i.e. in the printed regions of the paper web . In one preferred radiant type drying system microwave energy is launched at one end of a waveguide and is reflected at the other end of that waveguide resulting in the paper web experiencing radiant energy for effectively an extended period. Precise drying control can be achieved by attenuating the microwave energy and or the path of the paper web within the microwave drying system. Such radiant type drying systems thus can be used to evaporate the solvent or liquid carrier e.g. water of the additive material formulations by applying the microwave energy uniformly throughout the patterned region e.g. to the bands of applied additive material coating formulation .

The controls for the radiant type dryer e.g. the microwave control and associated safety systems most preferably are integrated into the programmable logic controller based PLC based control system not shown for supervisory control. The PLC based system not shown enables radiant energy production and disables the radiant energy production when radiant energy is not needed for drying e.g. such as when the production system is stopped or paper web experiences a break . The top and bottom regions of the wave guide of the drying system in portions of the drying region can be perforated with a plurality of perforations not shown to allow for the removal of moisture without allowing radiation e.g. microwave radiation from escaping into the surroundings. A suitably designed shroud and an electrically driven fan not shown can be placed over the top of those perforations in order to remove the evaporated moisture away from the paper web and remove dust from the system. If desired the fan not shown also can be under the control of the PLC based system and as such only operate during operation of the cigarette manufacturing system .

For a radiant heating system for the embodiment shown in radiant microwave energy is supplied by a generator for electromagnetic radiation which is located one end of that system. Typically higher power generators are used to produce heat to remove greater amounts of moisture and generators producing up to about 6 kW of power are suitable for most applications. Radiation produced by the generator is passed through appropriate wave guides and circulators not shown . The microwave radiation passes through a curved wave guide and through a drying region for the paper web . A typical drying region for a microwave drying system has a length of about 30 inches. As such the radiation supplied to the drying system and the paper web move in the same overall direction through that drying system. Radiation that travels through the drying region is reflected by suitable reflector i.e. a short plate or reflector plate at the other end of the drying system. That radiation is reflected back through the drying region back through the channel at the other end of the heating system and as such the reflected radiation and the paper web move in an overall counter current manner relative to one another. Any remaining radiation is appropriately redirected through appropriately positioned wave guides and circulators to a dry air cooled load or other suitable radiation dissipation means. As such the radiation is converted to heat and the resulting heat can be removed using electrical fans not shown or other suitable means.

In a preferred embodiment not shown the positioning of the heating device shown in is reversed e.g. the heating device is rotated 180 such that the paper web enters at the end of the heating device possessing the reflector and exits at the end through which radiation enters the channel from the generator . As such radiation entering the drying system from the source of radiation and the paper web travel in an overall counter current manner relative to one another.

The additive applicator used in conjunction with the supply machine most preferably is driven by a servo drive control system not shown or other suitable control means. Suitable servo based systems and the operation thereof are described in greater detail hereinafter with reference to . As such the positioning of the additive material on the paper web can be controlled relative to the location that the continuous cigarette rod that is manufactured using the second component is cut into predetermined lengths and hence registration of the applied pattern of additive material on a finished cigarette can be achieved. That is the automated cutting knife not shown for subdividing the continuous rod into predetermined lengths can be controlled relative to those components used to apply additive material to the paper web that is used to provide that continuous rod.

The paper web exits the temperature control device and is advanced to the cigarette making machine . Direction of the paper web is provided by suitably aligned series of idler rollers or guideposts turning bars or other suitable means for directing the paper web from the first component to the second component . Suitable pathways for travel of the paper web can be provided by suitably designed tracks or tunnels not shown . As such there is provided a way to direct the paper web from the first component to the second component .

The continuous paper web is received from the first component by the second component . Typically the paper web is directed from idler roller to roller of the cigarette making machine or other suitable location. The paper web travels through printing assembly where indicia can be printed on the outer surface of that web if desired. The paper web then travels to the garniture region of the cigarette making machine where there are provided components for manufacturing a continuous cigarette rod by wrapping the tobacco filler in the paper web. The garniture conveyor belt advances that paper web through that garniture region. At the left end of the suction conveyor system tobacco filler is deposited from its source on the foraminous belt onto the paper web . The garniture region includes finger rail assembly garniture entrance cone scrape tongue folding mechanism and adhesive applicator that are employed to provide a continuous cigarette rod . The continuous rod is subdivided into a plurality of rods not shown each of the desired length using known techniques and equipment not shown . Those rods then most preferably have filter elements attached thereto using known techniques and equipment not shown .

The cigarette making machine assembly and configuration described with reference to are representative of cigarette making machine assemblies and configurations that can be used to provide tobacco filler to a garniture region from one location and the patterned paper web to the garniture region from another location. Furthermore the representative cigarette making machine assembly i.e. with the component that provides the patterned paper web positioned to the front and to the right of the component that incorporates the tobacco source and the garniture assembly is such that the general direction of travel of the paper web through the wrapping material supply machine is essentially parallel to the direction of travel of the paper web through the garniture region of the cigarette making machine. However the positioning of the wrapping material supply machine to the cigarette making machine can vary. For example the wrapping material supply machine can be positioned beside or behind the cigarette making machine or positioned generally perpendicular to the garniture region of the cigarette making machine . In such circumstances the path of travel of the paper web from the wrapping material supply machine to the cigarette making machine can be accomplished through the use of appropriately positioned idler bars and roller guides. The exact path of travel of the paper web is a matter of design choice and the selection thereof will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of design and operation of cigarette manufacturing equipment.

Referring to there is shown a portion of a cigarette making machine assembly of the present invention. In particular there is shown an additive applicator apparatus representative of one aspect of the present invention. Such an additive applicator is particularly useful for applying to a paper web additive materials that are not particularly viscous e.g. formulations of additive materials having viscosities of less than about 1 000 centipoises .

Additive applicator is an assembly that includes a pick up roller and a transfer roller mounted adjacent to each other and through a first or front roller support plate on the exterior front face of the cigarette making machine assembly . A second or rear roller support plate located in the plane of and adjacent to the front roller plate provides a surface to which other structures of the additive applicator are mounted. Components of the additive applicator apparatus including rollers and support plates are manufactured from materials such as stainless steel or hardened carbon steel. Several rotatable guide rollers are suitably fixedly mounted such as to either the front roller plate or rear roller plate depending upon the desired location of those guide rollers. Those guide rollers provide the path over which the paper web travels from a bobbin not shown past the additive applicator and on to other downstream destinations of the cigarette making machine assembly.

The additive applicator also includes a manifold positioned above an additive material reservoir which is defined by the positioning of a reservoir front arm and a reservoir rear arm . Those arms are positioned above the pick up roller . Tubing or other suitable supply means is connected to the manifold and originates at a source of additive material not shown to provide an input of additive material to reservoir and hence to the roll face of the pick up roller . That portion of the additive applicator assembly thus provides a sealed path for flow of additive material to the region where that additive material is deposited onto the pick up roller. Preferably the reservoir front arm and rear arm each include at least one port not shown located on the bottom sides of each of those arms . At least one of those ports is an output port through which additive material is supplied to the roll face of the pick up roller . At least one other port is an input port through which a suction pump not shown suctions excess additive material from the edges of the pick up roller and pumps excess additive material back into the reservoir defined by arms . The assembly also includes a collection pot positioned adjacent to and slightly below the pick up roller . The collection pot serves as a temporary collection location for excess additive material removed from the pick up roller .

The manifold is attached to a glue manifold pivot plate which is attached to the front roller plate and the rear roller plate . Such attachment leaves the manifold with the capability of moving upward and downward about a manifold pivot pin not shown . Movement of the manifold upward from the operative position allows access to those regions located below the manifold. Access to that region is desirable have access to the reservoir arms to insert remove and service the pick up roller and for maintenance and service of the collection pot . In addition the reservoir arms are movable upward and downward about a reservoir pivot shaft not shown to allow access to the pick up roller and the collection pot .

The transfer roller and the pick up roller are positioned into operative engagement with one another using a roller pressure plate . The roller pressure plate is operably connected to an air cylinder or other suitable means for applying force to rollers . The air cylinder utilizes compressed air to force the roller pressure plate about a pressure plate pivot shaft into and out of engagement with the transfer roller . Movement of the roller pressure plate to engage and disengage the pick up roller with the transfer roller can programmed and as such a microprocessor associated with the operation of the cigarette making machine can be used to control movement of that plate .

The additive applicator further comprises a roller lift bracket mounted to the front roller plate and that lift bracket is movable. The roller lift bracket includes a pair of rollers or other suitable means for controlling the path of travel of the paper web . The roller lift bracket is operably connected to an air cylinder or other suitable means for applying force to the lift bracket. The air cylinder also is connected to a supply of pressurized air by an air tube or other suitable connection and supply means. The air cylinder utilizes compressed air to move the pair of rollers on the roller lift bracket into and out of rotating contact with the advancing paper web . For example when the rollers on the roller lift bracket move downward into contact with the paper web that paper web is likewise moved into rotating contact with roll face of the transfer roller . As a result of the contact of the paper web with the transfer roller the additive material applied to the transfer roller is transferred to the inside surface of the paper web in a desired pattern or fashion. Movement of the roller lift bracket and rollers into and out of contact with the paper web can programmed and as such a microprocessor associated with the operation of the cigarette making machine can be used to control movement of that bracket . The roller lift bracket can be controlled by a signal received from the cigarette making machine in order that the bracket can be retracted and the paper web can be moved so as to not be in contact with the various rollers when the cigarette making machine is not in normal operation and as such problems associated with sticking of the paper web to various components of the applicator apparatus are minimized avoided or prevented.

In operation during the process of cigarette manufacture the pick up roller is rotated counter clockwise and the transfer roller is rotated clock wise. Those rollers are engaged in contact by pressure supplied by the pressure plate . Additive material is feed from a source not shown to the manifold and from the manifold to the reservoir from the reservoir to the roll face of the pick up roller and onto the transfer roller . The additive material then is transferred from the transfer roller to the paper web as the paper web advances across the surface of the rotating transfer roller . That is as the paper web advances across the surface of the rotating transfer roller the roller lift bracket is moved downward and the rollers attached to that roller lift bracket are moved into contact with the advancing paper web . As a result the additive material on the surface of the transfer roller is transferred to the inside surface of the advancing paper web at locations corresponding to the pattern on the roller face of the transfer roller . The paper web having additive material applied thereto then is advanced to downstream locations of the cigarette making machine.

Referring to there is shown a portion of an additive applicator apparatus representative of one aspect of the present invention. The pick up roller and the transfer roller are shown roll contact with one another and in operative engagement. Pick up rolled possesses a roll face having a pattern of recessed grooves having the form of spaced bands or other desired pattern. Those recessed grooves provide a location for a predetermined amount of additive material to be deposited and the size and shape of those grooves is a matter of design choice. The pick up roller is rotated using a pick up drive shaft shown as cut away and the transfer roller is rotated using an applicator drive shaft shown as extending from opening in the applicator drive shaft box . The drive shafts extend through an opening in the front roller support plate which is adjacent the rear roller support plate . The pick up roller and the transfer roller are adapted to extend beyond the front faces of each of the front and rear roller plates .

The applicator drive shaft box is adapted to be positioned and secured to the back side of the front and rear roller plates . A pick up roller gear is in operative connection with the pick up drive shaft . A transfer roller gear is in operative connection with the applicator drive shaft . Both gears are located external to the applicator drive shaft box and are positioned on the back side of that drive shaft box . Those gears have interlocking teeth such that rotation of one of those gears in one direction causes rotation of the other gear in the opposite direction. The transfer roller gear is connected to a transfer roller pulley . A belt extends about the transfer roller pulley and around a power source pulley not shown . As a result power for rotational movement is provided to the transfer roller shaft and transfer roller by rotation of the pulley by movement of the belt and power for controlled rotational movement is provided to the pick up roller by way of the drive shaft that is rotated by operation of gears . In addition belt can act as a timing belt and by suitable use of that belt to control the speed of the applicator drive shaft relative to the speed of operation of the cigarette making machine it is possible to provide integral timing with the cigarette rod subdivision mechanism not shown of the cigarette making machine. Thus appropriate use of belt to connect appropriate gear mechanisms yields a method for providing pattern e.g. band registration for each individual finished cigarette rods not shown that are cut from the continuous rod not shown .

The applicator assembly of the present invention can further include a photoelectric sensor switch not shown located above a point of roller engagement between the pick up roller and the transfer roller . An exemplary sensor is a WT 12 2P430 from Sick Inc. Output from the photoelectric proximity switch is sent to a PLC or other suitable processor not shown associated with that photoelectric sensor not shown and monitors the amount e.g. level of additive material not shown in the region above that point of roller engagement of rollers . Thus as a flow of additive material is supplied from the manifold and reservoir an amount of the additive material forms at the point of engagement between those rollers . When the amount of that additive material supplied to that region drops below a predetermined level for sufficient desired transfer of the additive material to the transfer roller the information sensed and supplied by photoelectric sensor controls a switch to activate a pump not shown and hence to supply more additive material to the reservoir . Similarly deactivation of the pump can be controlled when a desired level of additive material is achieved.

The applicator assembly can further include sensors not shown that assist in ensuring that proper amounts of additive material is transferred to the paper web. For example an induction type sensor not shown located in the region of a pick up roller can sense that the pick up roller and other associated components of the applicator assembly are in proper position. In addition the cigarette making machine can be programmed such that when the induction sensor detects that the pick up roller is not in proper position that machine can provide appropriate signal to the operator or cease operation. In addition a further sensor not shown can be mounted on the rear roller plate at a location of the paper web after that paper web has passed over the transfer roller . That further sensor can be used to detect the presence or degree of presence of additive material on the paper web . Detection of a sufficient presence of additive material on the paper web indicates that additive material transfer mechanisms are operating properly. The cigarette making machine can be programmed to alert the machine operator or stop movement of the paper web if the further sensor detects an insufficient presence of the additive material on the paper web .

Referring to there is shown a portion of a cigarette making machine assembly of the present invention and there also are shown relevant components of another representative embodiment of an additive applicator apparatus of the present invention. Such an applicator is particularly useful for applying to a paper web more viscous additive materials than those embodiments described previously with reference to . More viscous additive materials useful in applications involving cigarette paper include for example formulations of additive materials having viscosities of greater than 100 000 centipoises. Such higher viscosity additive materials can be characterized as pastes.

Additive applicator is an assembly that includes a major pick up transfer roller and a transfer pressure roller or back up roller mounted adjacent to each other and through a front roller plate secured to front exterior of a cigarette making machine. Each of a plurality of rollers is fixedly mounted to the front roller plate and those rollers provide guides for a path over which the paper web travels from a bobbin not shown to the additive applicator and on to other regions of the cigarette making machine .

Positioned adjacent to the major roller is a reservoir for the additive material. The reservoir is maintained in place and secured to the front roller plate by bolts not shown or other suitable connection means. The reservoir is connected to a source not shown of additive material e.g. a formulation having the form of a paste through port near the top region of the reservoir . As such a source of additive material for the major roller is provided. Typically the additive material is supplied through tubing not shown such as Tygon type tubing that feeds the reservoir through port . The additive applicator provides a sealed path for flow of the additive material to the point of deposit onto the major roller . The reservoir includes at least two ports not shown on the side thereof adjacent to the major roller . One port is an output port positioned near the middle of the reservoir through which additive material is supplied to the major roller . At least one other port is an input port through which excess additive material is scraped from the edges of the major roller and is fed back into the reservoir .

The reservoir is attached to an assembly that is designed to exert pressure upon that reservoir. Such a pressure exerting assembly includes a reservoir pad that is positioned adjacent to the reservoir . The reservoir pad is held in position by a reservoir pad retainer which encompasses the reservoir pad . Compression springs are positioned between the reservoir pad retainer and a reservoir spring retainer and provide resistance for tightening of the reservoir spring retainer toward the reservoir . Screws or other suitable connection means are positioned through each side of the reservoir spring retainer through the center of each respective compression spring and through a passage in each side of the reservoir pad retainer . The screws are movable in and out of respective passages of the reservoir pad retainer . The threaded ends of the screws are positioned in threaded contact with threaded walls of the passages of the reservoir pad so as to supply the application of pressure to the reservoir pad when pressure is exerted against the reservoir spring retainer .

An adjustment screw mounting plate is attached to the front roller plate adjacent to the reservoir spring retainer . An adjustment screw is threaded through the adjustment screw mounting plate into contact with the reservoir spring retainer . When the adjustment screw is adjusted a predetermined amount inward into increasingly compressive contact with reservoir spring retainer pressure is applied by the screws to the reservoir pad . As a result a predetermined amount of pressure is exerted on the paste reservoir . The additive material formulation is caused to flow to the reservoir by application of head pressure supplied from an upstream pumping system not shown or other suitable means. The additive applicator also can be equipped with sensors and control devices not shown of the type described previously with reference to .

A scraper plate is connected to the reservoir . A compression spring is positioned between a scraper and the scraper plate such that the scraper is urged into operative contact with the roll face of the major roller . As such excess additive material on the surface of the roll face of the major roller is scraped from that roll face as the moving major roller passes the scraper and that material is deposited back into the reservoir . Thus additive material carried by the major roller for transfer to the paper web is located in the desired location within the pockets located on the roll face of that roller.

Rollers together with transfer pressure roller are positioned on a roller lift bracket . The roller lift bracket is designed to be moved downward by the forces applied by air cylinder about a lift bracket pivot plate . The air cylinder is connected to a source of pressurized air not shown and is employed to provide for movement of the roller lift bracket . The roller lift bracket is attached on one end to the front roller plate about lift bracket pivot plate through roller lift bracket pivot pin and the lift bracket is movable. The roller lift bracket further includes a lift bracket pivot sleeve which is slidingly attached on the end opposite the pivot pin to lift bracket pivot plate .

In operation the transfer pressure roller and rollers can be moved about the pivot pin so as to be positioned into and out of contact with the upper surface of the paper web . When the transfer pressure roller is moved into operative contact with the major roller the transfer pressure roller rotates under the power of the major roller but in the opposite direction to that of the major roller. Preferably the major roller rotates clockwise and the transfer pressure roller rotates counter clockwise. The transfer pressure roller thus preferably contacts the advancing paper web at a point of engagement of the roll faces of the transfer pressure roller and the major roller . As a result of the pressured contact experienced by the paper web as it travels between transfer pressure roller and the major roller additive material is applied to the paper web in a predetermined pattern. Movement of the roller lift bracket transfer pressure roller and rollers into and out of contact with the paper web can programmed and as such a microprocessor associated with the operation of the cigarette making machine can be used to control movement of that lift bracket . The roller lift bracket can be controlled by a signal received from the cigarette making machine in order that the bracket can be retracted and the paper web can be moved so as to not be in contact with the various rollers when the cigarette making machine is not in normal operation and as such problems associated with sticking of the paper web to various components of the applicator apparatus are minimized avoided or prevented.

Referring to there are shown relevant components of a portion of an additive applicator apparatus representative of one aspect of the present invention. The major roller possesses a roll face having a pattern of recessed grooves or pockets thus providing a pocketed wheel. The diameter of the major roller can vary but suitable major roller has a diameter of about 104 mm. Exemplary grooves provide spaced bands located so as to extend perpendicularly to the longitudinal axis of a paper web and across a portion of the width of that paper web and are generally box like in shape. The dimensions of the grooves can vary and are dependent upon factors such as the pattern of application that is desired but suitable grooves have depths of about 2 mils longitudinally extending lengths of about 5 mm and transversely extending lengths of about 23 mm. Those grooves are designed to contain additive material not shown and to transfer that additive material to a paper web not shown that contacts that roller face as the paper web travels past the roll face of the major roller . As such for the pattern shown spaced apart bands are applied at predetermined intervals transversely to the longitudinal axis of the continuous paper web. That is the recessed grooves provide a location for a predetermined amount of additive material to be deposited on a paper web and the size and shape of those grooves is a matter of design choice. The major roller is manufactured from materials such as stainless steel hardened carbon steel or the like.

The roller lift bracket supports rollers and back up roller . Back up roller or soft faced roller typically is manufactured from stainless steel or hardened carbon steel and the roll surface is provided by an overlying band or ring of a suitable material such as a rubber type or elastomeric material. Suitable soft faced rollers are adapted from those types of commonly used for component parts of conventional cigarette making machines and are manufactured from materials commonly used in conventional cigarette making machines. The roller lift bracket also supports the air cylinder and the pivot plate . The diameter of the back up roller can vary but a suitable back up roller has a diameter of about 40 mm.

The reservoir for the additive material is assembled along with the reservoir spring retainer the adjustment screw mounting plate the adjustment screw scraper and the scraper plate .

Positioned on the front roller plate are a plurality of rollers and an opening . The major roller is connected to a roller drive shaft that passes through opening and to an applicator drive shaft box that is in turn connected to a roller gear . A belt extends about the roller gear and around a pulley mounted to a power drive assembly . Rotational power is provided from the power drive assembly to the roller gear to the roller shaft and to the major roller . Timing belt pulley can be used to receive input regarding the speed of operation of the cigarette making machine and hence can be use in conjunction with a belt not shown to time operation of the other components of the applicator apparatus .

Referring to there are shown relevant components of a portion of yet another additive applicator apparatus representative of one aspect of the present invention. Other components of the additive applicator apparatus and the general operation thereof are described previously with reference to . Such an applicator is particularly useful for applying to a paper web more viscous additive materials. More viscous additive materials useful in applications involving cigarette paper include for example paste type formulations of additive materials having viscosities of greater than 100 000 centipoises.

Additive applicator is an assembly including a major pick up transfer roller that is generally similar to that pocketed roller described previously with reference to . For example the diameter of the major roller can be about 104 mm and the major roller can be manufactured from materials such as stainless steel hardened carbon steel and the like. Several rollers not shown are fixedly mounted to the front roller plate and those rollers provide guides for a path over which the paper web travels from a bobbin not shown to the additive applicator between the roll faces of major roller and back up roller and on to other regions of the cigarette making machine .

Positioned adjacent to the major roller is a reservoir for the additive material. The reservoir is maintained in place and secured to the front roller plate by bolts not shown or other suitable connection means. The reservoir is connected to a source not shown of additive material e.g. a formulation having the form of a paste through the top region of the reservoir . As such a source of additive material for the major roller is provided. A portion of the reservoir is shown in phantom in order to show more clearly the positioning of a portion of the major roller within the reservoir and to more clearly show the positioning of the scrapers against the roll face and side respectively of the major roller. Typically the additive material is supplied through tubing not shown such as Tygon type tubing that feeds the reservoir through a port not shown . The additive applicator provides a path for flow of the additive material to the point of deposit onto the major roller .

A scraper is connected to the body of the reservoir . The scraper is urged into operative contact with the roll face of the major roller . As such excess additive material on the surface of the roll face of the major roller is scraped from that roll face as the moving major roller passes the scraper and that material is deposited back into the reservoir . Thus additive material carried by the major roller for transfer to the paper web is located in the desired location within the pockets located on the roll face of that roller. Against the front side face of major roller is positioned a scraper . A corresponding scraper not shown is positioned against the back side face of the major roller . As such the roll face and both side faces are subjected to surface treatment by three scraper pieces arranged in a U like configuration so as to remove undesirable excess additive formulation from those surfaces and hence maintain those surfaces relatively clean by maintaining those surfaces relatively free of build up of coating formulation.

Referring to there is shown one finger rail of a finger rail assembly representative of one aspect of the present invention. That finger rail is referred to as the outside finger rail and an exemplary finger rail has a length of about 22 cm. Exemplary finger rails and finger rail assemblies that can be modified in accordance with one aspect of the present invention are commercially available and the design and use of finger rails and finger rail assemblies in cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machine design and operation.

Finger rail includes a downwardly extending outside finger rail protrusion or projecting arm that gradually narrows to form a blade like lower face . At its garniture end the bottom portion of the finger rail curves gradually upward and with a gradually increasing angle towards the extreme garniture end . The finger rail is adapted to include an air chamber or manifold or other means for distributing and defining passage of air flow within the finger rail. A typical manifold has a length of about 15 cm a width of about 5 mm and a depth of about 4 mm. Such a manifold can be provided by drilling out or otherwise fashioning that region of a conventional finger rail that is manufactured from a material such as stainless steel hardened carbon steel or other suitable metal alloys. Preferably as shown the manifold is aligned so as to extend lengthwise in a generally parallel manner relative to the axis that defines the length of the finger rail. The finger rail also includes an air passageway extending through the finger rail and into the manifold near the garniture end of that finger rail and as such an air passageway extends entirely through the finger rail. The air passageway provides a path for the flow of air into the manifold that is supplied from a source of pressurized air not shown through a tube or other suitable connection means not shown from the back side of the finger rail i.e. the air passageway provides a means for introducing air flow to the air distribution means .

Extending generally downward from the manifold and along the outside face of the finger rail are several narrow air channels . Those air channels grooves or passageways are formed drilled cut etched or otherwise fashioned in the lower region of the finger rail along the length of the manifold. Thus the air flow passageways are in air flow communication with the manifold and those air flow passageways provide for exit of high velocity air flow from the finger rail. The number of air channels can vary and can be a manner of design choice. However the number of air flow passageways typically can range from about 15 to about 30 with about 18 to about 28 being preferred. Typically the air flow passageways are spaced about 6 mm apart and the width of each air flow passageway is about 20 mils. The plurality of air channels can be positioned in a random or predetermined pattern and the air channels all can point in the same direction e.g. generally downward or air channels can multi directional in nature e.g. the air channels can point generally downward downward and inwardly downward and outwardly and the like .

The finger rail further includes a manifold cover not shown that covers the outer side of the finger rail in order that air flow from the air passageway passes through the manifold and out the plurality of air channels directed out from the bottom of the finger rail. The manifold cover typically has the form of a metal plate that is secured in place to the finger rail over the manifold using epoxy type cement spot weld or other suitable means. Covering the manifold ensures the desired passage of high velocity air out of the air passageways .

Referring to there is shown one finger rail of a finger rail assembly representative of one aspect of the present invention. That finger rail is referred to as the inside finger rail and is designed to form a finger rail assembly when used in conjunction with the outside finger rail previously described with reference to . The overall design and appearance of the inside finger rail is generally similar in many regards to that of the previously described outside finger rail. However the corresponding finger rails are designed to have a somewhat mirror image or a left handedness right handedness relative to one another.

At its garniture end the bottom portion of the finger rail curves gradually upward. The finger rail also is adapted to include an air chamber or manifold. The finger rail also includes an air passageway extending through the finger rail and into the manifold near the garniture end of that finger rail. Extending downward from the manifold along the outside face of the finger rail are several narrow air channels . Those air channels are formed drilled cut etched or otherwise fashioned in the lower region of the finger rail along the length of the manifold. Most preferably those air channels are positioned in a staggered pattern along the lower region of the manifold . The finger rail further includes a manifold cover not shown .

Referring to there is shown one finger rail of a finger rail assembly representative of another aspect of the present invention. That finger rail is referred to as the outside finger rail. Exemplary finger rails and finger rail assemblies that can be modified in accordance with this aspect of the present invention also are commercially available and the design and use of finger rails and finger rail assemblies in cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machine design and operation.

The overall design and appearance of finger rail is generally similar in many regards to that of the outside finger rail previously described with reference to . The finger rail is adapted to include a generally longitudinally extending relief channel cut or otherwise fashioned along the lower outer face of the finger rail. The finger rail includes a tube for air passage and preferably the tube has a generally circular cross sectional shape. The tube extends along the relief channel and as such the tube is aligned so as to extend lengthwise in a generally parallel manner relative to the axis that defines the length of the finger rail. The tube is secured to the finger rail using epoxy type cement spot weld or other suitable attachment means. The tube provides a path for the flow of air that is supplied to the other end of that tube from a source of pressurized air not shown through a tube or other suitable connection means not shown from a region relatively remote from the finger rail . That is it is preferable that one end of the tube is open to receive a source of high velocity air and the other end of tube is sealed or closed to as to prevent the exit of air flow therefrom. The inner diameter of tube can vary but typically such a tube can have an inner diameter of about 2 mm to about 5 mm.

The tube includes a plurality of air distribution outlets that extend along its length and in its lower region such that air passing through the tube flows out of those outlets and is directed generally downward. As such the tube is in functional alignment with the finger rail. A typical tube possesses air distribution outlets extending about 15 cm along its length. The air distribution outlets are a series of small openings or narrow passageways arranged and those passageways can be positioned in a predetermined random or staggered pattern. By staggered is meant that the various air channels are arranged in a non linear fashion the distances between individual air channels are not necessarily all the same or the various air channels direct air in different directions. One representative pattern of air channels is composed of two longitudinally extending rows that are offset from one another e.g in a zig zag type pattern and the openings of the inside row are designed to direct air flow generally straight downward and the openings of the outside row are designed to direct air flow downward and outward.

The dimensions of the air passageways can vary but suitable air passageways are small openings. The cross sectional shape of those openings can vary but suitable openings of generally circular cross sectional shape often are about 20 mils in diameter. Normally the number of those narrow air channels extending downward from the tube ranges from about 15 to about 30 with about 18 to about 28 being preferred.

Referring to there is shown one finger rail of a finger rail assembly representative of one aspect of the present invention. That finger rail is referred to as the inside finger rail and is designed to form a finger rail assembly when used in conjunction with the outside finger rail previously described with reference to . The overall design and appearance of the inside finger rail is generally similar in many regards to that of the outside finger rail previously described with reference to . The finger rail also is adapted to include tube for air passage. Extending downward from the tube are several narrow air channels preferably in a staggered arrangement. Those air channels are located in the lower region of the finger rail along a portion of the length of the tube .

The finger rails that are described with reference to are properly assembled into finger rail assemblies on cigarette making machines. In operation those finger rail assemblies are provided with a supply of pressurized air that enters the relevant air passageways and chambers of the finger rails. That moving air then passes out of the numerous air distribution outlets that direct the flow of air generally downward. The relative dimensions e.g. the inside diameters of the various air distribution outlets depend upon factors such as the desired rate of air flow and related fluid dynamics. For most applications an air flow rate is determined by experimentation and the amount of airflow employed to provide the desired or optimum operation is a matter of design choice. In a preferred embodiment the supply of pressurized air provides a continuous flow of air sufficient to reach each air distribution outlet along the length of an air supply tube or manifold such that a substantially equal rate of air flow from each air distribution outlet is achieved. A consistent air flow rate from each finger rail air distribution outlet in a staggered pattern has the tendency to promote formation of the desired turbulent air flow pattern below the finger rail assembly.

Referring to there is shown an embodiment of another aspect of the present invention. A modified garniture entrance cone is designed to be positioned within a cigarette making machine in a region below the finger rail assembly not shown . Exemplary entrance cones that can be modified in accordance with one aspect of the present invention are commercially available and the design and use of entrance cones in cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machine design and operation. An exemplary garniture entrance cone has a length of about 23 cm a width of about 5 cm and a maximum height of about 2 cm. Typically the entrance cone is manufactured from materials such as stainless steel hardened carbon steel aluminum alloys and the like. Modified entrance cones can be of multi piece construction such as is shown in or one piece construction.

Garniture entrance cone includes a downstream section an upstream section and a modified upper insert for a portion of the upper region of the upstream section. The entrance cone possesses a generally concave upper surface . Within that upper surface are opposing longitudinally extending lower lateral aspects and within the upstream section are corresponding opposing upper lateral aspects . Each of the lower lateral aspects and each of the upper lateral aspects are positioned on opposite sides of a longitudinally extending concave upper surface .

An entrance cone of the type of the present invention also includes a first longitudinal extending air flow passage slot or gap located between lower lateral aspect and upper lateral aspect and a second longitudinally extending front air flow passage slot or gap located between the lower lateral aspect and upper lateral aspect . Preferably the overall shapes of the two slots on each side upper portion of the upstream section of the entrance cone are such that those slots are mirror images of one another. Typically the width of each slot ranges from about 0.5 mil to about 3 mils with about 1 mil to about 2 mils being preferred. The entrance cone includes an air entrance chamber on the bottom side of the entrance cone or in any other suitable location. An exemplary air entrance chamber or port is a tube like member that provides a generally circular air entrance opening of about 9 mm in diameter. A source of air for a fast moving air stream is provided from a suitable source such as a laboratory type pressurized or compressed air source not shown and the air entrance chamber is suitably connected to the supply of pressurized air by a suitable connection means such as Tygon type tubing or the like. The air flow introduced through the air entrance chamber preferably passes through a manifold or passageway system not shown located within the entrance cone and passes out of the longitudinally extending air slots . For an exemplary entrance cone those air slots preferably are positioned so as to extend length wise about 14.5 cm. As such the air slots extend along the entrance cone that distance that the finger rail assembly not shown overlies the finger rail when configured under normal assembly within a cigarette making machine however the air slots can extend a lesser distance or a greater distance. Those slots also each can be positioned at angles that extend upward and outward. Typically the angles are at least about 45 relative to horizontal at the extreme upstream end of the entrance cone and the angles gradually becomes steeper along the length of the extreme cone such that the angles are at least about 75 at the extreme downstream ends of those slots. As such that air flow is directed from slot toward the upper lateral aspect and from slot upwards and outwards toward the upper lateral aspect .

Referring to the representative garniture entrance cone includes downstream section that is longitudinally aligned with upstream section . Those sections are maintained in place relative to one another using male pegs not shown that are inserted into cooperating female grooves . Preferably for an entrance cone of about 23 mm total length the upstream section has a length of about 14.5 mm. Typically the length of the upper insert and the entire length of the upstream section are essentially equal to one another. Normally the lengths of the upstream section and the upper insert and the positioning of each of those sections correspond to that region of the entrance cone that is located immediately below the overlying portion of the finger rail assembly not shown when those components are properly assembled within a cigarette making machine not shown . The upper insert is designed to provide the designed concave surface structure to a portion of the upper surface of the garniture entrance cone . Beneath the upper insert is provided a cavity that provides a type of manifold for air flow that is introduced through air inlet . For a representative upstream section having a length of about 14.5 cm a suitable manifold has a length of about 14.5 cm a depth of about 0.5 mm to about 1 mm and a width of about 7 mm to about 15 mm. Thus air entering the manifold passes out of the slots or grooves not shown that are located between i the bottom and sides of the upper insert and ii the top and sizes of the upstream section . The upper insert and the upstream section are maintained in place relative to one another using appropriately located pegs and grooves and suitable adhesives materials e.g. epoxy type cement .

Referring to there is shown a region of a cigarette making machine representative of that of the types of cigarette making machines described previously with reference to . In particular there is shown the entrance region of the garniture section of a cigarette making machine . There is shown a cross sectional end view of a finger rail assembly that is representative of one aspect of the present invention and an entrance cone that has been adapted in accordance with another aspect of the present invention. Additionally there is shown tobacco filler held by foraminous belt that is supported by roller shown as partially cut away . There also is shown garniture conveyor belt and paper web having additive material applied to one surface of that paper web.

The finger rail assembly includes two complementary finger rails that is front finger rail and back finger rail . The finger rails are of the type described previously with reference to respectively. That is each finger rail possesses a plurality of spaced downwardly extending air passageways from manifolds respectively. For the cross sectional view shown the positioning of the air passageways is staggered thus the region of the back finger rail that is shown possesses a downwardly extending air passageway while the region of the front finger rail shown is not a region where a downwardly extending air passageway has been positioned. Manifold covers cover a portion of the outside faces of finger rails respectively. Those manifold covers are secured in place by suitable means such as spot welds or epoxy type cement.

The finger rails both are positioned in their normal essentially parallel spaced apart alignment above entrance cone such that the downwardly projecting arms defined by the shape of those finger rails form opposing sides of a substantially rectangular longitudinally extending passageway channel or track . The foraminous belt and the tobacco filler cake supported and transported by that belt travel through the upper region of that track .

A portion of the garniture entrance cone includes a downwardly concave or semicircular upper surface face . As such the passageway is defined by an upper region or surface provided by the foraminous belt two side surfaces defined by the positioning of finger rails and lower surface provided by the upper surface face of the entrance cone . The garniture conveyor belt conveys the wrapper web across the upper surface of the entrance cone . After the tobacco filler is deposited onto the advancing paper web the semicircular configuration of a portion of the upper surface of the entrance cone helps form the paper web and the stream of tobacco filler thereon into a rod like shape having the desired cross sectional shape e.g. generally circular . The upper surface of the garniture entrance cone can be chemically or physically surface treated if desired. For example the garniture entrance cone upper surface can be treated so as to have a surface of a ceramic material having a low coefficient of friction.

Each of the opposing edges at each end of the inside surface of the paper web can have the tendency to come into contact with the lower region of the finger rail assembly and in particular the lower regions or downwardly protruding arms or portions of each respective finger rail . Typically the inside surface of portions of the paper web come into contact with portions of the finger rail assembly above the entrance cone . When the inside surface of the paper web has been coated with an additive material that can have the form of an adhesive type coating formulation and the inside surface of the paper web reaches the garniture entrance cone and finger rail assembly that additive material still can be wet tacky or sticky. As a result some of that additive material can exhibit a tendency to stick onto portions of the finger rail assembly .

A fast moving gas stream exits the finger rail assembly in the region in the bottom region of finger rails but above the paper web . The fast moving gas stream is provided from a suitable source such as a laboratory type pressurized or compressed air source not shown . The temperature of the gas can vary and air of essentially ambient temperature heated air or cooled air can be used. Although not preferred for most applications the gas stream can comprise steam. Preferably air flow is provided through a T type connection tube not shown connected to a supply tube such that air enters the air inlet passageways not shown and into the respective manifolds through the respective back faces of each finger rail. The downward force of the air stream as well as a suitably designed pattern of airflow from the finger rail assembly e.g. such as a staggered pattern of air distribution outlets not shown results in the creation of a zone of air turbulence above the paper web . The downward forces created by such an air stream act to maintain the paper web and particularly the opposing edges thereof spaced away from the adjacent surfaces of the finger rail assembly . Consequently as the paper web advances underneath the finger rail assembly the additive material on the inside surface of the paper web is effectively prevented from being transferred to lower regions of the finger rail assembly . As a result the air above the paper web is sufficiently agitated to maintain the paper web a distance away from the lower surfaces of the finger rails . A staggered pattern of air distribution outlets assists in avoiding the formation of a laminar type air flow down onto the advancing paper web . Certain downwardly directed air flows patterns e.g. certain patterns that are not turbulent in nature can have a tendency to produce a zone of low air pressure above the paper web and such types of air flow patterns can result in the paper web being drawn into contact with the lower surface region of the finger assembly .

Additionally a fast moving gas stream can exit manifold through longitudinally extending air slots extending within the upper surface of entrance cone can be positioned in alignment such that air flow is directed toward the edges of the paper web . The fast moving gas stream is provided from a suitable source not shown . The temperature of the gas can vary and air of essentially ambient temperature heated air or cooled air can be used. Although not preferred for most applications the gas stream can comprise steam. The previously described downward force of the air stream provided from the modified finger rail assembly as well as a suitably designed pattern of airflow from the entrance cone results in the creation of a low air pressure zone below the paper web . The downward forces created by such an air stream act to maintain the paper web and particularly the opposing edges thereof spaced away from the adjacent surfaces of the finger rail assembly . That is the paper web is effectively drawn away from the finger rail assembly . Additionally the entrance cone air outlets or other suitable air exit or distribution means are directed toward each of opposing edges of the paper web that overlies that entrance cone. Thus the direction of air flow through the longitudinal air slots of the entrance cone relative to the edges of the paper web causes the formation of a low air pressure zone below the paper web . The edges of the paper web are caused to be drawn down onto the respective upper lateral aspects of the entrance cone concave upper surface . Those edges are thereby effectively pulled away from contact with components of the finger rail assembly . As a result transfer of the additive material from the inside surface of the paper web is avoided minimized or prevented from being transferred to the finger rail assembly as the paper web advances underneath that assembly.

Air flow from the finger rails from the entrance cone or from a combination of air flow from both the finger rails and from the entrance cone allows air flow rates from above below or both from above and below the paper web . As such a desirable smooth movement of the paper web between the finger rail assembly and the entrance cone is facilitated while maintaining the paper web a desirable distance away from components of the finger rail assembly. The degree of air flow through the finger rails and through the entrance cone that is sufficient to achieve optimum operation can be determined by experimentation and can be a matter of design choice.

Referring to there is shown a block diagram of registration and inspection systems representative of various aspects of the present invention. Such a system is useful for inspecting and assisting in the control of manufacture of cigarettes not shown that are manufactured from a continuous paper web possessing a predetermined pattern such as a plurality of bands . The paper web is routed near a detection system . The detection system can be spectroscopic system such as a non contact ultrasonic transmission system or a near infrared NIR absorption system. Such a detection system can be characterized as a non optical type of detection system. A typical detection system includes a transducer sensor component and a processor analyzer component . A typical ultrasonic detection system utilizes a transducer and an analyzer. A preferred ultrasonic detection system is available as Model NCT 210 P2 6.3 mm 1 MHz transducer and NCA 1000 2 EN analyzer available from SecondWave Systems Corp. A typical NIR system utilizes a sensor and a processor. A preferred NIR detection system utilizes a GD 100W NIR sensor with a 100 microsecond response time and G NET Verification System processor available from Nordson Corporation. Typically detector systems possess response times sufficient to provide adequate information regarding a continuous paper web that is moving at speeds customary on conventional cigarette making machines.

NIR reflectance systems are particularly preferred spectroscopic systems for inspecting samples such as paper webs that are considered to be opaque. See edited by Phil Williams and Karl Norris Published by the American Association of Cereal Chemists Inc. St. Paul Minn. USA. Typically the radiation emission source and detector are housed in the sensor body and a fiber optic bundle guides the incident light to the paper web through a focusing lens in order to achieve a spot size of about 3 mm. Typically the reflected radiation is collected by the same lens and fiber optic bundle and directed back to the detector . Such components of such a system typically have a response time of about 100 microseconds which is sufficiently fast to detect bands on a cigarette making machine running at speeds sufficient to produce about 8 000 cigarette rods per minute and having either 1 or 2 bands per cigarette rod. For example for a tobacco rod length of 60 mm a nominal tobacco rod making speed of 8 000 rods per minute and a single band of adhesive of 5 mm width per rod the detection time for each rod is about 625 microseconds.

NIR spectroscopy measures the chemical concentration of constituents in a sample in the wavelength range of about 850 nm to about 2500 nm. Radiation within such wavelengths can be generated using gratings band pass interference filters diodes or high speed electronically controlled acousto optic transmission filters AOTF . Exemplary detectors used in NIR spectrophotometric systems are lead sulfide PbS silicon Si and indium gallium arsenide InGaAs detectors. NIR based systems can be used to detect the presence of chemical constituents such as water other components of the coating formulations applied to the paper web or marker materials that are incorporated into the coating formulations. For many additive formulations that are applied to paper webs in accordance with the on line application techniques of the present invention those formulations incorporate water e.g. in many instances at least about 40 weight percent and usually at least about 50 weight percent of the applied coating formulation is water . Water has strong absorbance bands at 1450 nm and 1940 nm.

A PLC based control system provides overall supervisory control of the cigarette manufacturing process. For example the PLC based control system can receive process and provide process control information concerning pattern application of additive material to the paper web inspection of the paper web conditions associated with drying of additive material that has been applied to the paper web and rejection of cigarettes that do not meet certain specifications. A suitable PLC based system is available as SIMATIC S7 300 controller model 6ES7 315 2AF03 0AB0 available from Siemens Energy and Automation Incorporated.

During cigarette manufacture when the cigarette making machine reaches the preset speed and cigarette production is underway the cigarette making machine sends a high speed enable signal to the PLC . The PLC processes that signal and generates an output signal to a servo control system which in turn instructs the servo motor not shown to engage the additive applicator apparatus for operation i.e. the roller system is instructed to position itself into operative engagement and begin operation for additive material application . An output signal representative of the pattern sensed by the detection system is sent to the PLC for processing and the PLC determines among other things if there is a fault and if cigarette rod rejection is required. In addition the detection system sends a second signal i.e. a tolerance fault that indicates if pattern deviation e.g. a band width deviation is within or beyond a predetermined tolerance level. If a band is missing or out of tolerance i.e. is an incorrect size such an event is noted and the PLC determines whether to reject a cigarette or shut down the cigarette making machine by communication with the cigarette making machine. Internal shift registers within the PLC are used to keep track of the reject cigarette rod information sent to the cigarette maker control system for rejection of the reject tobacco rods at the selected downstream rejection location not shown . The PLC also determines if system shut down is required e.g. if consecutive sets of rejects above a set value thereby indicating a major or catastrophic fault requiring machine operator intervention and the shutdown signal is sent to the control system not shown within the cigarette making machine . The reject signal is also sent to a database for recording to compute efficiency information and any faults generated by the PLC are sent through the cigarette making machine control system not shown to a graphical display for feed back to the machine operator. Information from the cigarette making machine also is sent to the database .

For a system designed to detect applied patterned bands on a paper web such a detection system receives two input signals . For example the first signal can be a trigger signal that corresponds to a 1 1 ratio with the flying knife cut position of the continuous tobacco rod i.e. one cut is represented by one pulse and the second signal being an encoder signal that corresponds to the speed of the continuous cigarette rod. In addition to the presence or absence of an applied band the position of such a band within a rod and the width of that band can be determined by the combination of these two in put signals .

Certain cigarette making machine components can be driven using a servo drive control system or other suitable motion control means. Using servo control systems the speed acceleration rate position and torque of a motor not shown can be programmed digitally. An internal encoder is integrated into the motor housing not shown for an internal feed back for the servo motor not shown . A servo based drive control system comprises a controller amplifier and a servo motor that is used to match or synchronize with the speed of the continuous cigarette rod in order to apply and position a desired pattern e.g. one or two bands on what is ultimately each individual cigarette rod. This is accomplished by using input signals from an encoder . Signal from encoder that is mechanically linked to a suitable rotating shaft not shown of the cigarette rod making machine provides information regarding the speed and position of the cut off knife. In addition the second signal is timed to the cut of point of the cut off knife in order to reference the cut position of each individual cigarette rod. The detector detects the presence of the additive material applied on the paper web and signal also is fed to the servo controller . This signal is processed and the result is compared to a previously determined pre programmed acceptance positional window. That is the output signal concerning that detected information e.g. information regarding positioning of a band on the paper web is compared to that of what is expected for a paper web that is within desired specifications. The servo controller also receives a signal from encoder to synchronize the operation of the applicator apparatus with the speed of operation of the cigarette making machine . As such the servo controller directs the applicator apparatus to i correct the operation of the application apparatus so as to provide corrected and proper registration by phase adjustment in the servo control system and ii generates out of register fault to cause further processing within the PLC to determine whether to reject cigarettes that are not within certain specified specifications or to shut down the cigarette making machine. For example when a band that is applied to the paper web is out of registration the servo motor temporarily speeds up or slows down to allow the positioning the pattern of additive material on the paper web to return back within the desired and specified registration.

Servo control systems and the operation thereof will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machine design and operation. Representative servo systems are readily available as Single Axis Controller P N DKC03.3 040 7FW FWA EDODR3 FGP 04VRS MS Motor P N MKD025 144 KP1 KN SERVO MOTOR from Indramat Ultra 5000 Single Axis P N 2098 IPD 010 Motor P N Y 2012 1 H00AA from Allen Bradly and Servo P N SC752A 001 01 Motor P N R34 GENA HS NG NV 00 from Pacific Scientific.

Registration of the transversely positioned bands of additive material on a continuous paper web so as to be within a tolerance window is a very desirable feature when those bands are used for the production of cigarettes that meet certain standards with regards to low ignition propensity criteria. In accordance with one aspect of the present invention registration of the patterns e.g. bands applied to continuous paper webs within a tolerance window can be carried out whether the patterns are applied off line e.g. as pre printed patterns or on line e.g. as patterns applied on the cigarette making apparatus . In particular a 2 axes control system i.e. a system that controls two independent motors is used within the cigarette making apparatus in conjunction with a high speed band sensor i.e. which is fast enough to respond to nominal cigarette making speeds . A first servo motor drives the flying knife of the cigarette making machine. The knife position at rod cut off location is derived by an encoder mechanically coupled to the cut off knife and this signal is used as a reference point for determining the position of the band. A second servo motor drives the garniture belt and the foraminous conveyor belt and a second encoder provides the feedback regarding cigarette making speed. The detector senses a band and the location of that band with respect to the cutoff knife. If the bands are out of registration on the cigarette rods the servo control system typically slows down the garniture belt relative to the cut off knife so that the knife temporally will cut shorter rods until the continuous tobacco rod is in registration. This can be achieved either by speeding up the cut off knife or slowing down the garniture belt. For example the system can be programmed to make a small adjustment per rod e.g. such as 1 mm per cut change per rod so as to walk the system into to registration as smoothly as possible. However for smaller adjustments longer periods are required to bring the cigarette rods back within the tolerance window and hence more short cigarettes will be rejected. Such a registration system is particularly useful for making adjustments i during cigarette making machine start up ii during machine operation after recovery from a shutdown or after a new bobbin of paper web is spliced into the machine iii during normal cigarette making machine operation due to factors such as stretching of the paper web.

Referring to there is shown an additive application control system timing diagram for band registration on a continuous paper web. The band on the paper web is detected by a sensor and a corresponding output signal is generated. A signal that coincides to the cut off location of a cigarette rod also is generated. A related signal corresponding to the position of the rod relative to the cut off knife location on the cigarette rod also is generated. The sensor output is compared to the other two signals. Such a comparison allows for the determination of location of the sensed band and determination that the location is within an acceptable specified window. Thus for example it is possible to consistently produce a plurality of cigarette rods each cigarette rod possessing one band having a width of 5 mm that is positioned 25 mm from the lighting end of each such cigarette rod.

Referring to there is shown an additive application control system timing diagram for band registration on a continuous paper web and two bands are shown as being out of position. The band on the paper web is detected by a sensor and an output signal is generated. A signal that coincides to the cut off location of a cigarette rod also is generated. A related signal corresponding to the position of the rod relative to the cut off knife location on the cigarette rod also is generated. The sensor output is compared to the other two signals. Such a comparison allows for the determination of location of the sensed band and determination that location is not within an acceptable specified window i.e. whether the band is leading or lagging . Thus the servo control system can be used to adjust operation of the application apparatus back into registration by phase correction. In addition a fault signal for both leading or lagging bands which do not fit into the expected registration window are generated for all the out of registration rods and sent to the PLC for processing for rejection at the proper location of the system.

Referring to there is shown an additive application control system timing diagram for band registration on a continuous paper web and that band is shown to be too narrow to meet specifications. The band on the paper web is detected by a sensor and an output signal is generated. A related signal corresponding to the position of the rod relative to the cut off knife location on the cigarette rod also is generated. The sensor output is compared to the other two signals. Such a comparison allows for the determination of width of the sensed band and determination that width is not within an acceptable specified window. A fault signal for that out of specification band is sent to the PLC for further processing for rejection or shut down of the cigarette maker.

Referring to there is shown an additive application control system timing diagram for band registration on a continuous paper web and that band is shown to be too wide to meet specifications. The band on the paper web is detected by a sensor and an output signal is generated. A related signal corresponding to the position of the rod relative to the cut off knife location on the cigarette rod also is generated. The sensor output is compared to the other two signals. Such a comparison allows for the determination of width of the sensed band and determination that width is not within an acceptable specified window. A fault signal for that out of specification band is sent to the PLC for further processing for rejection or shut down of the cigarette maker.

The various components systems and methods can be employed individually or in various combinations with one another. In one regard a cigarette making machine assembly can incorporate an on line additive application system for a paper web a modified finger rail assembly and or a modified garniture entrance cone a registration system an inspection system and heating cooling control system each of which are of the type that have been described as various aspects of the present invention. In another regard for example the on line additive application systems can be incorporated into cigarette making machine assemblies without any or all of those other components that have been described as various aspects of the present invention. In another regard for example the modified finger rail assemblies and or the modified garniture entrance cones can be incorporated into cigarette making machine assemblies that do not possess any or all of those other components or features that have been described as various aspects of the present invention. In addition for example cigarette making machine assemblies possessing on line application systems modified finger rail assemblies and or modified garniture entrance cones and heating cooling control systems of the types of the present invention can be employed without using registration systems and or inspection systems. Likewise for example cigarette making machine assemblies possessing registration systems and or inspection systems of the types of the present inventions can be employed without using those modified finger rail assemblies modified garniture entrance cones and or heating cooling control systems that have been described as various aspects of the present invention.

The various aspects of the present invention whether employed individually or in some combination offer several advantages and improvements to conventional systems and methods for cigarette manufacture. The present invention allows a cigarette manufacturer to apply predetermined and discrete amounts of an additive material to a continuous advancing strip of a paper web at desired locations on that paper web during the manufacture of a continuous cigarette rod using conventional types of cigarette making equipment and methodologies. Of particular interest are bands of additive material that are positioned perpendicularly to the longitudinal axis of the paper web and those bands can be positioned so as to extend across less than the total width of that paper web. As such the location of additive material can be controlled so as to not be located in the lap zone of the continuous cigarette rod e.g. where the side seam adhesive is applied . Thus for example a continuous paper web having a width of about 27 mm and used to provide a cigarette rod having a circumference of about 24.5 mm i.e. such that the lap zone has a width of about 2.5 mm can have a band applied to that web such that the band is not located within the lap zone where side seam adhesive is applied and as such such a band can have a transversely extending length of about 22 mm to about 24.5 mm. The present invention allows a cigarette manufacturer to apply to paper webs additive formulations that have a wide range of chemical and physical properties and that are provided for application in a wide variety of forms e.g. a wide range of viscosities . The finger rail modifications the garniture entrance cone modifications and the heating cooling control systems of the present invention provide a manufacturer of cigarettes an efficient and effective way to produce cigarettes having additive material applied to the wrapping materials of those cigarette rods in an on line fashion during the manufacture of those cigarette rods. That is the present invention advantageously provides a means for retaining an additive material on a paper web and preventing transfer of the additive material to the surfaces of various components of a cigarette making machine. In addition the present invention allows a manufacturer of cigarettes to apply additive materials to paper webs without adversely affecting the physical properties and integrity of that paper web to any significant degree. Registration of patterns e.g. bands applied to the paper wrapping materials of tobacco rods promotes the ability of cigarette manufacturers to provide consistent quality cigarette rods and the ability to control the properties of cigarettes through on line production techniques offers advantages over cigarettes that are manufactured using pre printed paper wrapping materials. The present invention also provides a manufacturer of cigarettes with the ability to ensure the production of high quality cigarettes with applied patterns registered in the desired locations of those cigarettes.

Certain preferred paper wrapping materials used in carrying out the present invention are useful for the manufacture of cigarettes designed to exhibit reduced ignition propensity. That is cigarettes incorporating certain wrapping materials when placed on a flammable substrate tend to self extinguish before burning that substrate. Of particular interest are those cigarettes possessing tobacco rods manufactured using appropriate wrapping materials possessing bands composed of appropriate amounts of appropriate components so as to have the ability to meet certain cigarette extinction criteria.

The paper wrapping material that is further processed to provide the patterned wrapping material can have a wide range of compositions and properties. The selection of a particular wrapping material will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. Typical paper wrapping materials are manufactured from fibrous materials and optional filler materials to form so called base sheets. Wrapping materials of the present invention can be manufactured without significant modifications to the production techniques or processing equipment used to manufacture those wrapping materials.

Typical wrapping material base sheets suitable for use as the circumscribing wrappers of tobacco rods for cigarettes have basis weights that can vary. Typical dry basis weights of base sheets are at least about 15 g m and frequently are at least about 20 g m while typical dry basis weights do not exceed about 80 g m and frequently do not exceed about 60 g m. Many preferred wrapping material base sheets have basis weights of less than 50 g m and even less than 40 g m. Certain preferred paper wrapping material base sheets have basis weights between about 20 g mand about 30 g m.

Typical wrapping material base sheets suitable for use as the circumscribing wrappers of tobacco rods for cigarettes have inherent porosities that can vary. Typical base sheets have inherent porosities that are at least about 5 CORESTA units usually are at least about 10 CORESTA units often are at least about 15 CORESTA units and frequently are at least about 20 CORESTA units. Typical base sheets have inherent porosities that are less than about 200 CORESTA units usually are less than about 150 CORESTA units often are less than about 85 CORESTA units and frequently are less than about 70 CORESTA units. A CORESTA unit is a measure of the linear air velocity that passes through a 1 cmarea of wrapping material at a constant pressure of 1 centibar. See CORESTA Publication ISO TC0126 SC I N159E 1986 . The term inherent porosity refers to the porosity of that wrapping material itself to the flow of air. A particularly preferred paper wrapping material base sheet is composed of wood pulp and calcium carbonate and exhibits an inherent porosity of about 20 to about 50 CORESTA units.

Typical paper wrapping material base sheets suitable for use as the circumscribing wrappers of tobacco rods for cigarettes incorporate at least one type of fibrous material and can incorporate at least one filler material in amounts that can vary. Typical base sheets include about 55 to about 100 often about 65 to about 95 and frequently about 70 to about 90 percent fibrous material which most preferably is a cellulosic material and about 0 to about 45 often about 5 to about 35 and frequently about 10 to about 30 percent filler material which most preferably is an inorganic material based on the dry weight of that base sheet.

The wrapping material incorporates a fibrous material. The fibrous material can vary. Most preferably the fibrous material is a cellulosic material and the cellulosic material can be a lignocellulosic material. Exemplary cellulosic materials include flax fibers hardwood pulp softwood pulp hemp fibers esparto fibers kenaf fibers jute fibers and sisal fibers. Mixtures of two or more types of cellulosic materials can be employed. For example wrapping materials can incorporate mixtures of flax fibers and wood pulp. The fibers can be bleached or unbleached. Other fibrous materials that can be incorporated within wrapping materials include microfibers materials and fibrous synthetic cellulosic materials. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 779 631 to Durocher and U.S. Pat. No. 5 849 153 to Ishino. Representative fibrous materials and methods for making wrapping materials therefrom are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 2 754 207 to Schur et al and U.S. Pat. No. 5 474 095 to Allen et al. and PCT WO 01 48318.

The wrapping material normally incorporates a filler material. Preferably the filler material has the form of essentially water insoluble particles. Additionally the filler material normally incorporates inorganic components. Filler materials incorporating calcium salts are particularly preferred. One exemplary filler material has the form of calcium carbonate and the calcium carbonate most preferably is used in particulate form. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 805 644 to Hampl U.S. Pat. No. 5 161 551 to Sanders and U.S. Pat. No. 5 263 500 to Baldwin et al. and PCT WO 01 48 316. Other filler materials include agglomerated calcium carbonate particles calcium tartrate particles magnesium oxide particles magnesium hydroxide gels magnesium carbonate type materials clays diatomaceous earth materials titanium dioxide particles gamma alumina materials and calcium sulfate particles. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 049 449 to Allegrini U.S. Pat. No. 4 108 151 to Martin U.S. Pat. No. 4 231 377 to Cline U.S. Pat. No. 4 450 847 to Owens U.S. Pat. No. 4 779 631 to Durocher U.S. Pat. No. 4 915 118 to Kaufman U.S. Pat. No. 5 092 306 to Bokelman U.S. Pat. No. 5 109 876 to Hayden U.S. Pat. No. 5 699 811 to Paine U.S. Pat. No. 5 927 288 to Bensalem U.S. Pat. No. 5 979 461 to Bensalem and U.S. Pat. No. 6 138 684 to Yamazaki and European Pat. Application 357 359. Certain filler type materials that can be incorporated into the wrapping materials can have fibrous forms. For example components of the filler material can include materials such as glass fibers ceramic fibers carbon fibers and calcium sulfate fibers. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 2 998 012 to Lamm U.S. Pat. No. 4 433 679 to Cline and U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 844 to Hayden et al. PCT WO 01 41590 and European Pat. Application 1 084 629. Mixtures of filler materials can be used. For example filler material compositions can incorporate mixtures of calcium carbonate particles and precipitated magnesium hydroxide gel mixtures of calcium carbonate particles and calcium sulfate fibers or mixtures of calcium carbonate particles and magnesium carbonate particles.

There are various ways by which the various additive components can be added to or otherwise incorporated into the base sheet. Certain additives can be incorporated into the wrapping material as part of the paper manufacturing process associated with the production of that wrapping material. Alternatively additives can be incorporated into the wrapping material using size press techniques spraying techniques printing techniques or the like. Such techniques known as off line techniques are used to apply additives to wrapping materials after those wrapping materials have been manufactured. Various additives can be added to or otherwise incorporated into the wrapping material simultaneously or at different stages during or after the paper manufacturing process.

The base sheets can be treated further and those base sheets can be treated so as to impart a change to the overall physical characteristics thereof and or so as to introduce a change in the overall chemical compositions thereof. For example the base sheet can be electrostatically perforated. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 924 888 to Perfetti et al. The base sheet also can be embossed for example in order to provide texture to major surface thereof. Additives can be incorporated into the wrapping material for a variety of reasons. Representative additives and methods for incorporating those additives to wrapping materials are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry which is incorporated herein by reference. See also U.S. Pat. No. 5 168 884 to Baldwin et al. Certain components such as alkali metal salts can act a burn control additives. Representative salts include alkali metal succinates citrates acetates malates carbonates chlorides tartrates propionates nitrates and glycolates including sodium succinate potassium succinate sodium citrate potassium citrate sodium acetate potassium acetate sodium malate potassium malate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate sodium chloride potassium chloride sodium tartrate potassium tartrate sodium propionate potassium propionate sodium nitrate potassium nitrate sodium glycolate and potassium glycolate and other salts such as monoammonium phosphate. Certain alkali earth metal salts also can be used. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 2 580 568 to Matthews U.S. Pat. No. 4 461 311 to Matthews U.S. Pat. No. 4 622 983 to Matthews U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 485 to Perfetti et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 998 541 to Perfetti et al. and PCT WO 01 08514. Certain components such as metal citrates can act as ash conditioners or ash sealers. See for example European Pat. Application 1 084 630. Other representative components include organic and inorganic acids such as malic levulinic boric and lactic acids. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 230 131 to Simon. Other representative components include catalytic materials. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 2 755 207 to Frankenburg. Typically the amount of chemical additive does not exceed about 3 percent often does not exceed about 2 percent and usually does not exceed about 1 percent based on the dry weight of the wrapping material to which the chemical additive is applied. For certain wrapping materials the amount of certain additive salts such as burn chemicals such as potassium citrate and monoammonium phosphate preferably are in the range of about 0.5 to about 0.8 percent based on the dry weight of the wrapping material to which those additive salts are applied. Relatively high levels of additive salts can be used on certain types of wrapping materials printed with printed regions that are very effective at causing extinction of cigarettes manufactured from those wrapping materials. Exemplary flax containing cigarette paper wrapping materials having relatively high levels of chemical additives have been available as Grade Names 512 525 527 540 605 and 664 from Schweitzer Mauduit International. Exemplary wood pulp containing cigarette paper wrapping materials having relatively high levels of chemical additives have been available as Grade Names 406 and 419 from Schweitzer Mauduit International.

Flavoring agents and or flavor and aroma precursors e.g. vanillin glucoside and or ethyl vanillin glucoside also can be incorporated into the paper wrapping material. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 804 002 to Herron and U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. Flavoring agents also can be printed onto cigarette papers. See for example the types of flavoring agents used in cigarette manufacture that are set forth in Gutcho Noyes Data Corp. 1972 and Leffingwell et al. 1972 .

Films can be applied to the paper. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 145 to Adams U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 675 to Milford et al. and PCT WO 02 43513 and PCT WO 02 055294. Catalytic materials can be incorporated into the paper. See for example PCT WO 02 35134.

Typical paper wrapping materials that can be used in carrying out the present invention are manufactured under specifications directed toward the production of a wrapping material having an overall generally consistent composition and physical parameters. For those types of wrapping materials the composition and parameters thereof preferably are consistent when considered over regions of each of the major surfaces of those materials. However typical wrapping materials tend to have a two sided nature and thus there can be changes in the composition and certain physical parameters of those materials from one major surface to the other.

Though less preferred the wrapping material can be manufactured using a paper making process adapted to provide a base web comprising multiple layers of cellulosic material. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 143 098 to Rogers et al.

Much less preferred paper wrapping materials can have compositions and or properties that differ over different regions of each of their major surfaces. The wrapping material can have regions of increased or decreased porosity provided by control of the composition of that material such as by controlling the amount or type of the filler. The wrapping material can have regions of increased or decreased air permeability provided by embossing or perforating that material. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 945 932 to Mentzel et al. The wrapping material can have regions e.g. pre determined regions such as bands treated with additives such as certain of the aforementioned salts. However wrapping materials having a patterned nature are not necessary when various aspects of the present invention are used to apply patterns to those wrapping materials using on line pattern application techniques.

Paper wrapping materials suitable for use in carrying out the present invention are commercially available. Representative cigarette paper wrapping materials have been available as Ref. Nos. 419 454 456 460 and 473 Ecusta Corp. Ref. Nos. Velin 413 Velin 430 VE 825 C20 VE 825 C30 VE 825 C45 VE 826 C24 VE 826 C30 and 856 DL from Miquel Tercig LK18 Tercig LK24 Tercig LK38 Tercig LK46 and Tercig LK60 from Tervakoski and Velin Beige 34 Velin Beige 46 Velin Beige 60 and Ref. Nos. 454 DL 454 LV 553 and 556 from Wattens. Exemplary flax containing cigarette paper wrapping materials have been available as Grade Names 105 114 116 119 170 178 514 523 536 520 550 557 584 595 603 609 615 and 668 from Schweitzer Mauduit International. Exemplary wood pulp containing cigarette paper wrapping materials have been available as Grade Names 404 416 422 453 454 456 465 466 and 468 from Schweitzer Mauduit International.

The composition of the additive material or coating formulation can vary. Generally the composition of the coating is determined by the ingredients of the coating formulation. Preferably the coating formulation has an overall composition and is applied in a manner and in an amount such that the physical integrity of the wrapping material is not adversely affected when the coating formulation is applied to selected regions of the wrapping material. It also is desirable that components of the coating formulation not introduce undesirable sensory characteristics to the smoke generated by a smoke article incorporating a wrapping material treated with that coating formulation. Thus suitable combinations of various components can act to reduce the effect of coatings on sensory characteristics of smoke generated by the smoking article during use.

Examples of coating formulations are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 145 to Adams and U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 675 to Milford et al. PCT WO 02 043513 PCT WO 02 055294 and European Pat. Application 1 234 514. Other coating formulations are described herein.

The coating formulation most preferably includes a film forming agent. The film forming agent most preferably is a polymeric material or resin. Exemplary film forming agents include alginates e.g. sodium alginate or ammonium alginate including those alginates available as Kelcosol from Kelco pectins e.g. including those available as TIC Pretested HM from TIC Gums derivatives of cellulose e.g. carboxymethylcellulose including the Aqualon sodium carboxymethylcellulose CMC from Hercules Incorporated and other polymeric materials such as hydroxypropylcellulose and hydroxyethylcellulose ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers guar gum e.g. including Type M Type MM Type MM high viscosity from Frutarom and Ticagel from TIC Gums xanthan gum e.g. including Keltrol from Kelco starch e.g. corn starch rice starch and dextrin modified starch e.g. oxidized tapioca starch and oxidized corn starch polyvinyl acetate and polyvinyl alcohol. Suitable combinations of various film forming agents also can be employed. Exemplary blends include water based blends of ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer emulsion and polyvinyl alcohol.

The solvent or liquid carrier for the coating formulation can vary. The solvent can be a liquid having an aqueous character and can include relatively pure water. An aqueous liquid is a suitable solvent or carrier for film forming agents such as water based emulsions starch based materials sodium carboxymethylcellulose ammonium alginate guar gum xanthan gum pectins polyvinyl alcohol and hydroxyethylcellulose. Starch based materials are film forming agents that are composed of starch or components derived from starch. It is preferred that the solvent not be a non aqueous solvent such as ethanol n propyl alcohol iso propyl alcohol ethyl acetate n propyl acetate iso propyl acetate toluene and the like. Formulations that incorporate solvents in amounts and forms such that those solvents do not adversely affect the quality of the wrapping material e.g. by causing swelling of the fibers of the wrapping material by causing puckering of the wrapping material or by causing wrinkling of the wrapping material are particularly preferred.

Generally the selection of solvent depends upon the nature of the film forming polymeric material and the particular polymeric material that is selected readily dissolves i.e. is soluble or is highly dispersible in a highly preferred solvent. Although not all components of the coating formulation are necessarily soluble in the liquid carrier it is most preferable that the film forming polymeric material be soluble or at least highly dispersible in that liquid. By soluble in referring to the components of the coating formulation with respect to the liquid solvent is meant that the components for a thermodynamically stable mixture when combined with the solvent have a significant ability to dissolve in that solvent and do not form precipitates to any significant degree when present in that solvent.

The coating formulation also can include a filler material. Exemplary filler materials can be the essentially water insoluble types of filler materials previously described. Preferred filler materials have a finely divided e.g. particulate form. Typical fillers are those that have particle sizes that are less than about 3 microns in diameter. Typical particle sizes of suitable fillers range from about 0.3 micron to 2 microns in diameter. The filler materials can have a variety of shapes. Exemplary filler materials are those that are composed of inorganic materials including metal particles and filings calcium carbonate e.g. precipitated type fillers including those having a prismatic form calcium phosphate clays e.g. attapulgite clay talc aluminum oxide mica magnesium oxide calcium sulfate magnesium carbonate magnesium hydroxide aluminum oxide and titanium dioxide. See for example the types of filler materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 878 753 to Peterson et al. Representative calcium carbonate fillers are those available as Albacar PCC Albafil PCC Albaglos PCC Opacarb PCC Jetcoat PCC and Calopake F PCC from Specialty Minerals Inc. Exemplary filler materials also can be composed of organic materials including starches modified starches and flours e.g. rice flour particles of polyvinyl alcohol particles of tobacco e.g. tobacco dust and other like materials. The filler material also can be fibrous cellulosic materials. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 417 228 to Baldwin et al. Although less preferred alternate fillers can include carbon based materials e.g. graphite type materials carbon fiber materials and ceramics metallic materials e.g. particles of iron and the like. The filler material also can be a water soluble salt e.g. potassium chloride sodium chloride potassium citrate sodium citrate calcium chloride or magnesium chloride .

The coating formulations can incorporate other ingredients in addition to the aforementioned coating materials. Those ingredients can be dispersed or suspended within the coating formulation. Those other ingredients can be employed in order to provide specific properties or characteristics to the wrapping material. Those ingredients can be preservatives e.g. potassium sorbate humectants e.g. ethylene glycol and propylene glycol pigments dyes colorants burn promoters and enhancers burn retardants and inhibitors plasticers e.g. dibutyl phthalate polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol and triacetin sizing agents syrups e.g. high fructose corn syrup flavoring agents e.g ethyl vanillin and caryophyllene oxide sugars e.g. rhamnose flavor precursors hydrate materials such as metal hydrates e.g. borax magnesium sulfate decahydrate sodium silicate pentahydrate and sodium sulfate decahydrate viscosity reducing agents e.g. urea and the like. Certain of those ingredients are soluble in the solvent of the coating formulation e.g. certain salts acids and bases are soluble in solvents such as water . Certain of those ingredients are insoluble in the solvent of the coating formulation e.g. particles of metallic materials are insoluble in most of the solvents used for coating formulations .

The coating formulation typically has a liquid syrup or paste form and is applied as such. Depending upon the actual ingredients that are combined with the solvent the coating formulation has the form of a solution an emulsion e.g. a water based emulsion or a liquid having solid materials dispersed therein. Generally the film forming agent is dissolved or dispersed in a suitable solvent to form the coating formulation. Certain other optional ingredients also are dissolved dispersed or suspended in that formulation. Additionally optional filler material also is dispersed within that formulation. Preferably the filler material is essentially insoluble and essentially chemically non reactive with the solvent at least at those conditions at which the formulation is employed.

The relative amounts of the various components of the coating formulation can vary. Typically the coating formulation includes at least about 30 percent solvent usually at least about 40 percent solvent and often at least about 50 percent solvent based on the total weight of that formulation. Typically the amount of solvent within the coating formulation does not exceed about 95 percent usually does not exceed about 90 percent and often does not exceed about 85 percent based on the total weight of that formulation. Most preferably the coating formulation includes at least about 0.5 percent film forming agent usually at least about 1 percent film forming agent and often at least about 2 percent film forming agent based on the total weight of that formulation. Typically the amount of film forming agent within the coating formulation does not exceed about 60 percent usually does not exceed about 50 percent and often does not exceed about 40 percent based on the total weight of that formulation. Typically the coating formulation includes at least about 3 percent of the optional filler material usually at least about 5 percent filler material and often at least about 10 percent filler material based on the total weight of that formulation. Typically the amount of optional filler material within the coating formulation does not exceed about 35 percent usually does not exceed about 30 percent and often does not exceed about 25 percent based on the total weight of that formulation.

The amounts of other optional components of the coating formulation can vary. The amount of plasticizer often ranges from about 0.5 percent to about 5 percent preferably about 2 to about 3 percent based on the total weight of the formulation. The amount of humectant often ranges from about 1 percent to about 5 percent preferably about 2 to about 3 percent based on the total weight of the formulation. The amount of wetting agent often ranges from about 0.5 percent to about 2 percent preferably about 0.8 to about 1 percent based on the total weight of the formulation. The amount of preservative often ranges from about 0.01 percent to about 0.3 percent preferably about 0.5 percent based on the total weight of the formulation. The amount of burn chemical often ranges from about 1 percent to about 15 percent preferably about 5 to about 10 percent based on the total weight of the formulation. The amount of viscosity reducing agent often ranges from about 1 percent to about 10 percent preferably about 2 percent to about 6 percent based on the total weight of the formulation. The amount of burn chemical often ranges from about 1 percent to about 15 percent preferably about 5 to about 10 percent based on the total weight of the formulation. The amount of metal hydrate often ranges from about 3 percent usually at least about 5 percent and often at least about 10 percent based on the total weight of that formulation but the amount of metal hydrate usually does not exceed about 35 percent often does not exceed about 30 percent and frequently does not exceed about 25 percent based on the total weight of that formulation.

Flavoring agents can be incorporated into the coating formulations. Preferably the flavoring agents exhibit sensory characteristics that can be described as having notes that are sweet woody fruity or some combination thereof. The flavoring agents preferably are employed in amounts that depend upon their individual detection thresholds. Typically the flavoring agents are employed in sufficient amounts so as to mask or ameliorate the off tastes and malodors associated with burning paper. Combinations of flavoring agents e.g. a flavor package can be employed in order to provide desired overall sensory characteristics to smoke generated from the smoking articles incorporating those flavoring agents. Most preferably those flavoring agents are employed in amounts and manners so that the sensory characteristics of those flavoring agents are hardly detectable and those flavoring agents do not adversely affect the overall sensory characteristics of smoking article into which they are incorporated. Preferred flavoring agents can be incorporated into printing formulations have low vapor pressures do not have a tendency to migrate or evaporate under normal ambient conditions and are stable under the processing conditions experienced by wrapping materials of the present invention. Exemplary flavoring agents that provide sweet notes include ethyl vanillin vanillin heliotropin methylcyclopentenolone and those flavoring agents typically are employed in amounts of 0.001 to about 0.01 percent based on the total weight of the coating formulation into which they are incorporated. An exemplary flavoring agent that provides woody notes includes caryophyllene oxide and that flavoring agent typically is employed in amounts of 0.2 to about 0.6 percent based on the total weight of the coating formulation into which it is incorporated. Exemplary flavoring agents that provide fruity notes include ketones such as 4 hydroxphenyl 2 butanone and lactones such as gamma dodecalactone and those flavoring agents typically are employed in amounts of 0.001 to about 0.1 percent based on the total weight of the coating formulation into which they are incorporated.

Certain additive materials can be applied to the wrapping material in the form of a coating formulation that is in a so called solid polymer form. That is film forming materials such as ethylene vinyl acetate copolymers and certain starches can be mixed with other components of the coating formation and applied to the wrapping material without the necessity of dissolving those film forming materials in a suitable solvent. Typically solid polymer coating formulations are applied at elevated temperatures relative to ambient temperature and the viscosities of the film forming materials of those heated coating formulations typically have an extremely wide range of viscosities.

One suitable formulation for an additive material for a paper web incorporates a water based coating that is employed in liquid form and that coating is an adhesive formulation of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company used as a cigarette seam adhesive and designated as CS 1242. The CS 1242 formulation is a water emulsion based adhesive consisting of about 87 to about 88 weight percent ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer emulsion sold under the designation Resyn 32 0272 by National Starch Chemical Company and about 12 to about 13 weight percent adhesive concentrate stabilizer of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company known as AC 9. The AC 9 adhesive concentrate stabilizer consists of about 92 weight percent water and about 8 weight percent polyvinyl alcohol resin available as Celvol 205 from Celanese Chemicals. Such a formulation exhibits a viscosity of about 400 centipoise. If desired the formulation can contain dyes or pigments for aesthetic purposes or to facilitate automated inspection of paper wrapping materials to which the formulation is applied. Such a formulation is particularly suitable for use with an application system of the type described previously with reference to .

Another suitable formulation for an additive material for a paper web is a starch based aqueous formulation. A representative formulation includes about 10 weight percent sodium chloride about 0.5 weight percent potassium sorbate about 35 weight percent oxidized tapioca starch available as Flo Max 8 from National Starch Chemical Company about 20 weight percent calcium carbonate and about 34.5 weight percent water. Such a formulation exhibits a viscosity of about 1 000 centipoise. If desired the formulation can contain dyes or pigments for aesthetic purposes or to facilitate automated inspection of paper wrapping materials to which the formulation is applied. Such a formulation is particularly suitable for use with an application system of the type described previously with reference to .

Another suitable formulation for an additive material for a paper web is a starch based aqueous formulation. A representative formulation includes about 5 weight percent sodium chloride about 0.5 weight percent potassium sorbate about 49.8 weight percent oxidized tapioca starch available as Flo Max 8 from National Starch Chemical Company and about 44.7 weight percent water. Preferably the mixture is heated at an elevated temperature e.g. about 170 F. for a period of time e.g. about 10 minutes sufficient to result in the formation of a desirable paste. Such a formulation exhibits a viscosity in the range of about 200 000 centipoise to about 2 000 000 centipoise. The viscosity of such a formulation increases over time after initial manufacture. If desired the formulation can contain dyes or pigments for aesthetic purposes or to facilitate automated inspection of paper wrapping materials to which the formulation is applied. Such a formulation is particularly suitable for use with an application system of the type described previously with reference to .

Another suitable formulation for an additive material for a paper web is a starch based aqueous formulation. A representative formulation includes about 10 weight percent sodium chloride about 0.5 weight percent potassium sorbate about 40 weight percent oxidized tapioca starch available as Flo Max 8 from National Starch Chemical Company and about 49.5 weight percent water. Preferably the mixture is heated at an elevated temperature e.g. about 170 F. for a period of time e.g. about 10 minutes sufficient to result in the formation of a desirable paste. After manufacture and storage such a formulation exhibits a viscosity in the range of about 200 000 centipoise to about 2 000 000 centipoise. The viscosity of such a formulation gradually increases over time after initial manufacture. If desired the formulation can contain dyes or pigments for aesthetic purposes or to facilitate automated inspection of paper wrapping materials to which the formulation is applied. Such a formulation is particularly suitable for use with an application system of the type described previously with reference to .

The amount of coating formulation that is applied to the paper wrapping material can vary. Typically coating of the wrapping material provides a coated wrapping material having an overall dry basis weight i.e. the basis weight of the whole wrapping material including coated and uncoated regions of at least about 1.05 times often at least about 1.1 times and frequently at least about 1.2 times that of the dry basis weight of that wrapping material prior to the application of coating thereto. Typically coating of the wrapping material provides a coated paper having an overall dry basis weight of not more about 1.4 times and often not more than about 1.3 times that of the dry basis weight of the wrapping material that has the coating applied thereto. Typical overall dry basis weights of those wrapping materials are about 20 g mto about 40 g m preferably about 25 g mto about 35 g m. For example a paper wrapping material having a dry basis weight of about 25 g mcan be coated in accordance with the present invention to have a resulting overall dry basis weight of about 26.5 g mto about 35 g m and often about 28 g mto about 32 g m.

The dry weights of the coated regions of wrapping material of the present invention can vary. For wrapping materials that are used for the manufacture of cigarettes designed to meet certain cigarette extinction test criteria it is desirable that the wrapping materials have sufficient coating formulation applied thereto to in the form of appropriately shaped and spaced bands in order that the dry weight of additive material applied to those wrapping materials totals at least about 1 pound ream often at least about 2 pounds ream and frequently at least about 3 pounds ream while the total dry weight of that applied additive material normally does not exceed about 10 pounds ream.

Typical coated regions of paper wrapping materials of the present invention that are suitable for use as the circumscribing wrappers of tobacco rods for cigarettes have inherent porosities that can vary. Typically the inherent porosities of the coated regions of the wrapping materials are less than about 8.5 CORESTA units usually are less than about 8 CORESTA units often are less than about 7 CORESTA units and frequently are less than about 6 CORESTA units. Typically the inherent porosities of the coated regions of the wrapping materials are at least about 0.1 CORESTA unit usually are at least about 0.5 CORESTA unit often are at least about 1 CORESTA unit. Preferably the inherent porosities of the coated regions of the wrapping materials particularly those wrapping materials that are used for the manufacture of cigarettes designed to meet certain cigarette extinction test criteria are between about 0.1 CORESTA unit and about 4 CORESTA units.

The paper wrapping material of the present invention can have can be coated in patterns having predetermined shapes. The coating can have the form of bands cross directional lines or bands including those that are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the wrapping material stripes grids longitudinally extending lines circles hollow circles dots ovals checks spirals swirls helical bands diagonally crossing lines or bands triangles hexagonals honeycombs ladder type shapes zig zag shaped stripes or bands sinusoidal shaped stripes or bands square wave shaped stripes or bands patterns composed of coated regions that are generally C or U shaped patterns composed of coated regions that are generally E shaped patterns composed of coated regions that are generally S shaped patterns composed of coated regions that are generally T shaped patterns composed of coated regions that are generally V shaped patterns composed of coated regions that are generally W shaped patterns composed of coated regions that are generally X shaped patterns composed of coated regions that are generally Z shaped or other desired shapes. Combinations of the foregoing shapes also can used to provide the desired pattern.

The relative sizes or dimensions of the various shapes and designs can be selected as desired. For example shapes of coated regions compositions of the coating formulations or amounts or concentrations of coating materials can change over the length of the wrapping material. The relative positioning of the printed regions can be selected as desired. For example wrapping materials that are used for the production of cigarettes designed to meet certain cigarette extinction test criteria the pattern most preferably has the form of spaced continuous bands that are aligned transversely or cross directionally to the longitudinal axis of the wrapping material. However cigarettes can be manufactured from wrapping materials possessing discontinuous bands positioned in a spaced apart relationship. For wrapping materials of those cigarettes it is most preferred that discontinuous bands e.g. bands that are composed of a pattern such as a series of dots grids or stripes cover at least about 70 percent of the surface of the band area or region of the wrapping material.

Preferred wrapping materials possess coatings in the form of bands that extend across the wrapping material generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the wrapping material. The widths of the individual bands can vary as well as the spacings between those bands. Typically those bands have widths of at least about 0.5 mm usually at least about 1 mm frequently at least about 2 mm and most preferably at least about 3 mm. Typically those bands have widths of up to about 8 mm usually up to about 7 mm. Preferred bands have widths of about 4 mm to about 7 mm. Such bands can be spaced apart such that the spacing between the bands is at least about 10 mm often at least about 15 mm frequently at least about 20 mm often at least about 25 mm in certain instances at least about 30 mm and on occasion at least about 35 mm but such spacing usually does not exceed about 50 mm.

There are several factors that determine a specific coating pattern for a wrapping material of the present invention. It is desirable that the components of the coating formulations applied to wrapping materials not adversely affect to any significant degree i the appearance of cigarettes manufactured from those wrapping materials ii the nature or quality of the smoke generated by those cigarettes iii the desirable burn characteristics of those cigarettes or iv the desirable performance characteristics of those cigarettes. It also is desirable that wrapping materials having coating formulations applied thereto not introduce undesirable off taste or otherwise adversely affect the sensory characteristics of the smoke generated by cigarettes manufactured using those wrapping materials. In addition preferred cigarettes of the present invention do not have a tendency to undergo premature extinction such as when lit cigarettes are held in the smoker s hand or when placed in an ashtray for a brief period of time.

Cigarettes designed to meet certain cigarette extinction test criteria can be produced from wrapping materials of the present invention. Banded regions on a wrapping material are produced using additive materials that are effective in reducing the inherent porosity of the wrapping material in those regions. Film forming materials and fillers applied to the wrapping material in those banded regions are effective in increasing the weight of the wrapping material in those regions. Filler materials that are applied to the wrapping material in those banded regions are effective in decreasing the burn rate of the wrapping materials in those regions. Typically when wrapping materials of relatively high inherent porosity are used to manufacture cigarettes those wrapping materials possess relatively high weight bands that introduce a relatively low inherent porosity to the banded regions. Film forming materials have a tendency to reduce the porosity of the wrapping material whether or not those materials are used in conjunction with fillers. However coatings that combine porosity reduction with added coating weight to wrapping materials also are effective in facilitating extinction of cigarettes manufactured from those wrapping materials. Low porosity in selected regions of a wrapping material tends to cause a lit cigarette to extinguish due to the decrease in access to oxygen for combustion for the smokable material within that wrapping material. Increased weight of the wrapping material also tends to cause lit cigarette incorporating that wrapping material to extinguish. As the inherent porosity of the wrapping material increases it also is desirable to i select a film forming material so as to cause a decrease the inherent porosity of the coated region of the wrapping material and or ii provide a coating that provides a relatively large amount of added weight to the coated region of the wrapping material.

Paper wrapping materials of the present invention are useful as components of smoking articles such as cigarettes. Preferably one layer of the wrapping material of the present invention is used as the wrapping material circumscribing the smokable material and thereby forming the tobacco rod of a cigarette. In one regard it is preferable that the wrapping material possesses the coated regions located on the wire side thereof and the wire side of that wrapping material forms the inner surface of the circumscribing wrapping material of the tobacco rod. Typically the felt side of the wrapping material is used as the visible outer surface of the tobacco rod. The terms wire side and felt side in referring to the major surfaces of paper sheet are readily understood as terms of art to those skilled in the art of paper and cigarette manufacture.

Cigarettes of the present invention possessing tobacco rods manufactured using certain appropriately treated wrapping materials of the present invention when tested using the methodology set forth in the Cigarette Extinction Test Method by the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST Publication 851 1993 using 10 layers of Whatman No. 2 filter paper meet criteria requiring extinction of greater than about 50 percent preferably greater than about 75 percent and most preferably about 100 percent of cigarettes tested. Preferably each cigarette possesses at least one band located in a region of its tobacco rod such that the band is capable of providing that cigarette with the ability to meet those cigarette extinction criteria. For a tobacco rod of a particular length incorporating a wrapping material possessing bands that are aligned transversely to the longitudinal axis of the wrapping material in a spaced apart relationship the ratio of the length of the tobacco rod to the sum of the width of a band and the distance between the bands is 1 to 2 preferably about 1.1 to about 1.4 and most preferably about 1.2.

For an exemplary full flavor cigarette having a tobacco rod length of about 63 mm and a filter element length of about 21 mm cross directional bands of about 6 mm width can be spaced at about 20 mm intervals on the wrapping materials used to manufacture those cigarettes. Alternatively for those types of cigarettes bands of about 4 mm width can be spaced at about 22 mm intervals on the wrapping materials used to manufacture those cigarettes. Alternatively for those types of cigarettes bands of about 6 mm width can be spaced at about 39 mm intervals. For an exemplary full flavor cigarette having a tobacco rod length of about 70 mm and a filter element length of about 30 mm cross directional bands of about 6 mm width can be spaced at about 44 mm intervals on the wrapping materials used to manufacture those cigarettes. For an exemplary ultra low tar cigarette having a tobacco rod length of about 57 mm and a filter element length of about 27 mm cross directional bands of about 7 mm width can be spaced at about 20 mm intervals. Alternatively for those types of cigarettes bands of about 6 mm width can be spaced at about 33 mm intervals or at about 39 mm intervals on the wrapping materials used to manufacture those cigarettes. For an exemplary ultra low tar cigarette having a tobacco rod length of about 68 mm and a filter element length of about 31 mm cross directional bands of about 6 mm width can be spaced at about 44 mm intervals on the wrapping materials used to manufacture those cigarettes. Full flavor cigarettes are classified as those that yield about 14 mg or more of FTC tar. Ultra low tar cigarettes are classified as those that yield less than about 7 mg of FTC tar. Those cigarettes have tobacco rods having appropriate wrapping materials possessing bands composed of appropriate amounts of appropriate components have the ability to meet the aforementioned cigarette extinction criteria.

Cigarettes of the present invention can be manufactured from a variety of components and can have a wide range of formats and configurations. Typical cigarettes of the present invention having cross directional bands applied to the wrapping materials of the tobacco rods of those cigarettes have static burn rates i.e. burn rates of those cigarettes under non puffing conditions of about 50 to about 60 mg tobacco rod weight per minute in the non banded regions of those cigarettes. Typical cigarettes of the present invention having cross directional bands applied to the wrapping materials of the tobacco rods of those cigarettes have static burn rates i.e. burn rates of those cigarettes under non puffing conditions of less than about 50 mg tobacco rod weight per minute preferably about 40 to about 45 mg tobacco rod weight per minute in the banded regions of those cigarettes.

The tobacco materials used for the manufacture of cigarettes of the present invention can vary. Descriptions of various types of tobaccos growing practices harvesting practices and curing practices are set for in Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . The tobacco normally is used in cut filler form e.g. shreds or strands of tobacco filler cut into widths of about 1 10 inch to about 1 60 inch preferably about 1 20 inch to about 1 35 inch and in lengths of about inch to about 3 inches . The amount of tobacco filler normally used within a cigarette ranges from about 0.6 g to about 1 g. The tobacco filler normally is employed so as to filler the tobacco rod at a packing density of about 100 mg cmto about 300 mg cm and often about 150 mg cmto about 275 mg cm. Tobaccos can have a processed form such as processed tobacco stems e.g. cut rolled or cut puffed stems volume expanded tobacco e.g. puffed tobacco such as propane expanded tobacco and dry ice expanded tobacco DIET or reconstituted tobacco e.g. reconstituted tobaccos manufactured using paper making type or cast sheet type processes .

Typically tobacco materials for cigarette manufacture are used in a so called blended form. For example certain popular tobacco blends commonly referred to as American blends comprise mixtures of flue cured tobacco burley tobacco and Oriental tobacco and in many cases certain processed tobaccos such as reconstituted tobacco and processed tobacco stems. The precise amount of each type of tobacco within a tobacco blend used for the manufacture of a particular cigarette brand varies from brand to brand. See for example Voges Ed. p. 44 45 1984 Browne 3Ed. p. 43 1990 and Davis et al. Eds. p. 346 1999 . Other representative tobacco blends also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 924 888 to Perfetti et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 537 to Brown et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and Bombick et al. 39 p. 11 17 1997 . See also PCT WO 02 37990.

If desired in addition to the aforementioned tobacco materials the tobacco blend of the present invention can further include other components. Other components include casing materials e.g. sugars glycerin cocoa and licorice and top dressing materials e.g. flavoring materials such as menthol . The selection of particular casing and top dressing components is dependent upon factors such as the sensory characteristics that are desired and the selection of those components will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. See Gutcho Noyes Data Corp. 1972 and Leffingwell et al. 1972 .

Smoking articles also can incorporate at least one flavor component within the side seam adhesive applied to the wrapping material during the manufacture of the tobacco rods. That is for example various flavoring agents can be incorporated in a side seam adhesive CS 2201A available from National Starch and applied to the seam line of the wrapping material. Those flavoring agents are employed in order to mask or ameliorate any off taste or malodor provided to the smoke generated by smoking articles as a result of the use of the wrapping materials of the present invention such as those wrapping materials having coating formulations incorporating certain cellulosic based or starch based components applied thereto. Exemplary flavors include methyl cyclopentenolone vanillin ethyl vanillin 4 parahydroxyphenyl 2 butanone gamma undecalactone 2 methoxy 4 vinylphenol 2 methoxy 4 methylphenol 5 ethyl 3 hydroxy 4 methyl 2 5H furanone methyl salicylate clary sage oil and sandalwood oil. Typically such types of flavor components are employed in amounts of about 0.2 percent to about 6.0 percent based on the total weight of the adhesive and flavor components.

Exemplary cigarettes and exemplary components parameters and specifications thereof are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry PCT WO 02 37990 and US Pat. Application 2002 0166563 which are incorporated herein by reference.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments it should be recognized that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles of the present invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art of smoking article design and manufacture will appreciate that the various systems equipment and methods may be constructed and implemented in other ways and embodiments. Accordingly the description herein should not be read as limiting the present invention as other embodiments also fall within the scope of the present invention.

