---

title: Nitride-based transistors with a protective layer and a low-damage recess
abstract: Transistors are fabricated by forming a nitride-based semiconductor barrier layer on a nitride-based semiconductor channel layer and forming a protective layer on a gate region of the nitride-based semiconductor barrier layer. Patterned ohmic contact metal regions are formed on the barrier layer and annealed to provide first and second ohmic contacts. The annealing is carried out with the protective layer on the gate region. A gate contact is also formed on the gate region of the barrier layer. Transistors having protective layer in the gate region are also provided as are transistors having a barrier layer with a sheet resistance substantially the same as an as-grown sheet resistance of the barrier layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07906799&OS=07906799&RS=07906799
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07906799
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060221
---
The present application is a divisional of and claims priority from U.S. application Ser. No. 10 758 871 filed Jan. 16 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 045 404 entitled NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS WITH A PROTECTIVE LAYER AND A LOW DAMAGE RECESS AND METHODS OF FABRICATION THEREOF which is assigned to the assignee of the present application the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully.

This invention was made with Government support. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to semiconductor devices and more particularly to transistors that incorporate nitride based active layers.

Materials such as silicon Si and gallium arsenide GaAs have found wide application in semiconductor devices for lower power and in the case of Si lower frequency applications. These more familiar semiconductor materials may not be well suited for higher power and or high frequency applications however because of their relatively small bandgaps e.g. 1.12 eV for Si and 1.42 for GaAs at room temperature and or relatively small breakdown voltages.

In light of the difficulties presented by Si and GaAs interest in high power high temperature and or high frequency applications and devices has turned to wide bandgap semiconductor materials such as silicon carbide 2.996 eV for alpha SiC at room temperature and the Group III nitrides e.g. 3.36 eV for GaN at room temperature . These materials typically have higher electric field breakdown strengths and higher electron saturation velocities as compared to gallium arsenide and silicon.

A device of particular interest for high power and or high frequency applications is the High Electron Mobility Transistor HEMT which is also known as a modulation doped field effect transistor MODFET . These devices may offer operational advantages under a number of circumstances because a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG is formed at the heterojunction of two semiconductor materials with different bandgap energies and where the smaller bandgap material has a higher electron affinity. The 2DEG is an accumulation layer in the undoped unintentionally doped smaller bandgap material and can contain a very high sheet electron concentration in excess of for example 10carriers cm. Additionally electrons that originate in the wider bandgap semiconductor transfer to the 2DEG allowing a high electron mobility due to reduced ionized impurity scattering.

This combination of high carrier concentration and high carrier mobility can give the HEMT a very large transconductance and may provide a strong performance advantage over metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs for high frequency applications.

High electron mobility transistors fabricated in the gallium nitride aluminum gallium nitride GaN AlGaN material system have the potential to generate large amounts of RF power because of the combination of material characteristics that includes the aforementioned high breakdown fields their wide bandgaps large conduction band offset and or high saturated electron drift velocity. A major portion of the electrons in the 2DEG is attributed to polarization in the AlGaN. HEMTs in the GaN AlGaN system have already been demonstrated. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 192 987 and 5 296 395 describe AlGaN GaN HEMT structures and methods of manufacture. U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 to Sheppard et al. which is commonly assigned and is incorporated herein by reference describes a HEMT device having a semi insulating silicon carbide substrate an aluminum nitride buffer layer on the substrate an insulating gallium nitride layer on the buffer layer an aluminum gallium nitride barrier layer on the gallium nitride layer and a passivation layer on the aluminum gallium nitride active structure.

One step in the fabrication of nitride based transistors is the formation of ohmic contacts for such transistors. The formation of ohmic contacts has typically required high annealing temperatures e.g. 900 C. . Such high annealing temperatures may damage the materials and or the device.

For example in conventional devices utilizing high annealing temperatures when forming ohmic contacts the sheet resistance of a gate region defined as the active device region between the two contacts of AlGaN and or GaN layers typically increases in comparison to sheet resistances of the AlGaN and or GaN layers as grown. Such an increase in sheet resistance is believed to detrimentally affect the device.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for fabricating a transistor by forming a nitride based semiconductor barrier layer on a nitride based semiconductor channel layer and forming a protective layer on a gate region of the nitride based semiconductor barrier layer. Patterned ohmic contact metal regions are formed on the barrier layer and annealed to provide first and second ohmic contacts. The annealing is carried out with the protective layer on the gate region. A gate contact is also formed on the gate region e.g. the active device region between the first and second ohmic contacts of the barrier layer.

In further embodiments of the present invention the protective layer is removed subsequent to annealing the patterned ohmic contact metal. The protective layer may be an aluminum nitride layer. The protective layer may be removed utilizing a low damage etching technique. For example the low damage etching technique may include wet removal with a strong base such as KOH. After removing the protective layer a passivation layer may be formed on exposed portions of the barrier layer. In these embodiments the gate contact may be formed by etching a recess in the passivation layer utilizing a low damage etch technique to expose a portion of the gate region of the barrier layer and forming the gate contact in the recess in the passivation layer.

In additional embodiments of the present invention the passivation layer is formed on exposed portions of the barrier layer and the protective layer. In these embodiments the gate contact may be provided by forming a gate contact that extends through the passivation layer and the protective layer to contact the barrier layer.

In yet other embodiments of the present invention forming a protective layer includes forming a patterned protective layer on the barrier layer. The patterned protective layer covers a first portion of the barrier layer corresponding to the gate region and exposes adjacent second portions of the barrier layer corresponding to the first and second ohmic contacts. The patterned ohmic contact metal regions are provided by forming patterned ohmic contact metal regions on the second portions of the barrier layer. The patterned ohmic contact metal regions are adjacent and spaced apart from the patterned protective layer.

In still further embodiments of the present invention forming the patterned protective layer includes blanket depositing a protective layer material on the barrier layer forming a mask typically photoresist on the blanket deposited protective layer material the mask having windows corresponding to locations of the first and second ohmic contacts etching the blanket deposited protective layer through the windows utilizing a low damage etching technique and removing the mask. The windows corresponding to locations of the first and second ohmic contacts may be larger than an area of the first and second ohmic contacts. The low damage etching technique may be one or more of RIE ECR downstream plasma and or ICP using CF O NF Oand or other fluorinated species.

Forming the gate contact may include etching a recess in the patterned protective layer that exposes a portion of the first portion of the barrier layer and depositing a gate contact in the recess. Forming a recess may include forming a mask on the patterned protective layer the mask having a window corresponding to location of the recess etching the patterned protective layer through the window utilizing a low damage etching technique and removing the mask. The low damage etching technique utilized to etch the patterned protective layer may include RIE ECR downstream plasma and or ICP using CF O NF Oand or other fluorinated species.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the protective layer includes SiN AlN and or SiO. The SiN AlN and or SiOmay be non stoichiometric and can have compressive or tensile strain. The protective layer may be deposited using physical vapor deposition PVD and or chemical vapor deposition CVD .

In yet additional embodiments of the present invention a passivation layer is formed on the patterned protective layer so as to substantially fill gaps between the patterned protective layer and the first and second ohmic contacts. The patterned protective layer and the passivation layer may be the same or different materials. For example the patterned protective layer may be aluminum nitride and the passivation layer may be silicon nitride. Alternatively the patterned protective layer and the passivation layer may be silicon nitride.

In still other embodiments of the present invention the patterned protective layer is removed so as to expose the first portion of the barrier layer. Removing the patterned protective layer may be followed by forming a passivation layer on exposed portions of the barrier layer. In such embodiments the patterned protective layer may be aluminum nitride and the passivation layer may be silicon nitride.

In further embodiments of the present invention formation of the gate contact is preceded by forming the passivation layer. The gate contact is provided by forming a recess in the passivation layer that exposes a portion of the first portion of the barrier layer and forming a gate contact in the recess. Forming the recess may include forming a mask on the passivation layer. The mask has a window corresponding to location of the recess. The passivation layer is etched through the window utilizing a low damage etching technique and the mask is then removed.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the nitride based channel layer and the nitride based semiconductor barrier layer are Group III nitride layers. For example the channel layer may have a composition of AlGaN wherein 0 x

In still further embodiments of the present invention the formation of the gate contact is preceded by the formation of a passivation layer. The formation of the gate contact the includes forming a recess in the passivation layer and the patterned protective layer that exposes a portion of the first portion of the barrier layer and forming a gate contact in the recess.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the protective layer is formed to a thickness of at least about a thickness of the ohmic contact material. The protective layer may also have a thickness of at least about two monolayers. In particular the protective layer may have a thickness of from about 1 nm to about 500 nm.

In yet other embodiments of the present invention a high electron mobility transistor includes a nitride based channel layer on a substrate and a nitride based semiconductor barrier layer on the nitride based channel layer. The channel of electrons at the interface between the channel and barrier layers has a sheet resistance that is substantially the same as an as grown sheet resistance of the nitride based HEMT channel. Ohmic contacts and a gate contact are provided on the barrier layer.

The high electron mobility transistor may further include a protective layer disposed on the barrier layer that is adjacent and spaced apart from the ohmic contacts and that the gate contact extends through. A passivation layer may also be provided on the protective layer and that substantially fills a gap between the ohmic contacts and the protective layer. The passivation layer may also be on the protective layer and the gate contact may extend through the protective layer and the passivation layer. The gate contact may be also be provided directly on the protective layer. The passivation layer on the barrier layer may substantially fill a gap between the ohmic contacts and the gate contact.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the nitride based channel layer and the nitride based semiconductor barrier layer each include a Group III nitride layer. The channel layer may have a lower bandgap than the barrier layer. The channel layer may include an undoped layer having a thickness of greater than about 20 . The channel layer may also include a superlattice and or a combination of Group III nitride layers. The channel layer may include aluminum gallium nitride AlGaN gallium nitride GaN indium gallium nitride InGaN and or aluminum indium gallium nitride AlInGaN . The barrier layer may include aluminum nitride AlN aluminum indium nitride AlInN AlGaN GaN InGaN and or AlInGaN. For example the barrier layer may include AlGaN wherein 0

In still further embodiments of the present invention the protective layer has a thickness of at least about a thickness of the ohmic contacts. The ohmic contacts may also have a contact resistance of less than about 1 mm.

In yet other embodiments of the present invention a high electron mobility transistor includes a nitride based channel layer on a substrate a nitride based semiconductor barrier layer on the nitride based channel layer a protective layer on the barrier layer ohmic contacts on the barrier layer adjacent and spaced apart from the protective layer so as to provide a gap between the ohmic contacts and the protective layer and a gate contact on the barrier layer and extending through the protective layer. A passivation layer may also be provided on the protective layer and that substantially fills the gap between the ohmic contacts and the protective layer.

In still further embodiments of the present invention fabrication of a transistor includes forming a nitride based semiconductor barrier layer on a nitride based semiconductor channel layer and forming a protective layer on a gate region of the nitride based semiconductor barrier layer. Patterned ohmic contact metal regions are formed on the barrier layer. The patterned ohmic contact metal is annealed to provide first and second ohmic contacts for example source and drain contacts. A recess is etched in the protective layer in a gate region of the barrier layer utilizing a low damage etch technique to expose a portion of the gate region of the barrier layer. The gate contact is formed in the recess in the passivation layer.

In particular embodiments of the present invention the protective layer comprises a passivation layer. The protective layer may for example be an aluminum nitride layer a silicon nitride layer and or a silicon dioxide layer or layers. The low damage etching technique may be a wet etch using a strong base. In certain embodiments of the present invention annealing the patterned ohmic contact metal to provide first and second ohmic contacts is carried out prior to forming a protective layer. In other embodiments of the present invention annealing the patterned ohmic contact metal to provide first and second ohmic contacts is carried out subsequent to forming a protective layer.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Furthermore the various layers and regions illustrated in the figures are illustrated schematically. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the relative size spacing and alignment illustrated in the accompanying figures. As will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art references herein to a layer formed on a substrate or other layer may refer to the layer formed directly on the substrate or other layer or on an intervening layer or layers formed on the substrate or other layer. It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Embodiments of the present invention utilize a protective layer and or a low damage recess fabrication technique to reduce gate leakage and or provide a high quality Schottky contact in a semiconductor device such as a transistor. The use of a protective layer may reduce damage to the semiconductor in the gate region of the transistor that may occur during an anneal of ohmic contacts of the device. Thus high quality gate and ohmic contacts may be provided with reduced degradation of the gate region that may result from formation of the ohmic contacts.

Embodiments of the present invention may be particularly well suited for use in nitride based HEMTs such as Group III nitride based devices. As used herein the term Group III nitride refers to those semiconducting compounds formed between nitrogen and the elements in Group III of the periodic table usually aluminum Al gallium Ga and or indium In . The term also refers to ternary and quaternary compounds such as AlGaN and AlInGaN. As is well understood by those in this art the Group III elements can combine with nitrogen to form binary e.g. GaN ternary e.g. AlGaN AlInN and quaternary e.g. AlInGaN compounds. These compounds all have empirical formulas in which one mole of nitrogen is combined with a total of one mole of the Group III elements. Accordingly formulas such as AlGaN where 0 x 1 are often used to describe them.

Suitable structures for GaN based HEMTs that may utilize embodiments of the present invention are described for example in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0066908A1 filed Jul. 12 2001 and published Jun. 6 2002 for ALUMINUM GALLIUM NITRIDE GALLIUM NITRIDE HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTORS HAVING A GATE CONTACT ON A GALLIUM NITRIDE BASED CAP SEGMENT AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 290 195 filed May 11 2001 for GROUP III NITRIDE BASED HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTOR HEMT WITH BARRIER SPACER LAYER United States Patent Publication No. 2002 0167023A1 to Smorchkova et al. published Nov. 14 2002 entitled GROUP III NITRIDE BASED HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTOR HEMT WITH BARRIER SPACER LAYER and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 617 843 filed Jul. 11 2003 for NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATION THEREOF USING NON ETCHED CONTACT RECESSES the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Fabrication of embodiments of the present invention is schematically illustrated in . As seen in a substrate is provided on which nitride based devices may be formed. In particular embodiments of the present invention the substrate may be a semi insulating silicon carbide SiC substrate that may be for example 4H polytype of silicon carbide. Other silicon carbide candidate polytypes include the 3C 6H and 15R polytypes. The term semi insulating is used descriptively rather than in an absolute sense. In particular embodiments of the present invention the silicon carbide bulk crystal has a resistivity equal to or higher than about 1 10 cm at room temperature.

Optional buffer nucleation and or transition layers not shown may be provided on the substrate as illustrated for example in . For example an AlN buffer layer may be provided to provide an appropriate crystal structure transition between the silicon carbide substrate and the remainder of the device. Additionally strain balancing transition layer s may also be provided as described for example in commonly assigned United States Patent Publication 2003 0102482A1 filed Jul. 19 2002 and published Jun. 5 2003 and entitled STRAIN BALANCED NITRIDE HETROJUNCTION TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATING STRAIN BALANCED NITRIDE HETEROJUNCTION TRANSISTORS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 337 687 filed Dec. 3 2001 and entitled STRAIN BALANCED NITRIDE HETEROJUNCTION TRANSISTOR the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

Silicon carbide has a much closer crystal lattice match to Group III nitrides than does sapphire AlO which is a very common substrate material for Group III nitride devices. The closer lattice match may result in Group III nitride films of higher quality than those generally available on sapphire. Silicon carbide also has a very high thermal conductivity so that the total output power of Group III nitride devices on silicon carbide is typically not as limited by thermal dissipation of the substrate as in the case of the same devices formed on sapphire. Also the availability of semi insulating silicon carbide substrates may provide for device isolation and reduced parasitic capacitance. Appropriate SiC substrates are manufactured by for example Cree Inc. of Durham N.C. the assignee of the present invention and methods for producing are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. Re. 34 861 4 946 547 5 200 022 and 6 218 680 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Similarly techniques for epitaxial growth of Group III nitrides have been described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 210 051 5 393 993 5 523 589 and 5 292 501 the contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Although silicon carbide may be used as a substrate material embodiments of the present invention may utilize any suitable substrate such as sapphire aluminum nitride aluminum gallium nitride gallium nitride silicon GaAs LGO ZnO LAO InP and the like. In some embodiments an appropriate buffer layer also may be formed.

Returning to a channel layer is provided on the substrate . The channel layer may be deposited on the substrate using buffer layers transition layers and or nucleation layers as described above. The channel layer may be under compressive strain. Furthermore the channel layer and or buffer nucleation and or transition layers may be deposited by MOCVD or by other techniques known to those of skill in the art such as MBE or HVPE.

In some embodiments of the present invention the channel layer is a Group III nitride such as AlGaN where 0 x

A barrier layer is provided on the channel layer . The channel layer may have a bandgap that is less than the bandgap of the barrier layer and the channel layer may also have a larger electron affinity than the barrier layer . The barrier layer may be deposited on the channel layer . In certain embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is AlN AlInN AlGaN or AlInGaN with a thickness of between about 0.1 nm and about 10 nm. Examples of layers according to certain embodiments of the present invention are described in United States Patent Publication No. 2002 0167023A1 to Smorchkova et al. entitled GROUP III NITRIDE BASED HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTOR HEMT WITH BARRIER SPACER LAYER the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. In particular embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is thick enough and has a high enough Al composition and doping to induce a significant carrier concentration at the interface between the channel layer and the barrier layer through polarization effects when the barrier layer is buried under ohmic contact metal. Also the barrier layer should be thick enough to reduce or minimize scattering of electrons in the channel due to ionized impurities deposited at the interface between the barrier layer and a second cap layer .

The barrier layer may be a Group III nitride and has a bandgap larger than that of the channel layer and a smaller electron affinity than the channel layer . Accordingly in certain embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is AlGaN AlInGaN and or AlN or combinations of layers thereof. The barrier layer may for example be from about 0.1 nm to about 10 nm thick but is not so thick as to cause cracking or substantial defect formation therein. In certain embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is undoped or doped with an n type dopant to a concentration less than about 10cm. In some embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is AlGaN where 0

In particular embodiments of the present invention the protective layer is SiN. The SiN may be formed by PVD and or CVD and may be non stoichiometric in compressive or tensile strain. For example the protective layer may have a stress of between about 100 MPa and about 100 MPa. In certain embodiments of the present invention the SiN protective layer has an index of refraction at a 633 nm wavelength of from about 1.6 to about 2.2. In particular embodiments the index of refraction of the SiN protective layer is 1.98 0.05.

In certain embodiments the protective layer may be AlN. The AlN may be formed by PVD and or CVD and may be non stoichiometric in compressive or tensile strain. For example the protective layer may have a stress of between about 100 MPa and about 100 MPa. In certain embodiments of the present invention the AlN protective layer has an index of refraction at a 633 nm wavelength from about 1.8 to about 2.1. In particular embodiments the index of refraction of the AlN protective layer is 1.85 0.05.

The protective layer may also be SiO. The SiOmay be formed by PVD and or CVD and may be non stoichiometric in compressive or tensile strain. For example the protective layer may have a stress of between about 100 MPa and about 100 MPa. In certain embodiments of the present invention the SiOprotective layer has an index of refraction at a 633 nm wavelength of from about 1.36 to about 1.56. In particular embodiments the index of refraction of the SiOprotective layer is 1.46 0.03.

The protective layer is blanket formed on the barrier layer and may be formed by deposition. For example a silicon nitride layer may be formed by high quality sputtering and or PECVD. Typically the protective layer may have a thickness of about 30 nm however other thickness layers may also be utilized. For example the protective layer should be sufficiently thick so as to protect the underlying layer during a subsequent anneal of ohmic contacts. Layers as thin as two or three monolayers may be sufficient for such purposes. However in general the protective layer may have a thickness of from about 10 nm to about 500 nm. Also a high quality SiN protective layer may be grown in situ with the MOCVD growth of the group III nitride layers.

As illustrated in windows are opened in the protective layer for formation of ohmic contacts . The windows may be formed utilizing a patterned mask and a low damage etch with respect to the barrier layer to expose the underlying barrier layer . Examples of low damage etch techniques include etching techniques other than reactive ion etching such as inductively coupled plasma or electron cyclotron resonance ECR or downstream plasma etching with no DC component to the plasma. For SiO a low damage etch could be a wet etch with buffered hydrofluoric acid. A selective etch of SiN and or SiOto an etch stop layer such as ITO SCO MgO or the like followed by a low damage removal of the etch stop layer could also be performed. For SiN SiOmay be used as an etch stop layer. In such embodiments the protective layer may include the SiN AlN and or SiOlayer as well as the etch stop layer. Thus in certain embodiments of the present invention the protective layer may include multiple layers.

As is further illustrated in with a subsequent photolithography step and evaporation ohmic metal is patterned to provide the ohmic contacts . The ohmic contacts are patterned so as to be smaller than the window in the protective layer such that the edges of the ohmic contacts are spaced apart from the protective layer . For example the edges of the ohmic contacts may be spaced apart from the protective layer by a distance of from about 0.1 to about 0.2 m. The ohmic contacts should be spaced apart from the protective layer a distance sufficiently large to allow for misalignment tolerances in the formation and patterning of the ohmic contact metal. If the ohmic contact metal contacts the protective layer the metal may diffuse into the protective layer during subsequent heating steps which may result in a short between a gate contact and the ohmic contact s . However the gap between the ohmic contacts and the protective layer should not be so large as to defeat the protective purpose of the protective layer and thereby substantially degrade the performance of the device but should not be so small to risk random contact of ohmic material to the protective layer. Thus for example in certain embodiments of the present invention the gap may be from about 0.1 m to about 0.5 m.

The ohmic contact material is annealed to provide the ohmic contacts . The anneal may be a high temperature anneal. For example the anneal may be an anneal at a temperature of greater than about 900 C. Through the use of an ohmic contact anneal the resistance of the ohmic contacts may be reduced from a high resistance to less than about 1 mm. Thus as used herein the term ohmic contact refers to a non rectifying contact that has a contact resistance of less than about 1 mm. The presence of the protective layer during the high temperature process steps may inhibit damage to the barrier layer that may be caused by such steps. Thus for example the sheet resistance of the gate region after the high temperature ohmic contact anneal may be substantially the same as the sheet resistance of the gate region as grown i.e. before the contact anneal .

As seen in a gate contact is formed in the recess and contacts the exposed portion of the barrier layer . The gate contact may be a T gate as illustrated in and may be fabricated using conventional fabrication techniques. Suitable gate materials may depend on the composition of the barrier layer however in certain embodiments conventional materials capable of making a Schottky contact to a nitride based semiconductor material may be used such as Ni Pt NiSi Cu Pd Cr W and or WSiN. Although it may be undesirable it is possible that a small gap between the protective layer and the gate contact may arise as a result of for example anisotropy of the low damage etch resulting in an exposed surface of the barrier layer between the protective layer and the gate contact .

While embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to a two mask process for forming opening gate contact windows and forming gate contacts with a gap to the protective layer illustrate operations for forming the ohmic contact windows and the ohmic contacts with a single mask. As seen in a mask such as a photoresist with a negative bevel may be formed on the protective layer . The negative bevel of the mask corresponds to the gap distance between the subsequently formed ohmic contacts and the patterned protective layer . The protective layer is isotropically etched using a low damage etch process as described above to provide the contact windows. Thus the contact windows will be defined by the bottom dimension of the mask . A mask layer without a negative bevel could also be used if the etch is isotropic and the low damage etch is substantially over etched to provide a lateral undercut to the desired spacing.

As seen in ohmic contact metal is evaporated on the resulting structure. The overhang of the mask defines the location where metal is deposited on the exposed barrier layer . Thus the contact metal is spaced apart from the patterned protective layer . The mask and the metal on the mask are removed to provide the structure of .

Techniques for providing a beveled mask as illustrated in are known to those of skill in the art. Furthermore while the mask is shown as having a bevel in other embodiments of the present invention the mask may have a step or other such configuration that provides a mask with two different apparent window sizes for the etch of the protective layer and the deposition of contact material. Thus for example multi layer photoresists are available that have different exposure sensitivity such that a single exposure may provide a mask with an overhang or step such that the window provided by the layer of photoresist proximate the protective layer is large than a window provided by the layer of photoresist spaced apart from the protective layer .

The anneal of the ohmic contact material regions is carried out with the protective layer in place. The protective layer may then be removed for example using a low damage etching technique such as those described above. The gate contact may then be formed before or after formation of a passivation layer . For example a layer of silicon nitride could be deposited by sputtering. A gate recess could then be etched for example using a low damage etch process as described above into the passivation layer and the gate formed in the recess. Such a process may provide for the silicon nitride passivation layer maintaining its full thickness to the edge of the T gate. Thus a transistor having a structure such as that illustrated in may be provided.

Alternatively the structure illustrated in may be provided utilizing the fabrication steps illustrated in however the protective layer may be removed either prior to or subsequent to the formation of the gate contact . In such a case the protective layer should be removed using low damage etching techniques such as those described above.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to particular HEMT structures the present invention should not be construed as limited to such structures. For example additional layers may be included in the HEMT device while still benefiting from the teachings of the present invention. Such additional layers may include GaN cap layers as for example described in Yu et al. Schottky barrier engineering in III V nitrides via the piezoelectric effect Applied Physics Letters Vol. 73 No. 13 1998 or in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002 0066908A1 filed Jul. 12 2001 and published Jun. 6 2002 for ALUMINUM GALLIUM NITRIDE GALLIUM NITRIDE HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTORS HAVING A GATE CONTACT ON A GALLIUM NITRIDE BASED CAP SEGMENT AND METHODS OF FABRICATING SAME the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. In some embodiments insulating layers such as SiNx or relatively high quality AlN may be deposited for making a MISHEMT and or passivating the surface. The additional layers may also include a compositionally graded transition layer or layers.

Furthermore the barrier layer may also be provided with multiple layers as described in United States Patent Publication No. 2002 0167023A1 to Smorchkova et al. entitled GROUP III NITRIDE BASED HIGH ELECTRON MOBILITY TRANSISTOR HEMT WITH BARRIER SPACER LAYER the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limiting the barrier layer to a single layer but may include for example barrier layers having combinations of GaN AlGaN and or AlN layers. For example a GaN AlN structure may be utilized to reduce or prevent alloy scattering. Thus embodiments of the present invention may include nitride based barrier layers such nitride based barrier layers may include AlGaN based barrier layers AlN based barrier layers and combinations thereof.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms have been employed they have been used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

