---

title: Apparatus, system, and method for facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact
abstract: An apparatus, system, and method are disclosed for facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact. A token giver gives a token to a token receiver through a personal contact. The purpose of the token is to facilitate communication between the token giver and token receiver. The token includes a token identifier that is uniquely associated with the token. The apparatus includes a receiver module for receiving the token identifier from the token receiver. In response to receiving the token identifier, a channel module establishes an electronic communication channel between the token giver and the token receiver. A transfer module provides, to the token receiver, initial electronic content customized for the token identifier. In response to a request from either the token receiver or the token giver, a transfer module brokers an electronic content transfer between the token receiver and the token giver via the electronic communication channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07788183&OS=07788183&RS=07788183
owner: The Galt Alliance, Inc
number: 07788183
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060331
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 670 724 entitled APPARATUS SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR NETWORK BASED PERSONAL OR BUSINESS CONTACT COMMUNICATION AND PROMOTION and filed on Apr. 13 2005 for Todd Romney which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to methods of building personal relationships for both personal and commercial purposes and more particularly relates to facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact.

Developing personal relationships is often a socially or professionally rewarding experience. However initiating contact with a stranger can be a stressful experience especially for people who are shy or reserved. An initial face to face conversation can be particularly stressful especially at the beginning of the conversation. At the conclusion of a face to face meeting two people may be interested in further developing the relationship but may not be comfortable with giving out personal contact information. Additionally the personal contact may be very brief. Hence providing personal contact information may be inconvenient or too time consuming or may be subject to errors in communicating the information during a brief encounter.

This reluctance may be due to a fear that if personal information is disclosed and the relationship does not work out the person who terminates the relationship may need to deal with harassment by the other party. The reluctance may be attributed to a concern for privacy convenience or personal safety.

If the two people happen to meet again for example because they live work or shop in the same geographic area they may further develop their relationship to the point that they are willing to share personal information such as more specific contact information. However they will not have this opportunity if they do not meet again. A method of facilitating electronic communication between the two people that allowed for further social exchange without disclosing personal information would assist in overcoming this challenge.

Conventional social networking web sites may assist in facilitating relationships but they have limitations. For example a subscriber to a conventional social contact website may create a personal web page including pictures text and perhaps video. Other subscribers to the social networking website are able to view the personal web page and initiate contact with the subscriber. However conventional social networking web sites do not allow the subscriber to customize the content presented to each subscriber so that each person who visits the personal web site sees a customized set of elements such as pictures text and video uniquely tailored for each new subscriber. In addition conventional social networking web sites do not provide resources for establishing a business relationship.

In a business setting it is beneficial for people to develop personal contacts with potential customers clients suppliers and partners. However people are often pressed for time and do not take advantage of the opportunity to develop a personal contact when first meeting someone. One may honestly desire to develop a personal contact for business reasons but may want to do so at a more convenient time or location. For example a professional at a conference may want to meet others who practice in the same line of work. However he may have a busy schedule during the conference that prevents him her from taking time to converse with others. In such situations business cards are typically used to exchange personal information so that future interactions will be possible.

Although business cards provide certain personal information they are not easily customized for a particular unique contact. For example a sales professional may want to provide product information about one product line to a new contact without confusing the contact with product information for another product line. In this example a business card may provide a URL that the contact may use to view a company website. However the company website will not be customized for a specific product line. Of course business cards with different URLs pointing a contact to a particular portion of the web site may be used but such use is often impractical

The sales professional may want to further customize information provided to a contact by providing a promotional item or by providing semi confidential information such as test results for a new product that is appropriately shared with certain contacts but not with others. Websites are not effective in providing such customization because generally anyone can view the content of a website. If the semi confidential information was posted on the web site it could be easily obtained by people who might exploit the information. However to build a relationship with a new contact it may be advantageous to share the semi confidential information with the contact. Special login IDs or passwords may be used with secure web pages. However communicating the login information to each potential contact is difficult.

From the foregoing discussion it should be apparent that a need exists for an apparatus system and method for facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact. The apparatus system and method should ensure that the parties are not required to initially disclose personal information. Additionally the apparatus system and method should provide a method of providing information customized uniquely for a particular personal contact.

The present invention has been developed in response to the present state of the art and in particular in response to the problems and needs in the art that have not yet been fully solved by currently available methods of facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact. Accordingly the present invention has been developed to provide an apparatus system and method for facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact that overcome many or all of the above discussed shortcomings in the art.

The apparatus for facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact is provided with a logic unit containing a plurality of modules configured to functionally execute the steps of facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact. These modules in the described embodiments include a receiver module a channel module and a transfer module. Preferably the apparatus includes an account module a fulfillment module a notification module an advertisement module a token module and a list module.

The receiver module receives a token identifier from a token receiver. The token identifier is uniquely associated with a token given. A token giver gives the token to the token receiver through a personal contact with the token receiver. The token identifier may comprise a machine readable code and may be a random value. In one embodiment the receiver module also receives context information that describes a context for the personal contact.

In one embodiment the token is either a virtual token or a physical token. In this embodiment the token comprises the token identifier. In the case of a physical token the token giver gives the physical token to the token receiver. In the case of a virtual token the token giver may distribute the virtual token to the token receiver electronically in response to personal contact between the token giver and token receiver. The physical token may be a coin sized object.

Once the receiver module has received the token identifier the channel module establishes an electronic communication channel between the token giver and the token receiver. In one embodiment the electronic communication channel may be either an asynchronous communication channel or a synchronous communication channel.

In one embodiment if either the token giver or token receiver submits a termination request the channel module disables the electronic communication channel. In one embodiment the electronic communication channel restricts disclosure of personal information between the token giver and the token receiver to explicit disclosure of the personal information through the electronic communication channel by either the token giver or the token receiver.

The transfer module brokers an electronic content transfer between the token receiver and the token giver via the electronic communication channel in response to a request from one of the token receiver and the token giver. In one embodiment the transfer module presents designated portions of the context information that is provided by the token giver to the token receiver. Similarly the transfer module may present designated portions of the context information that is provided by the token receiver to the token giver.

If either the token giver or token receiver submits a termination request the transfer module may in one embodiment reject a request to broker a subsequent electronic content transfer between the token receiver and the token giver. In another embodiment the transfer module may provide the token receiver with initial electronic content customized for the token identifier.

The initial electronic content may form a profile. The profile includes a set of elements. Each element may have a type such as a number text image audio video podcast web log blog Really Simple Syndication RSS personal information promotional code coupon web page file and the like.

In certain embodiments the initial electronic content includes a promotion. The promotion is associated with a set of promotion conditions. In this embodiment the account module debits an account associated with the token giver for the promotion once the token receiver satisfies the promotion conditions. In response the fulfillment module triggers fulfillment of the promotion for the token receiver. In one embodiment the promotion includes a free product sample and the set of promotion conditions includes providing personal information.

The notification module notifies the token giver after the receiver module receives the token identifier from the token receiver. The notification module may notify the token giver by sending an email message a voicemail message an instant message a text message a pager message a notification icon or the like. The advertisement module presents an advertising message for a vendor that provided the token to either the token receiver or the token giver.

The token module may in certain embodiments automatically exchange portions of context information designated by the token receiver and portions of context information designated by the token giver. In response the list module populates a token giver contact list with token description information from the token receiver and populates a token receiver contact list with token description information from the token giver.

Another embodiment of an apparatus for facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact includes an authentication module a content module a communication module and a token exchange module. The authentication module authenticates a token giver. The content module receives a set of selected elements forming a profile from the token giver. The content module associates the profile with initial electronic content for a particular token identifier designated by a token giver. The token identifier is uniquely associated with a token given to a token receiver through a personal contact with the token giver.

The token exchange module receives token exchange information from the token giver. The token exchange information may include a name of the token receiver a time of token exchange a date of token exchange a location of token exchange a topic of conversation between token giver and token receiver a photograph of token receiver or notes from a conversation between token giver and token receiver.

A system of the present invention is also presented for facilitating anonymous electronic communication based on a personal contact. The system in one embodiment includes a token receiver client application an electronic communication utility a network server a repository and a communication network. Preferably the system includes a token giver client application and a profile utility.

The token receiver client application accepts the token identifier from the token receiver and relays the token identifier to the electronic communication utility. The token receiver client application also presents initial electronic content provided by the electronic communication utility to the token receiver.

The electronic communication utility includes the modules of the first apparatus described above including the receiver module channel module and transfer module. Preferably the reorganization utility includes the account module fulfillment module notification module advertisement module token module and list module also described above. The network server hosts the electronic communication utility.

The repository stores a first association between a token identifier and a batch identifier and a second association between the batch identifier and the token giver. The repository provides the first and second associations to the electronic communication utility. The communication network couples the electronic communication utility token receiver client application network server and repository.

The profile utility includes the modules of the second apparatus described above including the authentication module content module communication module and token exchange module. The token giver client application accepts the set of selected elements forming a profile and provides the set to the profile utility.

A method for facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact is also provided. The method in the disclosed embodiments substantially includes the steps necessary to carry out the functions presented above with respect to the operation of the described apparatus and system.

A token identifier is received from a token receiver. Next an electronic communication channel is established between the token receiver and token giver. In one embodiment if the token receiver is a subscriber the electronic communication utility populates a token giver contact list with token description information of the token giver and a token receiver contact list with token description information of the token giver. Next an electronic content transfer is brokered between the token giver and token receiver.

Preferably the token giver is notified that the token identifier has been received. In certain embodiments an advertising message is presented to either the token giver token receiver or both. If a termination request is received from either the token receiver or token giver the electronic communication utility is disabled.

Another method for facilitating electronic communication based on a personal contact is provided. The method in the disclosed embodiments substantially includes the steps necessary to carry out the functions presented above with respect to the operation of the described apparatus and system.

A token giver is authenticated. Next a set of selected elements is received from the token giver. The set is provided to the electronic communication utility. In certain embodiments token exchange information is received from the token giver.

A method for facilitating anonymous electronic communication based on a personal contact is provided. An electronic communication utility is hosted. A token identifier is conveyed from a token receiver to the electronic communication utility. Initial electronic content is conveyed from a token giver to the electronic communication utility. The initial electronic content is provided to the token receiver.

A method for distributing tokens is provided. Tokens and corresponding token identifiers are acquired from a token vendor. The token vendor may be a manufacturer a token distributor or a token wholesaler. Each token identifier includes a batch identifier. The batch identifier may be associated with a plurality of tokens. The token s token identifiers are transferred to the token giver. The electronic communication utility receives both a token giver account identifier associated with a token giver and the batch identifier. The electronic communication utility correlates the token giver with the received batch identifier.

The apparatus system and method facilitate electronic communication based on a personal contact. The apparatus system and method do not require the disclosure of personal information and allow for customizing information for a particular personal contact. These features and advantages will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

A personal contact may also be virtual. For example a personal contact may comprise an email exchange. A personal contact may also comprise a token giver seeing a token receiver s profile published on a web page. For example a salesman may see a potential customer s name picture and email address on a website and choose to send a token to the potential customer. Although the salesman and customer have not met face to face the salesman s actions may still constitute a personal contact.

In the embodiment depicted in the token is a physical token. However other embodiments may use a virtual token. In the case of a physical token the token giver gives the physical token to the token receiver. In the case of a virtual token the token giver may distribute the virtual token to the token receiver electronically in response to personal contact between the token giver and token receiver. The token giver may electronically distribute the virtual token through an email message text message short message instant message or the like.

The token includes a token identifier that is uniquely associated with the token . The token identifier may comprise alphabetic characters numeric characters or a combination of alphabetic and numeric characters. In certain embodiments the token identifier may comprise a machine readable code a code that is machine readable and human readable code or a strictly human readable code. Furthermore the token identifier may be a random or semi random value. It may be advantageous to use a random or semi random token identifier to prevent a token receiver from predicting one or more other token identifiers based on the token identifier of a token received by the token receiver.

The token identifier may include a batch identifier . The batch identifier may be a portion of the token identifier . For example the batch identifier may be the first N characters of the token identifier where N is a number that is less than the total number of characters in the token identifier . Alternatively the batch identifier may be a distinct set of characters a distinct machine readable code or the like. In this embodiment the distinct identifier comprising the batch identifier is a subset of the token identifier .

In one embodiment the same batch identifier is used for a plurality of tokens. In this embodiment the token identifier comprises the batch identifier as well as an additional identifier. The additional identifier may be chosen so that it is unique for each of the tokens in a batch. Consequently each token of the plurality has a unique token identifier comprising a batch identifier common to all tokens within the plurality and an additional identifier unique for that particular token.

The token may be a real or virtual object of any appropriate material and form including but not limited to an easily portable token a useful physical object a decorative physical object an item of apparel a toy an electronic appliance an electronic signal and a virtual symbol or object. The token embodiment illustrated in is a roughly coin sized token composed of plastic metal or other suitable material.

In one embodiment the token in the form of a physical object comprises a portable object. The portable object token may be sized and shaped to facilitate carrying by a token receiver. The portable object token in certain embodiments comprise any one of a variety of portable items. The portable objects may serve as a token alternatively or in addition the portable objects may server as a token and at least one other purpose. The portable object token in certain embodiments comprise any of a variety of items. Examples of the portable object token include but are not limited to pens notepads letter openers drink coasters balloons water bottles cards balls stuffed animals stuffed toys sun glasses key chains buttons bottle openers mouse pads magnets pins calendars bags CDs and the like. The portable object token may comprise promotional items that are given away. The portable object token may be pocket sized may include an attachment mechanism for securing the portable physical token to another item. The attachment mechanism may include ties a snap a carabineer a hook Velcro and the like.

In one embodiment the batch identifier is selected by the token giver such that it may be a name number word word number combination or other symbol combination of the giver s choosing. In this embodiment the token identifier may be printed on a sticker to enable the token giver to create his or her own tokens .

In one embodiment advertisers may pay to have an advertising image such as a trademark or logo printed on the token . In a further embodiment advertisers purchasing such space may receive a portion of the revenue for the sale of the branded token . In a further embodiment the advertising image may be an endorsement by sports figures or other celebrities or may be a logo associated with certain events such as a fund raiser the Olympics or a school prom.

The system in one embodiment includes a token receiver client application an electronic communication utility a network server a repository and a communication network . Preferably the system includes a token giver client application a profile utility and a second network server . Those of skill in the art will recognize that the system may be more simple or complex than illustrated so long as the system includes modules or sub systems that correspond to those described herein.

The token receiver client application accepts the token identifier from the token receiver and relays the token identifier to the electronic communication utility . The token receiver client application also presents initial electronic content provided by the electronic communication utility to the token receiver . The token receiver client application may comprise a web browser application that presents and executes code such as Java JavaScript HTML XML and the like. Alternatively the token receiver client application may be a custom application that executes in an operating system such as Windows Windows Mobile Linux UNIX AIX Palm OS MAC OS and the like. The token receiver client application may execute on a computer personal digital assistant PDA wireless telephone or other communication or computing device.

The electronic communication utility receives a token identifier from a token receiver wherein the token identifier is uniquely associated with a token given to the token receiver through a personal contact with a token giver . The electronic communication utility also establishes an electronic communication channel between the token giver and the token receiver in response to receiving the identifier. Once the electronic communication channel has been established the electronic communication utility brokers an electronic content transfer between the token receiver and the token giver via the electronic communication channel.

The network server hosts the electronic communication utility . In one embodiment the network server is a web server. The web server may be either a hardware or a software web server and may execute on one or more computers. The network server may employ an operating system for example Windows Linux UNIX AIX and the like.

The repository in one embodiment stores a first association between a token identifier and a batch identifier and a second association between the batch identifier and the token giver . The repository provides the first and second associations to the electronic communication utility . The repository may be a database one or more files a program or another data storage device or subsystem. The repository may be located on the network server or may be located on a stand alone storage device. In certain embodiments the repository may be a redundant set of data storage devices that ensure that the repository is not lost due to a failure of a data storage device. In other embodiments the repository and electronic communication utility may be part of the same software application.

The communication network couples the electronic communication utility token receiver client application network server and repository so as to allow communication between these elements. The communication network may be a bus a wired network a wireless network or other connective communication technology. The communication network may employ the use of multiple layered communication protocols including Ethernet Internet Protocol IP Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Time Division Multiplexing TDM Peripheral Communication Interface PCI Small Computer System Interface SCSI and the like.

The system may in certain embodiments also include a token giver client application a profile utility and a second network server . In these embodiments the communication network enables communication between the token receiver client application network server repository token giver client application profile utility and second network server .

The token giver client application accepts a set of selected elements forming a profile from the token giver and provides the set to the profile utility . An element is a form of communicating information from one person to another. Typically the element represents the format for the information and the token giver supplies the content for the element. Consequently a selected element is a type of information formatting selected by a user which the user desires to communicate within the profile. The selected elements that form the profile may have a type such as a number text image audio video podcast web log blog Really Simple Syndication RSS personal information promotional code coupon web page file and the like. The profile formed by the selected elements may be one or more web pages. For example a token giver may create a profile comprising a web page that includes the token giver s name a text element a picture of the token giver an image element a diary of the token giver s recent activities a blog element and a welcome message an audio element . The token giver creates the profile using the token giver client application .

The token giver client application may comprise a web browser application that presents and executes code such as Java JavaScript HTML XML and the like. Alternatively the token giver client application may be a custom application that executes in an operating system such as Windows Windows Mobile Linux UNIX AIX Palm OS MAC OS and the like. The token giver client application may execute on a computer personal digital assistant PDA wireless telephone or other communication or computing device.

The profile utility authenticates a token giver and receives a set of selected elements from the token giver . The set of elements form a profile. The token giver may choose to use the profile as initial electronic content for a particular token identifier or set of particular token identifiers . Once the profile utility has received the set of elements the profile utility provides the selected elements to the electronic communication utility . The profile utility and electronic communication utility may in certain embodiments be part of the same software application.

The second network server hosts the profile utility . In one embodiment the second network server is a web server. The web server may be either a hardware or software web server and may execute on one or more computers. The second network server may employ an operating system for example Windows Linux UNIX AIX and the like. In embodiments with a second network server the network server and second network server need not be in the same physical location. In certain embodiments the second network server is unnecessary because the profile utility is hosted by the same network server that hosts the electronic communication utility .

The authentication module authenticates a token giver before allowing further communication between the token giver and the apparatus . The authentication module may use an authentication scheme known to those of skill in the art to authenticate the token giver . For example the authentication module may require a user name and password from the token giver . Alternatively the authentication module may require an account number or unique identifier.

The authentication module may use an encryption technique well known to those of skill in the art to encrypt information sent by the token giver so that the information is protected against interception. Preferably the token giver provides information required by the authentication module to the token giver client application which forwards the information to the authentication module . The token giver client application may encrypt the information before forwarding it to the authentication module .

Once the token giver has been authenticated by the authentication module the content module receives a set of selected elements. The content module may receive the set directly from the token giver or from the token giver client application . The content module associates the received set with the token giver . The content module may also additionally associate the received set with a particular token identifier .

A selected element is a piece of information that is used to build a profile. Each element may have a type such as a number text image audio video podcast web log blog Really Simple Syndication RSS personal information promotional code coupon web page file and the like. The token giver designates an arrangement of the elements to form a profile. The profile may be one or more web pages where each web page includes one or more elements. For example the profile may be a web page containing text audio video and images.

The token giver may create a unique profile for each token . Typically the token giver distributes a token to a token receiver . The token giver may note the token identifier of the token given to the token receiver . The token giver then creates a profile customized for the token receiver comprising a set of elements that the token giver selects specifically for the token receiver . Alternatively the token giver may define a profile by selecting a set of elements and providing the set to the content module prior to distributing the token .

For example a token giver may meet a token receiver at a party and give the token receiver a token . The token giver may then create a profile for the token identifier of the token given to the token receiver that includes image elements pictures of the party a blog element a description of the party and a text element an invitation for the token receiver to attend another party with the token giver . The token giver customizes the profile for the token receiver by selecting pictures that the token receiver is likely to be interested in viewing and by creating a personal invitation in the text element.

For example the token giver may be an antiques dealer at a trade show who meets many potential customers. The dealer may have a discussion with a particular customer about some antique tables that he has not brought to the show but that nevertheless are available for sale. The dealer may wish to provide pictures of the antique tables for the customer.

To facilitate further communication the dealer may give the customer a token . The dealer then notes the unique token identifier of the token given to the customer and then creates a profile customized for the customer. The profile may include photographs of the antique tables he has for sale the dealer s contact information such as name address and phone number and a coupon to entice the customer to buy from the dealer. The dealer then provides the customized profile to the content module .

This customized profile has the potential of being much more effective than a general website because the dealer has incorporated information that is useful to a particular customer in the profile. The customized profile saves the customer time since she may access information that she is interested in the pictures of the tables directly through the customized profile without having to search through information that she may not be interested in as would be required with a generic website.

The customized profile is also helpful to the dealer. The customized profile allows him to decide on a per customer basis whether or not to include a coupon and what the amount of the coupon should be. For example the dealer may decide to restrict coupons to customers that he believes are serious buyers.

In one embodiment the token giver client application enables the token giver to create a general profile containing elements that he will want to include in most customized profiles. For example if the token giver is a sales professional she may want to include an image element of her company trademark a text element containing her contact information and an image element illustrating her product. The general profile may also include a desired color scheme and desired element arrangement.

The token giver may then customize this general profile for a particular token identifier by simple editing a text element to provide a personalized message for the token receiver. The general profile reduces the amount of time required for the token giver to customize a profile for a particular token identifier . Of course the token giver may create multiple general profiles. Alternatively the token content module may provide one or more pre built general profiles that the token giver may modify.

Typically the token giver creates the set of elements for the profile using the token giver client application . The token giver client application then relays the set of elements forming a profile and the associated token identifier to the content module . The content module may also search the contents of the repository to verify that the token identifier for which the token giver has submitted the set of elements is associated with the token giver .

Once the content module has received the set of elements the communication module sends the set of elements and associated token identifier to the electronic communication utility . The content module may send this information in a number of ways. For example the information may be sent by placing it in a file or table where the electronic communication utility can access the information. The content module may also send the information through an application programming interface API . Alternatively the content module may use a method of electronic communication known to those of skill in the art such as a bus a network an API a function call a file a stream a feed web services or the like.

In certain embodiments the apparatus includes a token exchange module . The token exchange module receives token exchange information from the token giver . The token exchange information may include a name of the token receiver a time of token exchange a date of token exchange a location of token exchange a topic of conversation between token giver and token receiver a photograph of token receiver or notes from a conversation between token giver and token receiver .

The token exchange information is helpful because it reminds the token giver of the circumstances surrounding the distribution of a particular token . The token giver typically provides token exchange information to the token giver client application which relays the token exchange information to the token exchange module . The token exchange information may be used exclusively by the token giver as a reminder and is not shared with the token receiver . The token giver may retrieve token exchange information as needed using the token identifier . However in certain embodiments the token giver may choose to share the token exchange information with the token receiver by including the token exchange information in the set of elements forming a profile for the token receiver .

The receiver module receives a token identifier from a token receiver . The token identifier is uniquely associated with a token given to the token receiver by a token giver through a personal contact with the token receiver . Preferably the token receiver enters the token identifier in the token receiver client application and the token receiver client application relays the token identifier to the receiver module . In this embodiment the token receiver client application may be a web browser operated by the token receiver that displays a web page. The web page may have a blank entry box where the token receiver enters the token identifier . The token receiver may know which web page to call up by using a URL located on the token .

In one embodiment the receiver module compares the received token identifier with a set of token identifiers stored in the repository to determine if the received token identifier is known to the apparatus . If the received token identifier is not found in the repository the receiver module may present a message to the token receiver informing the token receiver that he or she has entered an invalid token identifier .

If the received token identifier is found in the repository the receiver module may determine the token giver associated with the received token identifier based on the first and second associations stored by the repository .

In one embodiment the token receiver client application may automatically read a token identifier comprising a machine readable code. For example the token identifier may be stored on persistent or non persistent storage media such as a USB drive flash drive floppy disk data card memory card hard drive and the like. In this embodiment the token receiver client application reads the token identifier directly from the storage media. This minimizes the effort required of the token receiver by eliminating the need for the token receiver to manually enter the token identifier . Of course the machine readable code may be encrypted for security purposes using encryption techniques well known to those of skill in the art.

In another embodiment the receiver module may automatically read a token identifier from a virtual token . For example the virtual token may be an email message or instant message containing a URL that includes a token identifier . In this embodiment the token receiver may click on the URL that includes a token identifier . Consequently the receiver module receives the token identifier in this case by receiving a request from the token receiver to open a URL associated with the particular token identifier .

In one embodiment the receiver module also receives context information from the token receiver . The context information describes the context in which the personal contact that resulted in the distribution of the token took place. For example context information may be 2006 Trade Show Antiques Booth or Apr. 1 2006 Party. 

The context information may comprise a label associated with the token identifier and assists the token receiver in remembering how he or she met the token giver . The context information may also comprise personal information such as the token receiver s name phone number email address and the like.

Typically the token receiver enters the context information in the token receiver client application . The token receiver may designate within the token receiver client application portions of the context information that may be shared with the token giver . For example the context information may comprise a plurality of fields on a web page presented by the token receiver client application . In this example the token receiver may designate which of the fields of the token description information are to be shared by clicking a checkbox next to the field. The token description information may include context information

For example the token receiver may choose to include her name the date and place of the token transfer and first impressions of the token giver in the context information. The token receiver may choose to designate particular portions of the context information that she is willing to share with the token giver . For example the token receiver may choose to designate her name as a portion of the context information to be shared with the token receiver . The token receiver client application relays the designated portions of the context information to the receiver module .

Alternatively the receiver module may receive context information from the token giver via the token giver client application . The token giver may designate within the token giver client application portions of the context information that may be shared with the token receiver .

Once the receiver module has received the token identifier the channel module establishes an electronic communication channel between the token giver and the token receiver . The electronic communication channel is an exclusive channel between the token giver and token receiver which preserves anonymity of the sender and the receiver and provides no way to determine the source user or destination user of communication messages. In one embodiment the electronic communication channel is an asynchronous communication channel. In general asynchronous channels allow the one party to send content through the channel that the receiving party may retrieve at sometime in the future independent of the time the message is sent.

For example the channel may comprise a web page on which the token giver may post pictures. The web page is configured such that only the token receiver may view the web page. Another example of an asynchronous channel is a channel that allows text messages to be sent from the token giver to the token receiver and from the token receiver to the token giver .

In another embodiment the electronic communication channel is a synchronous communication channel. In general synchronous channels convey content from one party to another at a particular time. To effectively communicate using a synchronous channel a receiving party needs to process a message such as spoken words or text shortly after the message is sent by a sending party because the message is time sensitive and may not be stored for future retrieval. For example a synchronous channel may comprise a voice over IP VOIP channel that enables real time voice communication between the token giver and token receiver . In this example the channel is synchronous because the token giver and token receiver both use the channel at the same time in order for the communication to be meaningful. For the communication to be effective the token receiver should be listening on the channel while the token giver is speaking. Instant messaging is another example of one form of a synchronous communication channel.

Of course the channel module may establish more than one electronic communication channel between the token giver and the token receiver simultaneously. For example the channel module may establish a channel that allows for posting of pictures an asynchronous channel and another channel that allows for a real time voice or chat conversation synchronous channel .

The transfer module brokers electronic content transfers between the token receiver and the token giver via the electronic communication channel. An electronic content transfer is a transfer of one or more elements from the token giver to the token receiver or from the token receiver to the token giver . An element as described above may be a number text image audio video podcast web log blog Really Simple Syndication RSS personal information promotional code coupon web page file and the like.

The transfer module enables communication between the token giver and the token receiver over the electronic communication channel while preventing others from participating in the communication. Consequently the transfer module preserves anonymity of the sender and the receiver and provides no way to determine the source user or destination user of communication messages.

In one embodiment if either the token giver or token receiver submits a termination request to the transfer module the transfer module disables the electronic communication channel. This feature allows either the token giver or the token receiver to unilaterally cease electronic communications. Alternatively the token receiver may choose not to view either the initial electronic content provided by the token giver or subsequent electronic content transfers provided by the token giver .

For example if the initial electronic content comprises a web page the token receiver may choose not to view the web page after providing the token identifier . The token receiver may further decide not to visit the web page in the future after initially providing the token identifier . In the mean time the token giver may add new content to the web page. However by deciding not the visit the web page the token receiver will not view the new content. In this manner the token receiver has effectively ceased communication with the token giver without having to disable the electronic communication channel.

For example suppose a man meets a woman at a social event and gives her a token . The woman may choose to utilize the apparatus by providing the token identifier on the token to the receiver module . Consequently the channel module will establish an electronic communication channel between the man and the woman.

The man may choose to send text messages through the channel to the woman or he may choose to initiate a VOIP telephone conversation with the woman. If the woman decides that she is no longer interested in communicating with the man she may send a termination request to the transfer module via the token receiver client application . As a result the transfer module will disable the electronic communication channel thereby preventing the man from continuing electronic communication with the woman.

The transfer module in another embodiment restricts disclosure of personal information between the token giver and the token receiver to explicit disclosure of the personal information through the electronic communication channel by either the token giver or the token receiver . For example the apparatus may have personal information about either the token giver or the token receiver including contact information such as email address phone number address name birth date or a personal identification number. The apparatus may use this information when billing the token giver or token receiver for services rendered by the apparatus .

However even though the apparatus may have access to this personal information the transfer module does not permit disclosure of the personal information. Consequently the token giver and token receiver may communicate through an electronic communication channel established by the channel module without ever knowing each other s name email address phone number etc. This is true for both synchronous and asynchronous channels. For example a VOIP telephone call could be established through the channel without either party knowing each other s phone number. This anonymous electronic communication channel is advantageous because it allows someone to begin a relationship knowing that he she can terminate the relationship without fear that the other person will retaliate by using her personal information to continue to contact or otherwise harass them.

Of course either the token giver or the token receiver could choose to disclose personal information directly through the electronic communication channel. For example the token giver could choose to send an address through a text message to the token receiver via a text message through the channel or the token receiver could choose to disclose her phone number in a video clip posted through the channel.

The channel module may perform configuration steps needed to establish the channel. The type of channel and the types of elements available on the channel may be controlled by configuration settings for the token giver token receiver or technical requirements. For example the token receiver may be using a communication device that does not have sound capability or does not have a display. Consequently the channel module may adapt the channel to the technical limits of the token giver or token receiver . Alternatively configuration settings of the token giver or the token receiver may permit only certain types of information to be exchanged such as text only or audio only. Consequently the channel established by the channel module may impose those desired limitations. Of course the channel module may lift certain restrictions in response to changes in the configuration information for the token giver or the token receiver . In this manner either a token receiver or a token giver can expand the richness of the communication channel as his her comfort level improves regarding the token receiver or a token giver on the other end.

In one embodiment the transfer module serves as a middleman relaying information submitted by the token receiver to the token giver through either the electronic communication channel. For example the transfer module may relay context information received from the token receiver to the token giver . Of course if either the token giver or token receiver submits a termination request the transfer module may in one embodiment reject a request to broker a subsequent electronic content transfer between the token giver and the token receiver .

The transfer module may also provide initial electronic content corresponding to the token identifier to the token receiver . The initial electronic content is content that the token giver has customized for a particular token identifier . The initial electronic content may comprise a profile. A profile as described above in relation to is a set of one or more elements such as a number text image audio video podcast web log blog Really Simple Syndication RSS personal information promotional code coupon web page file and the like.

Typically the initial electronic content is the first thing that the token receiver sees after entering the token identifier in the token receiver client application . The transfer module provides the initial electronic content to the token receiver client application . The token receiver may choose to send the token giver a subsequent message in the form of one of the elements described above text image audio etc. . The transfer module in one embodiment receives the subsequent message via the token receiver client application .

If the token giver is currently using a token giver client application the transfer module may relay the subsequent message directly to the token giver client application . Alternatively if the token giver is not currently using a token giver client application the transfer module may store the subsequent message and relay the subsequent message to the token giver once he starts using a token giver client application .

In another embodiment the transfer module may enable the token giver client application and token receiver client application to communicate directly with each other instead of relaying messages through the transfer module . In this embodiment the transfer module may provide addressing information such as an Internet Protocol IP address to the token giver client application and token receiver client application .

In certain embodiments the initial electronic content includes a promotion. The promotion may be associated with a set of promotion conditions. For example the promotion may be a free product sample and the promotion condition may be that the token receiver provide his her home address so that the token giver can send him her printed advertising through the mail in the future.

In this embodiment the account module debits an account associated with the token giver for the promotion once the token receiver satisfies the promotion conditions. In the above example once the token receiver provides his her home address the promotion condition is satisfied. In this example the account module then debits an account associated with the token giver by recording the quantity and type of product sample given away. The account module may also record a dollar value associated with the product sample.

Alternatively the token receiver may not satisfy the promotion conditions. In this example the token giver s account will not be debited. This is an advantageous manner to distribute promotional items since the token giver typically a salesperson will be debited for token receivers that are willing to satisfy the promotion conditions instead of distributing promotional items to all potential customers even those who are not that interested.

The account may be used by an external accounting system to bill the token giver for the product sample or merely to keep track of how many samples a token giver has given away. The account may be a file a variable a database or the like. The account need not be an actual bank account.

In response to the satisfaction of the promotion conditions the fulfillment module triggers fulfillment of the promotion for the token receiver . For example the fulfillment module may send a message to an external order entry system instructing the order entry system to ship a product sample to the token receiver . The message that the fulfillment module sends may be a message well known to those of skill in the art such as a function call a file an API call an email message a text message and the like.

In certain embodiments the notification module notifies the token giver after the receiver module receives the token identifier from the token receiver . The notification informs the token giver that the token receiver has accessed and presumably viewed the initial electronic content associated with the token identifier .

The notification module may notify the token giver by a method well known to those of skill in the art including sending an email message a voicemail message an instant message a text message a pager message a notification icon or the like. The notification icon may pop up on a desktop window. Additionally the notification module may send a notification to the token giver or token receiver when the transfer module stores new content that has not yet been presented to the token giver via the token giver client application or to the token receiver via the token receiver client application .

In certain embodiments the apparatus includes an advertisement module . The advertisement module presents an advertising message either to the token giver via the token giver client application or to the token receiver via the token receiver client application . The advertising message may be from a vendor that provided the token or from another vendor such as the token giver . The advertising message may be in the form of one of the elements describes above such as text image audio video podcast web log blog Really Simple Syndication RSS promotional code coupon web page file and the like.

In certain situations both the token giver and the token receiver may be subscribers to the services that the apparatus provides. Normally the token receiver may not be a subscriber to the services. However if the token receiver in a particular situation is a person that has his her own tokens that he she distributes as a token giver he she will likely be a subscriber. In this situation the token module may automatically exchange token description information from the token giver and token description information from the token receiver .

The token description information as described above is information that includes detailed information about the token. The token description information may include context information contact information subscriber user name information and the like.

In response to the exchange of token description information performed by the channel module the list module populates a token giver contact list with the token description information from the token receiver and populates a token receiver contact list with the token description information from the token giver . These lists may be stored by the apparatus . The token giver contact list may be accessed using the token giver client application and the token receiver contact list may be accessed using the token receiver client application . The token giver or token receiver may use the token description information in the contact lists to contact each other later.

Exchanging token description information is advantageous because it allows the token receiver to initiate communication with the token giver using token description information from the token receiver contact list in the token receiver client application instead of having to enter the token identifier or other token description information which may be an arbitrary number that is easily forgotten or lost.

The method begins when the receiver module receives a token identifier from a token receiver . As discussed above in relation to a token receiver client application may relay the token identifier to the receiver module . Next the channel module establishes an electronic communication channel between the token receiver and the token giver . The channel module may establish both synchronous and asynchronous channels.

Preferably a determination is made as to whether the token receiver is a subscriber. If the token receiver is a subscriber the token module automatically exchanges token description information between the token giver and the token receiver . Next preferably the list module populates a token giver contact list with the token description information of the token receiver and populates a token receiver contact list with the token description information of the token giver .

The transfer module then brokers an electronic content transfer between the token giver and token receiver . As discussed above the transfer module may provide initial electronic content that has been customized for the token identifier to the token receiver .

In one embodiment a promotion is employed. A determination is made as to whether the token receiver has met the promotion conditions. If the promotion conditions are met an account module may debit the account of the token giver as discussed above in relation to . Additionally a fulfillment module triggers fulfillment of the promotion for the token receiver .

Next if there is no promotion or if there is a promotion and the fulfillment of the promotion has been triggered a notification module notifies the token giver that the receiver module has received the token identifier from the token receiver . In certain embodiments the notification module also notifies the token giver when there is new content stored by the transfer module that has not yet been presented to the token giver via the token giver client application .

Preferably an advertisement module presents an advertising message either to the token giver via the token giver client application or to the token receiver via the token receiver client application .

A determination is made as to whether a termination request has been received from either the token giver or the token receiver . If a termination request has been received the channel module disables the electronic communication channel and the method ends . If a termination request has not been received the method continues to broker electronic content transfers between the token giver and token receiver .

The method begins when the authentication module authenticates a token giver . The content module then receives a set of selected elements forming profile. Typically the set is sent by the token giver via the token giver client application . Next the communication module provides the set of selected elements to the electronic communication utility .

Preferably the token exchange module receives token exchange information from the token giver . Typically the token giver provides token exchange information to the token giver client application which relays the token exchange information to the token exchange module . The method ends .

The service may host the electronic communication utility by installing the utility on a network server connected to a communication network . Next the service provider conveys a token identifier received from the token receiver to the electronic communication utility . The service provider conveys the token identifier by configuring a communication network to relay a message containing the token identifier from the token receiver client application to the electronic communication utility .

Next the service provider conveys initial electronic content customized for the token identifier from the token giver client application to the electronic communication utility . The service provider provides the initial electronic content to the token receiver client application and the method ends .

Once tokens have been distributed to a token giver the electronic communication utility and profile utility need to be informed of the transfer.

The batch identifier is associated with a plurality of tokens transferred by the token vendor to the token giver . As described above in relation to each token identifier includes the batch identifier .

In some situations the token vendor may transfer a first set of tokens having a first batch identifier and a second set of tokens having a second batch identifier to the token giver . In these situations the token vendor or token giver sends the token giver s account identifier and both batch identifiers to the electronic communication utility . In certain embodiments the token vendor or token giver may send the account identifier and batch identifier to the repository rather than to the electronic communication utility .

The account identifier may be one or more alphanumeric characters that identify an account associated with the token giver . For example the account identifier may be a user name or account number. The user name or account number may be selected such that it does not disclose personal information such as the user s true name. In this situation the user name is typically referred to as a screen name or alias. Each token giver may have an account identifier.

Typically the account identifier is selected by the token giver . If a person who is a token receiver with respect to a particular token exchange is also a token giver for a different token exchange that person may also have an account identifier since that person is already known to the apparatus due to a prior situation in which that person was a token giver .

Next the electronic communication utility correlates the batch identifier with the token giver s account identifier and stores the correlation in the repository . Correlation may involve searching the repository for the token giver s account identifier to determine if the token giver is a current subscriber. Correlation may also involve associating the received batch identifier with the token giver s account identifier in the repository .

The electronic communication utility may also associate the received batch identifier with a set of token identifiers that include the received batch identifier. The electronic communication utility may consult a master list of token identifiers and corresponding batch identifiers to determine the set of token identifiers that include the received batch identifier. The master list may be stored in the repository and may be received from a token manufacturer token wholesaler token distributor or token retailer. The method ends .

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussion of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as data value programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code could be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

