---

title: SHIP-deficiency to increase megakaryocyte progenitor production
abstract: The invention concerns a method for increasing megakaryocyte and megakaryocyte progenitor numbers in vitro or in vivo by suppressing SH2-containing inositol-5-phosphatase (SHIP) function in megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors expressing the SHIP gene. SHIP function can be suppressed by administering an interfering RNA, or other SHIP inhibitor, to the megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors in vitro or in vivo.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07763592&OS=07763592&RS=07763592
owner: University of South Florida
number: 07763592
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060612
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 904 667 filed Nov. 22 2004 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 481 677 filed Nov. 20 2003 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety including any figures tables nucleic acid sequences amino acid sequences and drawings.

The subject matter of this application has been supported by research grants from the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of America and the National Institutes of Health under grant numbers HL072523 and CA087989. Accordingly the government may have has certain rights in this invention.

The Sequence Listing for this application is on duplicate compact discs labeled Copy 1 and Copy 2. Copy 1 and Copy 2 each contain only one file named Jun06.5T25.txt which was created on Jun. 7 2006 and is 52 KB. The entire contents of each of the computer discs are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Platelets are critical for blood clotting. However in various human anemias and in bone marrow transplant patients platelets and the megakaryocytes they are derived from can drop below a critical threshold that is required to maintain normal clotting. This can require platelet transfusions that are very expensive and which place the patient at risk for infection by blood borne pathogens e.g. HIV HepB and C .

SH2 containing 5 inositol phosphatase 1 SHIP can catalyze the removal of the 5 phosphate group from PIP3 PIP3 Damen J. E. et al. 1996 93 1689 1693 . In this manner SHIP regulates survival and proliferation of various hematopoietic cell types. The numbers of myeloid cells and osteoclasts are increased in SHIP deficient mice due to enhanced activity of the phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase PI3K Akt signaling pathway that promotes their survival Takeshita S. et al. 2002 8 943 949 Helgason C. D. et al. 1998 12 1610 1620 Liu Q. et al. 1999 13 786 791 .

Furthermore the present inventors have shown that the number of natural killer cells are increased in SHIP deficient mice resulting in an enhancement of engraftment of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell grafts Wang J. W. et al. 2002 295 2094 2097 . SHIP is also known to influence signaling pathways downstream of receptors for chemokines and cytokines involved in megakaryocytopoiesis and thrombopoiesis such as Stromal cell derived Factor 1 SDF 1 CXCL 12 Wang J. F. et al. 1998 92 756 764 Hamada T. et al. 1998 188 539 548 Hattori K. et al. 2001 97 3354 3360 Avecilla S. T. et al. 2004 10 64 71 Chemock R. D. et al. 2001 97 608 615 interleukin 3 Liu L. et al. 1994 14 6926 6935 and thrombopoietin TPO Lok S. et al. 1994 369 565 568 Drachman J. G. et al. 1997 94 2350 2355 . SHIP is phosphorylated after TPO binding to its receptor c mpl leading to activation of PI3K that promotes cycling of megakaryocytes MK Drachman J. G. et al. 1997 94 2350 2355 Drachman J. G. et al. 1997 89 483 492 Geddis A. E. et al. 2001 276 34473 34479 . TPO influences MK development by controlling their proliferation differentiation survival and endoduplication Kaushansky K. et al. 1994 369 568 571 . Circulating platelets sequester free TPO and thereby limit megakaryocytopoiesis during steady state hematopoiesis Kaushansky K. 1998 339 746 754 . Furthermore SDF 1 CXCL12 induces transendothelial MK migration and platelet production in vitro Wang J. F. et al. 1998 92 756 764 Hamada T. et al. 1998 188 539 548 and in vivo Hattori K. et al. 2001 97 3354 3360 . The present inventors have also shown that it enhances human thrombocytopoiesis in xenotransplanted NOD SCID mice Perez L. E. et al. 2004 32 300 307 . SHIP deficient myeloid progenitors exhibit enhanced chemotaxis towards SDF 1 CXCL 12 indicating SHIP influences signaling downstream of CXCR 4 Kim C. H. et al. 1999 104 1751 1759 . In addition SHIP has been shown to regulate PIP3 levels after thrombin or collagen activation of platelets Giuriato S. et al. 1997 272 26857 26863 Giuriato S. et al. 2003 376 199 207 .

Thus the present inventors hypothesized that SHIP may also be involved in the regulation of megakaryocytopoiesis and platelet production in vivo. It has been reported that colony forming unit megakaryocyte CFU Mk are decreased in SHIP bone marrow BM Moody J. L. et al. 2004 103 4503 10 .

A naturally occurring gene silencing mechanism triggered by double stranded RNA dsRNA designated as small interfering RNA siRNA has emerged as a very important tool to suppress or knock down gene expression in many systems. RNA interference is triggered by dsRNA that is cleaved by an RNAse III like enzyme Dicer into 21 25 nucleotide fragments with characteristic 5 and 3 termini Provost P. D. et al. 2002 21 5864 . These siRNAs act as guides for a multi protein complex including a PAZ PIWI domain containing the protein Argonaute2 that cleaves the target mRNA Hammond S. M. et al. 2001 293 1146 1150 . These gene silencing mechanisms are highly specific and potent and can potentially induce inhibition of gene expression throughout an organism. The short interference RNA siRNA approach has proven effective in silencing a number of genes of different viruses Fire A. 1999 15 358 363 .

RNA interference RNAi is a polynucleotide sequence specific post transcriptional gene silencing mechanism effected by double stranded RNA that results in degradation of a specific messenger RNA mRNA thereby reducing the expression of a desired target polypeptide encoded by the mRNA see e.g. WO 99 32619 WO 01 75164 U.S. Pat. No. 6 506 559 Fire et al. 391 806 11 1998 Sharp 13 139 41 1999 Elbashir et al. 411 494 98 2001 Harborth et al. 114 4557 65 2001 . RNAi is mediated by double stranded polynucleotides such as double stranded RNA dsRNA having sequences that correspond to exonic sequences encoding portions of the polypeptides for which expression is compromised. RNAi reportedly is not effected by double stranded RNA polynucleotides that share sequence identity with intronic or promoter sequences Elbashir et al. 2001 . RNAi pathways have been best characterized in and but small interfering RNA siRNA polynucleotides that interfere with expression of specific polynucleotides in higher eukaryotes such as mammals including humans have also been considered e.g. Tuschl 2001 2 239 245 Sharp 2001 15 485 Bernstein et al. 2001 RNA 7 1509 Zamore 2002 296 1265 Plasterk 2002 296 1263 Zamore 2001 8 746 Matzke et al. 2001 293 1080 Scadden et al. 2001 2 1107 .

According to a current non limiting model the RNAi pathway is initiated by ATP dependent cleavage of long dsRNA into double stranded fragments of about 18 27 e.g. 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 etc. nucleotide base pairs in length called small interfering RNAs siRNAs see review by Hutvagner et al. 12 225 32 2002 Elbashir et al. 2001 Nyknen et al. 107 309 21 2001 Zamore et al. 101 25 33 2000 . In an enzyme known as Dicer cleaves the longer double stranded RNA into siRNAs Dicer belongs to the RNase III family of dsRNA specific endonucleases WO 01 68836 Bernstein et al. 409 363 66 2001 . Further according to this non limiting model the siRNA duplexes are incorporated into a protein complex followed by ATP dependent unwinding of the siRNA which then generates an active RNA induced silencing complex RISC WO 01 68836 . The complex recognizes and cleaves a target RNA that is complementary to the guide strand of the siRNA thus interfering with expression of a specific protein Hutvagner et al. supra .

In and RNAi may be mediated by long double stranded RNA polynucleotides WO 99 32619 WO 01 75164 Fire et al. 1998 Clemens et al. 97 6499 6503 2000 Kisielow et al. 363 1 5 2002 see also WO 01 92513 RNAi mediated silencing in yeast . In mammalian cells however transfection with long dsRNA polynucleotides i.e. greater than 30 base pairs leads to activation of a non specific sequence response that globally blocks the initiation of protein synthesis and causes mRNA degradation Bass 411 428 29 2001 . Transfection of human and other mammalian cells with double stranded RNAs of about 18 27 nucleotide base pairs in length interferes in a sequence specific manner with expression of particular polypeptides encoded by messenger RNAs mRNA containing corresponding nucleotide sequences WO 01 75164 Elbashir et al. 2001 Elbashir et al. 15 188 200 2001 Harborth et al. 114 4557 65 2001 Carthew et al. 13 244 48 2001 Mailand et al. Mar. 18 2002 Mailand et al. 2002 4 317 .

siRNA may offer certain advantages over other polynucleotides known to the art for use in sequence specific alteration or modulation of gene expression to yield altered levels of an encoded polypeptide product. These advantages include lower effective siRNA polynucleotide concentrations enhanced siRNA stability and shorter siRNA oligonucleotide lengths relative to such other polynucleotides e.g. antisense ribozyme or triplex polynucleotides . By way of a brief background antisense polynucleotides bind in a sequence specific manner to target nucleic acids such as mRNA or DNA to prevent transcription of DNA or translation of the mRNA see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 168 053 U.S. Pat. No. 5 190 931 U.S. Pat. No. 5 135 917 U.S. Pat. No. 5 087 617 see also e.g. Clusel et al. 1993 21 3405 11 describing dumbbell antisense oligonucleotides . Ribozyme polynucleotides can be targeted to an RNA transcript and are capable of catalytically cleaving such transcripts thus impairing translation of mRNA see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 272 262 U.S. Pat. No. 5 144 019 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 168 053 5 180 818 5 116 742 and 5 093 246 U.S. Ser. No. 2002 193579 . Triplex DNA molecules refers to single DNA strands that bind duplex DNA to form a colinear triplex molecule thereby preventing transcription see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 176 996 describing methods for making synthetic oligonucleotides that bind to target sites on duplex DNA . Such triple stranded structures are unstable and form only transiently under physiological conditions. Because single stranded polynucleotides do not readily diffuse into cells and are therefore susceptible to nuclease digestion development of single stranded DNA for antisense or triplex technologies often requires chemically modified nucleotides to improve stability and absorption by cells. siRNAs by contrast are readily taken up by intact cells are effective at interfering with the expression of specific polynucleotides at concentrations that are several orders of magnitude lower than those required for either antisense or ribozyme polynucleotides and do not require the use of chemically modified nucleotides.

Due to its advantages RNAi has been applied as a target validation tool in research and as a potential strategy for in vivo target validation and therapeutic product development Novina C. D. and Sharp P. A. 2004 430 161 164 . In vivo gene silencing with RNAi has been reported using viral vector delivery and high pressure high volume intravenous i.v. injection of synthetic iRNAs Scherr M. et al. 2003 13 353 363 Song E. et al. 2003 347 351 . In vivo gene silencing has been reported after local direct administration intravitreal intranasal and intrathecal of siRNAs to sequestered anatomical sites in various models of disease or injury demonstrating the potential for delivery to organs such as the eye lungs and central nervous system Reich S. J. et al. 2003 9 210 216 Zhang X. et al. 2004 279 10677 10684 Dorn G. et al. 2004 32 e49 . Silencing of endogenous genes by systemic administration of siRNAs has also been demonstrated Soutschek J. et al. 2004 432 173 178 . It has been shown that siRNAs delivered systemically in a liposomal formulation can silence the disease target apolipoprotein B ApoB in non human primates Zimmermann T. S. et al. 2006 441 111 114 .

The unexpected observations below provide the basis for this invention which is directed to a method of increasing the yield of megakaryocytes and megakaryocyte progenitors through the inhibition of SHIP gene function.

As indicated above SHIP influences signals downstream of cytokine and chemokine receptors that play a role in megakaryocytopoiesis including the receptors for thrombopoietin and Stromal cell derived Factor 1 CXCL 12. Herein the present inventors show that two separate strains of mice with different SHIP mutations exhibit profound increases in megakaryocyte progenitors MKP LincKitCD41 and megakaryocytes MK LincKitCD41 in the hematopoietic compartment. However despite increased MKP and MK numbers platelet production is significantly lower in SHIP deficient mice. These findings demonstrate that SHIP is a key regulator of signaling pathways that control megakaryocytopoiesis in vivo.

Mice that lack expression of a SHIP gene exhibit increased levels of both megakaryocyte progenitors and megakaryocytes in the bone marrow and spleen. In fact megakaryocytes the immediate precursor of platelets are increased in the periphery of SHIP deficient mice approximately 10 to 100 fold. Therefore methods that inhibit SHIP expression its enzymatic activity or its signaling functions could be used in human patients in vivo to temporarily increase megakaryocytes during periods when their platelets drop below numbers sufficient to promote normal blood clotting. In a similar way SHIP expression or activity could be used to increase the yield of megakaryocytes and megakaryocyte progenitors in ex vivo expansion regimens that use human growth factors.

One embodiment of the invention is a method for increasing the yield of megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors in a patient in vivo comprising the steps of administering a therapeutically effective amount of a substance that inhibits SHIP function a SHIP inhibitor to the patient. The SHIP inhibiting substance can be for example one or more of the following interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotides ribozymes DNAzymes nucleic acid modifiers PNAs nonstandard nucleic acids aptamers decoys oligonucleotide based gene regulation or dominant negative mutants.

Another embodiment relates to a method for increasing the yield of megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors in a sample in vitro e.g. a sample obtained from a patient ex vivo comprising providing a sample containing target cells and contacting the target cells in vitro with an efficacious amount of a substance that inhibits SHIP function. The SHIP inhibiting substance can be for example one or more of the following interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotides ribozymes DNAzymes nucleic acid modifiers PNAs non standard nucleic acids aptamers decoys oligonucleotide based gene regulation and dominant negative mutants. Target cells include megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors. The sample can be any composition containing megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors. For example the sample can be a biological sample obtained from a patient such as peripheral blood bone marrow spleen or other tissue or fluid containing megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors or a cell culture. Thus the step of providing a sample containing target cells can comprise harvesting a sample from a patient.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method for improving haematopoietic recovery in a patient in need thereof comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a substance that inhibits SHIP function to the patient. The SHIP inhibiting substance can be for example one or more of the following interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotides ribozymes DNAzymes nucleic acid modifiers PNAs non standard nucleic acids aptamers decoys oligonucleotide based gene regulation and dominant negative mutants. Target cells include megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method for improving haematopoietic recovery in a patient in need thereof ex vivo comprising harvesting target cells from a patient contacting the target cells with an efficacious amount of a substance that inhibits SHIP function and delivering e.g. re infusing the expanded target cells back into the patient. The target cells are chosen from among megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors.

SEQ ID NOs 16 17 are siRNA sequences designated H1 and H2 respectively that have been identified as effective at SHIP knockdown in human NK cell lines.

SEQ ID NOs 18 19 are shRNA sequences designated 63332 and 63331 respectively targeting human SHIP including the loop and termini portions of the shRNA.

SEQ ID NOs 20 21 are the target sequences within human SHIP for shRNA 6332 SEQ ID NO 18 and shRNA 63331 SEQ ID NO 19 respectively.

As described in detail in the Examples BM of SHIP deficient mice exhibit increased numbers of megakaryocyte progenitors MKP Lin c Kit CD41 but decreased numbers of MK Lin c Kit CD41 . In addition the present inventors observed expanded numbers of both MKP and MK in SHIP deficient spleens. Peripheral blood PB of SHIP deficient mice also contains increased numbers of MK relative to WT controls. However platelet levels in the PB of SHIP deficient mice were not significantly altered relative to WT controls.

The invention is based on a method of modulating megakaryocytes and their progenitors as a significant leap forward in the treatment of various human anemias. The present inventors reasoned that the identification of a novel gene involved in megakaryocyte production would lead to increased efficacy of current treatments. The clinical potential of such an approach is significant as it allows for modulation of a gene specific determinate of megakaryocyte production.

One embodiment of the invention is a method of increasing the yield of megakaryocytes in a patient in vivo comprising the steps of administering a therapeutically effective amount of a substance that inhibits SHIP function to the patient. The SHIP inhibiting substance can be for example one or more of the following interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotides ribozymes DNAzymes nucleic acid modifiers PNAs nonstandard nucleic acids aptamers decoys oligonucleotide based gene regulation or dominant negative mutants.

Another embodiment relates to a method of increasing the yield of megakaryocytes in a sample in vitro e.g. a sample obtained from a patient ex vivo comprising providing a sample containing target cells and contacting the target cells in vitro with an efficacious amount of a substance that inhibits SHIP function. The SHIP inhibiting substance can be for example one or more of the following interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotides ribozymes DNAzymes nucleic acid modifiers PNAs non standard nucleic acids aptamers decoys oligonucleotide based gene regulation and dominant negative mutants. Target cells include megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors. The sample can be any composition containing megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors. For example the sample can be a biological sample obtained from a patient such as peripheral blood bone marrow spleen or other tissue or fluid containing megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors or a cell culture. Thus the step of providing a sample containing target cells can comprise harvesting a sample from a patient. Optionally the method of the invention further comprises detecting the presence of megakaryocytes or their progenitors in the sample before during and or after administration of the SHIP inhibitor. Optionally the method of the invention further comprises isolating the megakaryocytes or their progenitors from the sample. Isolation of the cells may carried out before during and or after detection of the megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors within the sample.

Methods for detecting megakaryocytes and their progenitors are known in the art see for example Nakorn T. N. et al. 2003 100 205 210 Bruno E. and R. Hoffman. 1998 35 3 183 191 Ivanyi J. L. et al. 1993 95 1 79 88 Vannucchi A. S. et al. 2000 95 2559 2568 Boque C. et al. 1989 42 982 984 Long M. W. and C. H. Heffner 1998 16 1 62 70 Bruno E. et al. 1996 24 4 552 558 Long M. W. et al. 1998 82 5 1779 1786 U.S. patent publication US 2005 0003471 A1 Wang et al. each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety . For example megakaryocytes may be detected based on cell surface markers such as CD9 CD41 CD61 actin FVIIIRAg and optionally separated using flow cytometry.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method for improving haematopoietic recovery in a patient in need thereof comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a substance that inhibits SHIP function to the patient. The SHIP inhibiting substance can be for example one or more of the following interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotides ribozymes DNAzymes nucleic acid modifiers PNAs non standard nucleic acids aptamers decoys oligonucleotide based gene regulation and dominant negative mutants. Target cells include megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors.

Another embodiment of the invention relates to a method for improving haematopoietic recovery in a patient in need thereof ex vivo comprising harvesting target cells from a patient contacting the target cells with an efficacious amount of a substance that inhibits SHIP function and delivering e.g. re infusing the expanded target cells back into the patient. The target cells include megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors. Optionally the method of the invention further comprises isolating the megakaryocytes or their progenitors from the sample before during and or after administration of the SHIP inhibitor. Isolation of the cells may carried out before during and or after detection of the megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors within the sample.

As used herein the term SHIP refers to hematopoietic specific SH2 containing inositol 5 phosphatase 1 which catalyzes the removal of the 5 phosphate group from PIP3 PIP3 and inositol 1 3 4 5 tetrakisphosphate IP4 . SHIP which is also known in the scientific literature as SHIP 1 SHIP1 SHIPI and SHIP I was also the subject of Helgason et al. 1998 12 11 1610 1620 Huber et al. 1998 95 19 11330 11335 Liu et al. 1999 13 7 789 791 Liu et al. 1998 188 7 1333 1342 Rohrschneider et al. 2000 14 505 520 U.S. Pat. No. 6 090 621 Kavanaugh et al. PCT publication WO 9710252A1 Rohrschneider L. R. and PCT publication WO 9712039A2 Krystal G. . The nucleotide sequences of mouse SHIP and human SHIP for example have been publicly available for several years GenBank Accession Numbers NM10566 and NM005541 respectively on the National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI database .

The terms inhibitor of SHIP SHIP inhibitor and SHIP inhibiting substance are used herein interchangeably to refer to any molecule that decreases the activity of SHIP inositol phosphatase activity or decreases the protein level of SHIP. Thus a SHIP inhibitor can be a small molecule that decreases activity of SHIP e.g. by interfering with interaction of the inositol phosphatase with another molecule e.g. its substrate. The SHIP inhibitor can also be a small molecule that decreases expression of the gene encoding the inositol phosphatase. An inhibitor can also be an interfering RNA molecule antisense oligonucleotide a ribozyme an antibody or a dominant negative mutant of SHIP. Dominant negative mutants of SHIP have been developed Gupta N. et al. 1997 186 3 473 478 and Tridandapani S. et al. 2002 169 8 4370 4378 which are each incorporated herein by reference in their entirety . A direct inhibitor of SHIP is an inhibitor that interacts with the SHIP enzyme or substrate thereof or with a nucleic acid encoding SHIP e.g. the SHIP gene or its mRNA or its regulatory sequences. An indirect inhibitor of SHIP is an inhibitor that interacts upstream or downstream of the SHIP enzyme in the regulatory pathway and which does not interact with the enzyme or substrate thereof or with a nucleic acid encoding SHIP or its regulatory sequences.

The methods of the invention can further include a step of determining the amount or concentration of megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors in vitro e.g. in a sample or in vivo e.g. in a mammal before introduction of the SHIP inhibitor after introduction of the SHIP inhibitor or both. The terms detecting detection analyzing analysis and other grammatical variations thereof e.g. detecting megakaryocytes etc. refer to any quantitative semi quantitative or qualitative method for determining an analyte in general and a megakaryocyte or megakaryocyte progenitor in particular. For example a method that merely detects the presence or absence of a megakaryocyte or its progenitor in a samples lies within the scope of the term as do methods that provide data as to the amount or concentration of the cells in the sample.

As used herein the term polypeptide refers to any polymer comprising any number of amino acids and is interchangeable with protein gene product and peptide .

As used herein the term nucleoside refers to a molecule having a purine or pyrimidine base covalently linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar. Exemplary nucleosides include adenosine guanosine cytidine uridine and thymidine.

The term nucleotide refers to a nucleoside having one or more phosphate groups joined in ester linkages to the sugar moiety. Exemplary nucleotides include nucleoside monophosphates diphosphates and triphosphates. The terms polynucleotide and nucleic acid molecule are used interchangeably herein and refer to a polymer of nucleotides joined together by a phosphodiester linkage between 5 and 3 carbon atoms. The terms nucleic acid or nucleic acid sequence encompass an oligonucleotide nucleotide polynucleotide or a fragment of any of these DNA or RNA of genomic or synthetic origin which may be single stranded or double stranded and may represent a sense or antisense strand peptide nucleic acid PNA or any DNA like or RNA like material natural or synthetic in origin. As will be understood by those of skill in the art when the nucleic acid is RNA the deoxynucleotides A G C and T are replaced by ribonucleotides A G C and U respectively.

As used herein the term RNA or RNA molecule or ribonucleic acid molecule refers generally to a polymer of ribonucleotides. The term DNA or DNA molecule or deoxyribonucleic acid molecule refers generally to a polymer of deoxyribonucleotides. DNA and RNA molecules can be synthesized naturally e.g. by DNA replication or transcription of DNA respectively . RNA molecules can be post transcriptionally modified. DNA and RNA molecules can also be chemically synthesized. DNA and RNA molecules can be single stranded i.e. ssRNA and ssDNA respectively or multi stranded e.g. double stranded i.e. dsRNA and dsDNA respectively . Based on the nature of the invention however the term RNA or RNA molecule or ribonucleic acid molecule can also refer to a polymer comprising primarily i.e. greater than 80 or preferably greater than 90 ribonucleotides but optionally including at least one non ribonucleotide molecule for example at least one deoxyribonucleotide and or at least one nucleotide analog.

As used herein the term nucleotide analog also referred to herein as an altered nucleotide or modified nucleotide refers to a non standard nucleotide including non naturally occurring ribonucleotides or deoxyribonucleotides. Preferred nucleotide analogs are modified at any position so as to alter certain chemical properties of the nucleotide yet retain the ability of the nucleotide analog to perform its intended function.

As used herein the term RNA analog refers to a polynucleotide e.g. a chemically synthesized polynucleotide having at least one altered or modified nucleotide as compared to a corresponding unaltered or unmodified RNA but retaining the same or similar nature or function as the corresponding unaltered or unmodified RNA. As discussed above the oligonucleotides may be linked with linkages which result in a lower rate of hydrolysis of the RNA analog as compared to an RNA molecule with phosphodiester linkages. Exemplary RNA analogues include sugar and or backbone modified ribonucleotides and or deoxyribonucleotides. Such alterations or modifications can further include addition of non nucleotide material such as to the end s of the RNA or internally at one or more nucleotides of the RNA . An RNA analog need only be sufficiently similar to natural RNA that it has the ability to mediate mediates RNA interference or otherwise reduce target gene expression.

The terms operably linked or operatively linked are used herein interchangeably to refer to an arrangement of flanking sequences wherein the flanking sequences so described are configured or assembled so as to perform their usual function. Thus a flanking sequence operably linked to a coding sequence may be capable of effecting the replication transcription and or translation of the coding sequence. For example a coding sequence is operably linked to a promoter when the promoter is capable of directing transcription of that coding sequence. A flanking sequence need not be contiguous with the coding sequence so long as it functions correctly. Thus for example intervening untranslated yet transcribed sequences can be present between a promoter sequence and the coding sequence and the promoter sequence can still be considered operably linked to the coding sequence. Each nucleotide sequence coding for a siRNA will typically have its own operably linked promoter sequence.

The term vector is used to refer to any molecule e.g. nucleic acid plasmid or virus used to transfer coding information e.g. a polynucleotide of the invention to a host cell. The terms expression vector and transcription vector are used interchangeably to refer to a vector that is suitable for use in a host cell e.g. a subject s cell and contains nucleic acid sequences that direct and or control the expression of exogenous nucleic acid sequences. Expression includes but is not limited to processes such as transcription translation and RNA splicing if introns are present.

As used herein the term RNA interference RNAi refers to a selective intracellular degradation of RNA. RNAi occurs in cells naturally to remove foreign RNAs e.g. viral RNAs . Natural RNAi proceeds via fragments cleaved from free dsRNA which direct the degradative mechanism to other similar RNA sequences. Alternatively RNAi can be initiated by the hand of man for example to silence the expression of endogenous target genes such as SHIP.

As used herein the term small interfering RNA siRNA also referred to in the art as short interfering RNAs refers to an RNA or RNA analog comprising between about 10 50 nucleotides or nucleotide analogs which is capable of directing or mediating RNA interference.

As used herein a siRNA having a sequence sufficiently complementary to a target mRNA sequence to direct target specific RNA interference RNAi means that the siRNA has a sequence sufficient to trigger the destruction of the target mRNA e.g. SHIP mRNA by the RNAi machinery or process. mRNA or messenger RNA or transcript is single stranded RNA that specifies the amino acid sequence of one or more polypeptides. This information is translated during protein synthesis when ribosomes bind to the mRNA.

As used herein the term cleavage site refers to the residues e.g. nucleotides at which RISC cleaves the target RNA e.g. near the center of the complementary portion of the target RNA e.g. about 8 12 nucleotides from the 5 end of the complementary portion of the target RNA.

The term dominant negative mutant is art recognized and refers to the mutant form of a wild type protein that interferes with the function of the wild type protein e.g. by interacting with the wild type protein . Thus overexpression of the dominant negative mutant can be expected to interfere with the function of the wild type version of the protein.

As used herein the term mismatch refers to a basepair consisting of noncomplementary bases e.g. not normal complementary G C A T or A U base pairs.

As used herein the term isolated molecule e.g. isolated nucleic acid molecule refers to molecules which are substantially free of other cellular material or culture medium when produced by recombinant techniques or substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized.

As used herein the term in vitro has its art recognized meaning e.g. involving purified reagents or extracts e.g. cell extracts. The term in vivo also has its art recognized meaning e.g. involving living cells in an organism e.g. immortalized cells primary cells and or cell lines in an organism.

A gene involved in or associated with a disorder includes a gene the normal or aberrant expression or function of which affects or causes a disease or disorder or at least one symptom of the disease or disorder. The methods of the invention are useful in decreasing expression of SHIP in megakaryocytes and their progenitors in vitro or in vivo consequently increasing their proliferation. Thus the methods of the invention are useful in the treatment of human or non human animal subjects suffering from or at risk of developing disorders associated with impaired megakaryocyte production.

The methods of the invention may include further steps. In some embodiments a subject with the relevant condition or disease e.g. disorders associated with impaired megakaryocyte production is identified or a patient at risk for the condition or disease is identified prior to administration of the SHIP inhibitor. A patient may be someone who has not been diagnosed with the disease or condition diagnosis prognosis and or staging or someone diagnosed with the disease or condition diagnosis prognosis monitoring and or staging including someone treated for the disease or condition prognosis staging and or monitoring . Alternatively the person may not have been diagnosed with the disease or condition but suspected of having the disease or condition based either on patient history or family history or the exhibition or observation of characteristic symptoms.

As used herein an effective amount of a SHIP inhibitor such as an interfering RNA an antisense oligonucleotide or a ribozyme which selectively interferes with expression of SHIP is that amount effective to bring about the physiological changes desired in the cells to which the SHIP inhibitor is administered in vitro e.g. ex vivo or in vivo. The term therapeutically effective amount as used herein means that amount of SHIP inhibitor alone or in combination with another agent according to the particular aspect of the invention that elicits the biological or medicinal response in cells e.g. tissue s that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician which includes alleviation and or prevention of the symptoms of the disease or disorder being treated. Preferably suppression of SHIP function e.g. by reduction of SHIP expression results in increased megakaryocytopoiesis.

Various methods of the present invention can include a step that involves comparing a value level feature characteristic property etc. to a suitable control referred to interchangeably herein as an appropriate control . A suitable control or appropriate control is any control or standard familiar to one of ordinary skill in the art useful for comparison purposes. In one embodiment a suitable control or appropriate control is a value level feature characteristic property etc. determined prior to performing an RNAi methodology as described herein. For example a transcription rate mRNA level translation rate protein level biological activity cellular characteristic or property genotype phenotype etc. can be determined prior to introducing a siRNA of the invention into a cell or organism. In another embodiment a suitable control or appropriate control is a value level feature characteristic property etc. determined in a cell or organism e.g. a control or normal cell or organism exhibiting for example normal traits. In yet another embodiment a suitable control or appropriate control is a predefined value level feature characteristic property etc.

Reduction suppression of expression results in a decrease of SHIP mRNA and or protein. For example in a given cell the suppression of SHIP mRNA by administration of a SHIP inhibitor that reduces SHIP function by reducing SHIP expression such as interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotide or ribozyme results in a decrease in the quantity of SHIP mRNA relative to an untreated cell. Suppression may be partial. Preferred degrees of suppression are at least 50 more preferably one of at least 60 70 80 85 or 90 . A level of suppression between 90 and 100 is generally considered a silencing of expression. Where an increase in megakaryocytopoiesis is desired the level of suppression is sufficient to increase megakaryocyte or megakaryocyte progenitor production.

SHIP gene expression can be determined before and or after introduction of the SHIP inhibitor in vitro or in vivo. Reduction in SHIP gene expression can be detected at either the protein or mRNA level. Protein expression analysis can be performed by Western blotting immunofluorescence or flow cytometry and cell sorting FACS . Reduction in SHIP gene expression can be detected at the mRNA level by real time RT PCR microarray analysis or Northern blotting for example. Preferably all expression data is compared with levels of a house keeping gene to normalize for variable amounts of RNA in different samples.

RNAi is an efficient process whereby double stranded RNA dsRNA also referred to herein as siRNAs or ds siRNAs for double stranded small interfering RNAs induces the sequence specific degradation of targeted mRNA in animal and plant cells Hutvagner and Zamore 12 225 232 2002 Sharp 15 485 490 2001 . In mammalian cells RNAi can be triggered by 21 nucleotide nt duplexes of small interfering RNA siRNA Chiu et al. 10 549 561 2002 Elbashir et al. 411 494 498 2001 or by micro RNAs miRNA functional small hairpin RNA shRNA or other dsRNAs which can be expressed in vivo using DNA templates with RNA polymerase III promoters Zeng et al. 9 1327 1333 2002 Paddison et al. 16 948 958 2002 Lee et al. 20 500 505 2002 Paul et al. 20 505 508 2002 Tuschl T. 20 440 448 2002 Yu et al. 99 9 6047 6052 2002 McManus et al. 8 842 850 2002 Sui et al. 99 6 5515 5520 2002 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The scientific literature contains many reports of endogenous and exogenous gene expression silencing using siRNA highlighting their therapeutic potential Gupta S. et al. 2004 101 1927 1932 Takaku H. 2004 15 57 65 Pardridge W. M. 2004 4 1103 1113 Zheng B. J. 2004 9 365 374 Shen W. G. . Engl 2004 117 1084 1091 Fuchs U. et al. 2004 4 507 517 Wadhwa R. et al. 2004 567 71 84 Ichim T. E. et al. 2004 4 1227 1236 Jana S. et al. 2004 65 649 657 Ryther R. C. et al. 2005 12 5 11 Chae S S. et al. 2004 114 1082 1089 Fougerolles A. et al. 2005 392 278 296 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Therapeutic silencing of endogenous genes by systemic administration of siRNAs has been described in the literature Kim B. et al. 2004 165 2177 2185 Soutschek J. et al. 2004 432 173 178 Pardridge W. M. 2004 July 4 7 1103 1113 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Accordingly the invention includes such interfering RNA molecules that are targeted to SHIP mRNA. The interfering RNA molecules are capable when suitably introduced into or expressed within a cell that otherwise expresses SHIP mRNA of suppressing expression of the SHIP gene by RNAi. The interfering RNA may be a double stranded siRNA. As the skilled person will appreciate and as explained further herein an siRNA molecule may include a short 3 DNA sequence also. Alternatively the nucleic acid may be a DNA usually double stranded DNA which when transcribed in a cell yields an RNA having two complementary portions joined via a spacer such that the RNA takes the form of a hairpin when the complementary portions hybridize with each other. In a mammalian cell the hairpin structure may be cleaved from the molecule by the enzyme Dicer to yield two distinct but hybridized RNA molecules.

In one embodiment the invention provides an interfering RNA that is capable when suitably introduced or expressed within a cell that normally expresses SHIP mRNA suppresses its expression by RNAi wherein the interfering RNA is generally targeted to the SHIP enzymatic domain inositol 5 phosphatase domain within the human SHIP cDNA SEQ ID NO 1 . Examples of SHIP target sequences include GCCTGTTGTCATCCATTGA SEQ ID NO 3 ATAAGTTGGTGATCTTGGT SEQ ID NO 4 GCCACATCTGTACTGACAA SEQ ID NO 5 AGACAGGCATTGCAAACAC SEQ ID NO 6 ACATCACTCACCGCTTCAC SEQ ID NO 7 TCTTAACTACCGTGTGGAT SEQ ID NO 8 AATACGCCTACACCAAGCA SEQ ID NO 9 GTACCAGCGACATCATGAC SEQ ID NO 10 GCGACATCATGACGAGTGA SEQ ID NO 11 AGGACAGATTGAGTTTCTC SEQ ID NO 12 GGTGCTATGCCACATTGAA SEQ ID NO 13 GTTTGGTGAGACTC TTCCA SEQ ID NO 14 AGACGGAGCGTGATGAATC SEQ ID NO 15 GCTTCCAGAAGAGCATCTTAT SEQ ID NO 20 and GCCCATATCACCCAAGAAGTTT SEQ ID NO 21 . In a specific embodiment the interfering RNA comprises a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 16 SEQ ID NO 17 SEQ ID NO 18 and SEQ ID NO 19. Preferably the interfering RNA sequence is within the range of about 19 to 23 nucleotides. For example in those embodiments in which an shRNA is utilized that portion of the shRNA targeting SHIP is preferably within the range of about 19 to 23 nucleotides.

It is expected that perfect identity complementarity between the interfering RNA used in the method of the invention and the target sequence although preferred is not essential. Accordingly the interfering RNA may include a single mismatch compared to the target sequence within the SHIP mRNA. It is expected however that the presence of even a single mismatch is likely to lead to reduced efficiency so the absence of mismatches is preferred. When present 3 overhangs may be excluded from the consideration of the number of mismatches.

The term complementarity is not limited to conventional base pairing between nucleic acid consisting of naturally occurring ribo and or deoxyribonucleotides but also includes base pairing between mRNA and nucleic acids of the invention that include non natural nucleotides.

Short interfering RNAs siRNAs induce the sequence specific suppression or silencing i.e. reducing expression which may be to the extent of partial or complete inhibition genes by the process of RNAi. Thus siRNA is the intermediate effector molecule of the RNAi process. The interfering RNA that function as SHIP inhibitors include dsRNA molecules comprising 16 30 e.g. 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 or 30 nucleotides in each strand wherein one of the strands is substantially identical e.g. at least 80 or more e.g. 85 90 95 or 100 identical e.g. having 3 2 1 or 0 mismatched nucleotide s to a target region in the SHIP mRNA and the other strand is identical or substantially identical to the first strand. The dsRNA molecules that function as SHIP inhibitors can be chemically synthesized or can be transcribed in vitro from a DNA template or in vivo from e.g. shRNA. The dsRNA molecules can be designed using any method known in the art for instance by using the following protocol 

1. Using any method known in the art compare the potential targets to the appropriate genome database human mouse rat etc. and eliminate from consideration any target sequences with significant homology to other coding sequences. One such method for sequence homology searches is known as BLAST which is available at the National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI web site of the National Institutes of Health. Also available on the NCBI webs site is the HomoloGene database which is a publicly available system for automated detection of homologs among the annotated genes of several completely sequenced eukaryotic genomes and is readily utilized by those of ordinary skill in the art.

2. Select one or more sequences that meet your criteria for evaluation. Further general information regarding the design and use of siRNA can be found in The siRNA User Guide available at the web site of the laboratory of Dr. Thomas Tuschl at Rockefeller University Elbashir et al. 2001 20 6877 6888 .

3. Negative control siRNAs preferably have the same nucleotide composition as the selected siRNA but without significant sequence complementarity to the appropriate genome. Such negative controls can be designed by randomly scrambling the nucleotide sequence of the selected siRNA a homology search can be performed to ensure that the negative control lacks homology to any other gene in the appropriate genome. In addition negative control siRNAs can be designed by introducing one or more base mismatches into the sequence.

Initially basic criteria were defined for identification of efficient siRNA such as GC content and position of the targeted sequence in the context of the mRNA Elbashir S M. et al. 2002 26 199 213 . Further progress was achieved more recently when the assembly of the RNAi enzyme complex was described as being dependent on thermodynamic characteristics of the siRNA Khrvorova A. et al. 2003 115 209 216 Schwarz D. S. et al. 2003 115 199 208 . The relative stability of both ends of the duplex was determined to have effects on the extent to which the individual strands enter the RNAi pathway. In addition certain sequence motifs at defined positions of the siRNA were reported to influence its potency Amarzguioui M. and H. Prydz 2004 316 1050 1058 Reynolds A. et al. 2004 22 326 330 . On this basis sophisticated algorithms have been developed to increase the success rate of siRNA design and are available to those skilled in the art Amarzguioui M. and H. Prydz 2004 Reynolds A. et al. 2004 and Ui Tei K. et al. 2004 32 936 948 each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety .

Other computational tools that may be used to select siRNAs of the present invention include the Whitehead siRNA selection Web Server from the bioinformatics group at the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge Mass. and other disclosed in Yuan B. et al. siRNA Selection Server an automated siRNA oligonucleotide prediction server 2004 Vol. 32 W130 W134 Web Server issue and Bonetta L. RNAi Silencing never sounded better October 2004 1 1 79 86 each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The efficiencies of different siRNAs may differ significantly. However strategies for rational design of effective interfering RNA exist Gong D. and J. E. Ferrell Jr. TRENDS in Biotechnology 2004 22 9 451 Schubert S. et al. 2005 348 883 893 Pancoska P. et al. 2004 32 4 1469 1479 Mittal V. 2004 5 5 355 365 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

Screening for the most efficient siRNAs using cell cultures may be carried out. Several in vitro screening methods based on the use of siRNA mixtures which may contain a particular efficient siRNA or several have been developed. These include the preparation of siRNA mixtures using RNase III or Dicer enzymes to digest longer double stranded RNAs such as BLOCK IT products INVITROGEN Carlsbad Calif. Yang D. et al. 2002 99 9942 9947 Myers J. W. et al. 2003 21 324 328 . The short RNAs produced as a result of these digestions have been found to be efficient in RNAi. Oligonucleotide arrays can also be used for the efficient preparation of defined mixtures of siRNAs for reducing the expression of exogenous and endogenous genes such as SHIP Oleinikov A. V. et al. 2005 33 10 e92 .

The SHIP inhibitors of the invention can include both unmodified siRNAs and modified siRNAs as known in the art. Thus the invention includes siRNA derivatives that include siRNA having two complementary strands of nucleic acid such that the two strands are crosslinked. For example a 3 OH terminus of one of the strands can be modified or the two strands can be crosslinked and modified at the 3 OH terminus. The siRNA derivative can contain a single crosslink e.g. a psoralen crosslink . In some embodiments the siRNA derivative has at its 3 terminus a biotin molecule e.g. a photocleavable biotin a peptide e.g. a Tat peptide a nanoparticle a peptidomimetic organic compounds e.g. a dye such as a fluorescent dye or dendrimer. Modifying siRNA derivatives in this way can improve cellular uptake or enhance cellular targeting activities of the resulting siRNA derivative as compared to the corresponding siRNA are useful for tracing the siRNA derivative in the cell or improve the stability of the siRNA derivative compared to the corresponding siRNA.

The SHIP inhibitors of the invention can be unconjugated or can be conjugated to another moiety such as a nanoparticle to enhance a property of the compositions e.g. a pharmacokinetic parameter such as absorption efficacy bioavailability and or half life. The conjugation can be accomplished by methods known in the art e.g. using the methods of Lambert et al. 47 1 99 112 2001 describes nucleic acids loaded to polyalkylcyanoacrylate PACA nanoparticles Fattal et al. 53 1 3 137 43 1998 describes nucleic acids bound to nanoparticles Schwab et al. 5 Suppl. 4 55 8 1994 describes nucleic acids linked to intercalating agents hydrophobic groups polycations or PACA nanoparticles and Godard et al. 232 2 404 10 1995 describes nucleic acids linked to nanoparticles .

The SHIP inhibitors of the present invention can also be labeled using any method known in the art for instance nucleic acids can be labeled with a fluorophore e.g. Cy3 fluorescein or rhodamine. The labeling can be carried out using a kit e.g. the SILENCER siRNA labeling kit AMBION . Additionally the siRNA can be radiolabeled e.g. using H P or other appropriate isotope.

Because RNAi is believed to progress via at least one single stranded RNA intermediate the skilled artisan will appreciate that ss siRNAs e.g. the antisense strand of a ds siRNA can also be designed as described herein and utilized according to the claimed methodologies.

There are a number of companies that will generate interfering RNAs for a specific gene. Thermo Electron Corporation Waltham Mass. has launched a custom synthesis service for synthetic short interfering RNA siRNA . Each strand is composed of 18 20 RNA bases and two DNA bases overhang on the 3 terminus. Dharmacon Inc. Lafayette Colo. provides siRNA duplexes using the 2 ACE RNA synthesis technology. Qiagen Valencia Calif. uses TOM chemistry to offer siRNA with high individual coupling yields Li B. et al. 2005 11 9 944 951 .

Synthetic siRNAs can be delivered into cells by methods known in the art including cationic liposome transfection LIPOFECTAMINE 2000 reagent for example and electroporation for example. However these exogenous siRNA generally show short term persistence of the silencing effect 4 to 5 days in cultured cells which may be beneficial in certain embodiments. To obtain longer suppression of SHIP expression and to facilitate delivery under certain circumstances one or more siRNA duplexes e.g. SHIP ds siRNA can be expressed within cells from recombinant DNA constructs McIntyre G. J. and G. C. Fanning 2006 6 1 8 . Such methods for expressing siRNA duplexes within cells from recombinant DNA constructs to allow longer term target gene suppression in cells are known in the art including mammalian Pol III promoter systems e.g. H1 or U6 snRNA promoter systems Tuschl 2002 supra capable of expressing functional double stranded siRNAs Bagella et al. 177 206 213 1998 Lee et al. 2002 supra Miyagishi et al. 2002 supra Paul et al. 2002 supra Yu et al. 2002 supra Sui et al. 2002 supra . Transcriptional termination by RNA Pol III occurs at runs of four consecutive T residues in the DNA template providing a mechanism to end the siRNA transcript at a specific sequence. The siRNA is complementary to the sequence of the target gene in 5 3 and 3 5 orientations and the two strands of the siRNA can be expressed in the same construct or in separate constructs. Hairpin siRNAs driven by an H1 or U6 snRNA promoter can be expressed in cells and can inhibit target gene expression Bagella et al. 1998 supra Lee et al. 2002 supra Miyagishi et al. 2002 supra Paul et al. 2002 supra Yu et al. 2002 supra Sui et al. 2002 supra . Constructs containing siRNA sequence s under the control of a T7 promoter also make functional siRNAs when co transfected into the cells with a vector expressing T7 RNA polymerase Jacque 2002 supra . A single construct may contain multiple sequences coding for siRNAs such as multiple regions of SHIP mRNA and can be driven for example by separate PolIII promoter sites.

Animal cells express a range of noncoding RNAs of approximately 22 nucleotides termed micro RNA miRNAs which can regulate gene expression at the post transcriptional or translational level during animal development. One common feature of miRNAs is that they are all excised from an approximately 70 nucleotide precursor RNA stem loop probably by Dicer an RNase III type enzyme or a homolog thereof. By substituting the stem sequences of the miRNA precursor with miRNA sequence complementary to the target mRNA a vector construct that expresses the novel miRNA can be used to produce siRNAs to initiate RNAi against specific mRNA targets in mammalian cells Zeng 2002 supra . When expressed by DNA vectors containing polymerase III promoters micro RNA designed hairpins can silence gene expression McManus 2002 supra . Viral mediated delivery mechanisms can also be used to induce specific silencing of targeted genes through expression of siRNA for example by generating recombinant adenoviruses harboring siRNA under RNA Pol II promoter transcription control Xia et al. 2002 supra . Infection of HeLa cells by these recombinant adenoviruses allows for diminished endogenous target gene expression. Injection of the recombinant adenovirus vectors into transgenic mice expressing the target genes of the siRNA results in in vivo reduction of target gene expression. In an animal model whole embryo electroporation can efficiently deliver synthetic siRNA into post implantation mouse embryos Calegari et al. 99 22 14236 40 2002 . In adult mice efficient delivery of siRNA can be accomplished by the high pressure delivery technique a rapid injection within 5 seconds of a large volume of siRNA containing solution into animal via the tail vein Liu 1999 supra McCaffrey 2002 supra Lewis 32 107 108 2002 . Nanoparticles liposomes and other cationic lipid molecules can also be used to deliver siRNA into animals. It has been shown that siRNAs delivered systemically in a liposomal formulation can silence the disease target apolipoprotein B ApoB in non human primates Zimmermann T. S. et al. 2006 441 111 114 . A gel based agarose liposome siRNA formulation is also available Jiamg M. et al. 2004 Winter 14 4 239 48 .

Engineered RNA precursors introduced into cells or whole organisms as described herein will lead to the production of a desired siRNA molecule. Such an siRNA molecule will then associate with endogenous protein components of the RNAi pathway to bind to and target a specific mRNA sequence for cleavage and destruction. In this fashion the SHIP mRNA to be targeted by the siRNA generated from the engineered RNA precursor will be depleted from the cell or organism leading to a decrease in the concentration of any translational product encoded by that mRNA in the cell or organism. The RNA precursors are typically nucleic acid molecules that individually encode either one strand of a dsRNA or encode the entire nucleotide sequence of an RNA hairpin loop structure.

An antisense nucleic acid sequence antisense oligonucleotide can include a nucleotide sequence that is complementary to a sense nucleic acid encoding a protein e.g. complementary to the coding strand of a double stranded cDNA molecule or complementary to the SHIP mRNA. Antisense nucleic acid sequences and delivery methods are well known in the art Goodchild J. 2004 April 6 2 120 128 Clawson G. A. et al. 2004 Sept. 11 17 1331 1341 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The antisense nucleic acid can be complementary to an entire coding strand of a target sequence or to only a portion thereof. In another embodiment the antisense nucleic acid molecule is antisense to a noncoding region of the coding strand of a nucleotide sequence within the SHIP mRNA. An antisense oligonucleotide can be for example about 7 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 or more nucleotides in length.

An antisense nucleic acid sequence can be designed such that it is complementary to the entire SHIP mRNA sequence but can also be an oligonucleotide that is antisense to only a portion of the SHIP mRNA. For example the antisense oligonucleotide can be complementary to a portion of the SHIP enzymatic domain inositol 5 phosphatase domain or a portion of the amino terminal src homology domain SH2 .

An antisense nucleic acid of the invention can be constructed using chemical synthesis and enzymatic ligation reactions using procedures known in the art. For example an antisense nucleic acid e.g. an antisense oligonucleotide can be chemically synthesized using naturally occurring nucleotides or variously modified nucleotides designed to increase the biological stability of the molecules or to increase the physical stability of the duplex formed between the antisense and sense nucleic acids e.g. phosphorothioate derivatives and acridine substituted nucleotides can be used. The antisense nucleic acid also can be produced biologically using an expression vector into which a nucleic acid has been subcloned in an antisense orientation i.e. RNA transcribed from the inserted nucleic acid will be of an antisense orientation to a target nucleic acid of interest described further in the following subsection .

The antisense nucleic acid molecules of the invention are typically administered to a subject e.g. systemically or locally by direct injection at a tissue site or generated in situ such that they hybridize with or bind to cellular mRNA and or genomic DNA encoding the SHIP to thereby inhibit expression of the SHIP gene. Alternatively antisense nucleic acid molecules can be modified to target selected cells such as megakaryocytes and or megakaryocyte progenitors and then administered systemically. For systemic administration antisense molecules can be modified such that they specifically bind to receptors or antigens such as CD9 CD41 CD61 actin or FVIIIRAg expressed on a selected cell surface e.g. by linking the antisense nucleic acid molecules to peptides or antibodies that bind to cell surface receptors or antigens. The antisense nucleic acid molecules can also be delivered to cells using the vectors described herein. To achieve sufficient intracellular concentrations of the antisense molecules vector constructs in which the antisense nucleic acid molecule is placed under the control of a strong pol II or pol III promoter can be used.

In yet another embodiment the antisense oligonucleotide of the invention is an alpha anomeric nucleic acid molecule. An alpha anomeric nucleic acid molecule forms specific double stranded hybrids with complementary RNA in which contrary to the usual beta units the strands run parallel to each other Gaultier et al. 15 6625 6641 1987 . The antisense nucleic acid molecule can also comprise a 2 o methylribonucleotide Inoue et al. 15 6131 6148 1987 or a chimeric RNA DNA analogue Inoue et al. 215 327 330 1987 .

SHIP expression can be inhibited by targeting nucleotide sequences complementary to the regulatory region of the SHIP gene to form triple helical structures that prevent expression of SHIP in target cells. See generally Helene C. Anticancer Drug Des. 6 569 84 1991 Helene C. 660 27 36 1992 and Maher Bioassays 14 807 15 1992 . The potential sequences that can be targeted for triple helix formation can be increased by creating a so called switchback nucleic acid molecule. Switchback molecules are synthesized in an alternating 5 3 3 5 manner such that they base pair with first one strand of a duplex and then the other eliminating the necessity for a sizeable stretch of either purines or pyrimidines to be present on one strand of a duplex.

Ribozymes are a type of RNA that can be engineered to enzymatically cleave and inactivate other RNA targets in a specific sequence dependent fashion. Ribozymes and methods for their delivery are well known in the art Hendry P. et al. 2004 Dec. 4 1 1 Grassi G. et al. 2004 Aug. 5 4 369 386 Bagheri S. et al. 2004 Aug. 4 5 489 506 Kashani Sabet M. 2004 Nov. 4 11 1749 1755 each of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. By cleaving the target RNA ribozymes inhibit translation thus preventing the expression of the target gene. Ribozymes can be chemically synthesized in the laboratory and structurally modified to increase their stability and catalytic activity using methods known in the art. Alternatively ribozyme genes can be introduced into cells through gene delivery mechanisms known in the art. A ribozyme having specificity for SHIP mRNA can include one or more sequences complementary to a nucleotide sequence within the SHIP mRNA and a sequence having a known catalytic sequence responsible for mRNA cleavage see U.S. Pat. No. 5 093 246 or Haselhoff and Gerlach 334 585 591 1988 . For example a derivative of a Tetrahymena L 19 IVS RNA can be constructed in which the nucleotide sequence of the active site is complementary to the nucleotide sequence to be cleaved in the mRNA encoded by a uORF of an extended overlapping 5 UTR AS mRNA species see e.g. Cech et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 987 071 and Cech et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 742 . Alternatively SHIP mRNA can be used to select a catalytic RNA having a specific ribonuclease activity from a pool of RNA molecules see e.g. Bartel D. and Szostak J. W. 261 1411 1418 1993 .

The nucleic acid targets of SHIP inhibitors that are polynucleotides referred to herein as polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors or nucleic acid SHIP inhibitors such as the antisense interfering RNA molecules and ribozymes described herein may be any portion of the SHIP gene or SHIP mRNA. In some embodiments the nucleic acid target is the SHIP enzymatic domain inositol 5 phosphatase or the amino terminal src homology domain SH2 . In other embodiments the nucleic acid target is a translation initiation site 3 untranslated region or 5 untranslated region

As indicated above the nucleotide sequences of mouse SHIP and human SHIP have been publicly available for several years GenBank Accession Numbers NM10566 and NM005541 respectively on the NCBI database . Pair wise alignment scoring of orthologues shows high levels of homology among SHIP sequences of humans mice and rats. Each sequence has the SHIP enzymatic domain inositol 5 phosphatase domain and the degree of nucleotide homology between human mouse and rat is over 85 . Furthermore mice and humans are believed to have the same five SHIP protein isoforms. In a preferred embodiment the polynucleotide SHIP inhibitor e.g. interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotide ribozyme targets an mRNA sequence shared by all known hematopoietic SHIP isoforms in humans. Such target sequence can be readily determined by those skilled in the art due to the extensive amount of sequence overlap between the isoforms.

The target SHIP sequence can be within any orthologue of SHIP such as sequences substantially identical to human mouse rat or bovine or a portion of any of the foregoing including but not limited to GenBank Accession Numbers NM005541 and NM001017915 human NM10566 mouse and U55192 rat .

Table 1 lists thirteen target sequences predicted to have good specificity and knockdown potential against the human SHIP cDNA sequence.

The term orthologue as used herein refers to a sequence which is substantially identical to a reference sequence. The term substantially identical is used herein to refer to a first amino acid or nucleotide sequence that contains a sufficient or minimum number of identical or equivalent e.g. with a similar side chain amino acid residues or nucleotides to a second amino acid or nucleotide sequence such that the first and second amino acid or nucleotide sequences have a common structural domain or common functional activity. For example amino acid or nucleotide sequences that contain a common structural domain having at least about 60 or 65 identity likely 75 identity more likely 85 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 or 99 identity are defined herein as substantially identical.

Calculations of homology or sequence identity between sequences the terms are used interchangeably herein are performed as follows.

To determine the percent identity of two amino acid sequences or of two nucleic acid sequences the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes e.g. gaps can be introduced in one or both of a first and a second amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal alignment and non homologous sequences can be disregarded for comparison purposes . In one embodiment the length of a reference sequence aligned for comparison purposes is at least 50 at least 60 at least 70 80 90 or 100 of the length of the reference sequence. The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid positions or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the corresponding position in the second sequence then the molecules are identical at that position as used herein amino acid or nucleic acid identity is equivalent to amino acid or nucleic acid homology . The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the sequences taking into account the number of gaps and the length of each gap which need to be introduced for optimal alignment of the two sequences.

The comparison of sequences and determination of percent identity between two sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. In one embodiment the percent identity between two amino acid sequences is determined using the Needleman and Wunsch 48 444 453 1970 algorithm which has been incorporated into the GAP program in the GCG software package available at the official Accelrys web site using either a Blossum 62 matrix or a PAM250 matrix and a gap weight of 16 14 12 10 8 6 or 4 and a length weight of 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. In yet another embodiment the percent identity between two nucleotide sequences is determined using the GAP program in the GCG software package available at the official Accelrys web site using a NWSgapdna.CMP matrix and a gap weight of 40 50 60 70 or 80 and a length weight of 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. One set of parameters and the one that can be used if the practitioner is uncertain about what parameters should be applied to determine if a molecule is within a sequence identity or homology limitation of the invention are a Blossum 62 scoring matrix with a gap penalty of 12 a gap extend penalty of 4 and a frameshift gap penalty of 5.

The percent identity between two amino acid or nucleotide sequences can be determined using the algorithm of E. Meyers and W. Miller 4 11 17 1989 which has been incorporated into the ALIGN program version 2.0 using a PAM120 weight residue table a gap length penalty of 12 and a gap penalty of 4.

The nucleic acid and protein sequences described herein can be used as a query sequence to perform a search against public databases to for example identify other orthologs e.g. family members or related sequences. Such searches can be performed using the NBLAST and XBLAST programs version 2.0 of Altschul et al. 215 403 10 1990 . BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with the NBLAST program score 100 word length 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to known SHIP nucleic acid sequences. BLAST protein searches can be performed with the BLAST program score 50 word length 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to known polypeptide products of the SHIP gene. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described in Altschul et al. 25 3389 3402 1997 . When utilizing BLAST and Gapped BLAST programs the default parameters of the respective programs e.g. XBLAST and NBLAST can be used see the National Center for Biotechnology Information web site of the National Institutes of Health .

Orthologs can also be identified using any other routine method known in the art such as screening a cDNA library e.g. a human cDNA library using a probe designed to identify sequences which are substantially identical to a reference sequence.

The SHIP inhibitors of the subject invention such as interfering RNA molecules antisense molecules and ribozymes can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions. Such compositions typically include the SHIP inhibitor and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier includes saline solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions. Formulations compositions are described in a number of sources that are well known and readily available to those skilled in the art. For example Martin E. W. Easton Pa. Mack Publishing Company 19ed. 1995 describes formulations which can be used in connection with the subject invention.

A pharmaceutical composition is formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral e.g. intravenous intradermal subcutaneous oral e.g. inhalation topical transdermal transmucosal and rectal administration. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal or subcutaneous application can include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerine propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions where water soluble or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration suitable carriers include physiological saline bacteriostatic water CREMOPHOR EL BASF Parsippany N.J. or phosphate buffered saline PBS . In all cases the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It should be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol ascorbic acid thimerosal and the like. Isotonic agents for example sugars polyalcohols such as mannitol sorbitol sodium chloride can also be included in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound e.g. a polynucleotide of the invention in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle which contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions suitable methods of preparation include vacuum drying and freeze drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. For the purpose of oral therapeutic administration the active compound can be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of tablets troches or capsules e.g. gelatin capsules. Oral compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash. Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents and or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets pills capsules troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients or compounds of a similar nature a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin an excipient such as starch or lactose a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid PRIMOGEL or corn starch a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide a sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin or a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring.

For administration by inhalation the SHIP inhibitors can be delivered in the form of an aerosol spray from a pressurized container or dispenser which contains a suitable propellant e.g. a gas such as carbon dioxide or a nebulizer. Such inhalation methods and inhalant formulations include those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 468 798.

Systemic administration of SHIP inhibitors can also be by transmucosal or transdermal means. For transmucosal or transdermal administration penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art and include for example for transmucosal administration detergents bile salts and fusidic acid derivatives. Transmucosal administration can be accomplished through the use of nasal sprays or suppositories. For transdermal administration the active compound e.g. polynucleotides of the invention are formulated into ointments salves gels or creams as generally known in the art.

The pharmaceutical compositions can also be prepared in the form of suppositories e.g. with conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter and other glycerides or retention enemas for rectal delivery.

The SHIP inhibitors can also be administered by transfection or infection using methods known in the art including but not limited to the methods described in McCaffrey et al. 418 6893 38 39 2002 hydrodynamic transfection Xia et al. 20 10 1006 10 2002 viral mediated delivery or Putnam 53 2 151 160 1996 erratum at 53 3 325 1996 .

SHIP inhibitors that are polynucleotides can also be administered by any method suitable for administration of nucleic acid agents such as a DNA vaccine. These methods include gene guns bio injectors and skin patches as well as needle free methods such as the micro particle DNA vaccine technology disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 194 389 and the mammalian transdermal needle free vaccination with powder form vaccine as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 168 587. Additionally intranasal delivery is possible as described in Hamajima et al. 88 2 205 10 1998 . Liposomes e.g. as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 472 375 and microencapsulation can also be used. Biodegradable targetable microparticle delivery systems can also be used e.g. as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 471 996 .

In one embodiment the polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors are prepared with carriers that will protect the polynucleotide against rapid elimination from or degradation in the body such as a controlled release formulation including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable biocompatible polymers can be used such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters and polylactic acid. Such formulations can be prepared using standard techniques. Liposomal suspensions including liposomes targeted to antigen presenting cells with monoclonal antibodies can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. Examples of such antigens presented by megakaryocytes and their progenitors include CD9 CD41 CD61 actin and FVIIIRAg. These can be prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 522 811. Strategies that inhibit members of the RNAse A family of enzymes or can otherwise protect polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors from these enzymes may be utilized. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 096 720 Love et al. describes oligonucleotides targeted to human raf mRNA which are entrapped in sterically stabilized liposomes. In one embodiment the oligonucleotide in Love et al. is a chimeric oligonucleotide containing a first region to enhance target affinity and a second region that is a substrate for RNase. siSHIELD RNAse inhibitor is designed to prevent degradation of siRNA by RNase MP BIOMEDICALS Irvine Calif. . A strategy for the compaction of short oligonucleotides into well defined condensates may also be used to deliver the polynucleotides of the subject invention Sarkar T. et al. 2005 33 1 143 151 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In particular suitable techniques for cellular administration of the polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors such as interfering RNA in vitro or in vivo are disclosed in the following articles 

Borkhardt A. 2002 2 167 8 Hannon G. J. 2002 418 244 51 McManus M. T. and Sharp P. A. 2002 3 737 47 Scherr M. et al. 2003 10 245 56 Shuey D. J. et al. 2002 7 1040 6 Gilmore I. R. et al. 2004 12 6 315 340 Dykxhoorn D. M. and Lieberman J. 2005 56 401 423.

Lewis D. L. et al. 2002 32 107 8 Paul C. P. et al. 2002 20 505 8 Song E. et al. 2003 9 347 51 Sorensen D. R. et al. 2003 327 761 6.

Abbas Terki T. et al. 2002 13 2197 201 Barton G. M. and Medzhitov R. 2002 99 14943 5 Devroe E. and Silver P. A. 2002 2 15 Lori F. et al. 2002 2 245 52 Matta H. et al. 2003 2 206 10 Qin X. F. et al. 2003 100 183 8 Scherr M. et al. 2003 2 251 7 Shen C. et al. 2003 539 111 4 Lee S. K. et al. 2005 106 3 818 826 epub Apr. 14 2005.

Song E. et al. describe antibody mediated in vivo delivery of siRNAs via cell surface receptors Song E. et al. 2005 23 6 709 717 epub May 22 2005 . This cell specific delivery technique can be used to target interfering RNA molecules to the cell surface receptors on megakaryocytes and megakaryocyte progenitors.

Other technologies that may be suitable for delivery of polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors such as interfering RNA to the target cells are based on nanoparticles or nanocapsules such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 649 192B and 5 843 509B. Recent technologies that may be employed for selecting delivering and monitoring interfering RNA molecules include Raab R. M. and Stephanopoulos G. 2004 88 121 132 Huppi K. et al. 2005 17 1 10 Spagnou S. et al. 2004 43 13348 13356 Muratovska A. and Eccles M. R. 2004 558 63 68 Kumar R. et al. 2003 13 2333 2340 Chen A. A. et al. 2005 33 e190 Dykxhoorn D. M. et al. 2006 epub ahead of print Rodriguez Lebron E. and Paulson H. L. 2005 epub ahead of print Pai S. I. et al. 2005 epub ahead of print Raoul C. et al. 2005 epub ahead of print Manfredsson F. P. et al. 2005 epub ahead of print Downward J. 2004 328 1245 1248.

A mixture of SHIP inhibitors of the same type or different types may be introduced into cells in vitro or in vivo. For example a mixture or pool of polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors such as interfering RNA molecules e.g. 2 4 interfering molecules or more can be introduced into cells Oleinikov A. V. et al. 2005 33 10 e92 . Preferably the interfering RNA molecules target different regions of the SHIP mRNA. Preferably the interfering RNA molecules have been previously validated as individually functioning to reduce SHIP expression. The individual interfering RNAs of the mixture can be chemically synthesized Elbashir S. M. et al. 2001 15 188 200 or introduced as short DNA templates containing RNA polymerase promoter which are transcribed within the cells in vitro or in vivo Yu J. Y. et al. 99 6047 6052 .

Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of compositions can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals e.g. for determining the LD50 the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED50 the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population . The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD50 ED50. Compositions which exhibit high therapeutic indices can be used. While compositions that exhibit toxic side effects can be used care should be taken to design a delivery system that targets such compounds to the site of affected tissue in order to minimize potential damage to uninfected cells and thereby reduce side effects.

Data obtained from cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such compositions generally lies within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50 with little or no toxicity. The dosage can vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. For any composition used in the method of the invention the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. A dose can be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that includes the IC i.e. the concentration of the test composition which achieves a half maximal inhibition of symptoms as determined in cell culture. Such information can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma can be measured for example by high performance liquid chromatography.

The SHIP inhibitor can be administered on any appropriate schedule e.g. from one or more times per day to one or more times per week including once every other day for any number of days or weeks e.g. 1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 5 days 6 days 1 week 10 days 2 weeks 3 weeks 4 weeks 5 weeks 6 weeks 7 weeks 8 weeks 2 months 3 months 6 months or more or any variation thereon. The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain factors may influence the dosage and timing required to effectively treat a subject including but not limited to the severity of the disease or disorder previous treatments the general health and or age of the subject and other diseases present. Moreover treatment of a subject with a therapeutically effective amount of a SHIP inhibitor can include a single treatment or can include a series of treatments.

The polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors e.g. interfering RNA antisense oligonucleotide or ribozyme can be introduced administered into cells such as mammalian cells in vitro or in vivo using known techniques as those described herein to suppress gene expression. Similarly genetic constructs e.g. transcription vectors containing DNA of the invention may be introduced into cells in vitro or in vivo using known techniques as described herein for transient or stable expression of RNA to suppress gene expression. When administered to the cells in vivo the polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors can be administered to a subject systemically e.g. intravenously for example or administered locally at the site of the cells such as the peripheral blood bone marrow or spleen .

The cells in which the polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors are introduced may be any cell such as a megakaryocyte or megakaryocyte progenitor containing SHIP mRNA. The cells can be primary cells cultured cells cells of cell lines etc. In one embodiment the cells are from bone marrow. In another embodiment the cells are from the spleen. In another embodiment the cells are from peripheral blood.

Mammalian species which benefit from the disclosed methods include but are not limited to primates such as humans apes chimpanzees orangutans monkeys domesticated animals e.g. pets such as dogs cats guinea pigs hamsters Vietnamese pot bellied pigs rabbits and ferrets domesticated farm animals such as cows buffalo bison horses donkey swine sheep and goats exotic animals typically found in zoos such as bear lions tigers panthers elephants hippopotamus rhinoceros giraffes antelopes sloth gazelles zebras wildebeests prairie dogs koala bears kangaroo opossums raccoons pandas hyena seals sea lions elephant seals otters porpoises dolphins and whales. As used herein the terms subject patient and individual are used interchangeably and intended to include such human and non human mammalian species. Likewise in vitro methods of the present invention can be carried out on cells of such mammalian species. Host cells comprising exogenous polynucleotides of the invention may be administered to the subject and may for example be autogenic use of one s own cells allogenic from one person to another or transgenic or xenogenic from one mammalian species to another mammalian species relative to the subject.

The polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors of the invention can be inserted into genetic constructs e.g. viral vectors retroviral vectors expression cassettes or plasmid viral vectors e.g. using methods known in the art including but not limited to those described in Xia et al. 2002 supra. Genetic constructs can be delivered to a subject by for example inhalation orally intravenous injection local administration see U.S. Pat. No. 5 328 470 or by stereotactic injection see e.g. Chen et al. 91 3054 3057 1994 . The pharmaceutical preparation of the delivery vector can include the vector in an acceptable diluent or can comprise a slow release matrix in which the delivery vehicle is imbedded. Alternatively where the complete delivery vector can be produced intact from recombinant cells e.g. retroviral vectors the pharmaceutical preparation can include one or more cells which produce the polynucleotide delivery system.

The polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors can be small hairpin RNAs shRNAs and expression constructs engineered to express shRNAs. Transcription of shRNAs is initiated at a polymerase III pol III promoter and is thought to be terminated at position 2 of a 4 5 thymine transcription termination site. Upon expression shRNAs are thought to fold into a stem loop structure with 3 UU overhangs subsequently the ends of these shRNAs are processed converting the shRNAs into siRNA like molecules of about 21 nucleotides Brummelkamp et al. 296 550 553 2002 Lee et al. 2002 supra Miyagishi and Taira 20 497 500 2002 Paddison et al. 2002 supra Paul 2002 supra Sui 2002 supra Yu et al. 2002 supra.

SiRNAs targeting SHIP mRNA may be fused to other nucleotide molecules or to polypeptides in order to direct their delivery or to accomplish other functions. Thus for example fusion proteins comprising a siRNA oligonucleotide that is capable of specifically interfering with expression of SHIP may comprise affinity tag polypeptide sequences which refers to polypeptides or peptides that facilitate detection and isolation of the polypeptide via a specific affinity interaction with a ligand. The ligand may be any molecule receptor counter receptor antibody or the like with which the affinity tag may interact through a specific binding interaction as provided herein. Such peptides include for example poly His or FLAG or the like e.g. the antigenic identification peptides described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 011 912 and in Hopp et al. 6 1204 1988 or the XPRESS epitope tag INVITROGEN Carlsbad Calif. . The affinity sequence may be a hexa histidine tag as supplied for example by a pBAD His INVITROGEN or a pQE 9 vector to provide for purification of the mature polypeptide fused to the marker in the case of a bacterial host or for example the affinity sequence may be a hemagglutinin HA tag when a mammalian host e.g. COS 7 cells is used. The HA tag corresponds to an antibody defined epitope derived from the influenza hemagglutinin protein Wilson et al. 1984 37 767 .

The present invention also relates to vectors and to constructs that include or encode polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors e.g. siRNA and in particular to recombinant nucleic acid constructs that include any nucleic acid such as a DNA polynucleotide segment that may be transcribed to yield SHIP specific siRNA polynucleotides according to the invention as provided above to host cells which are genetically engineered with vectors and or constructs of the invention and to the production of siRNA polynucleotides polypeptides and or fusion proteins of the invention or fragments or variants thereof by recombinant techniques. siRNA sequences disclosed herein as RNA polynucleotides may be engineered to produce corresponding DNA sequences using well established methodologies such as those described herein. Thus for example a DNA polynucleotide may be generated from any siRNA sequence described herein such that the present siRNA sequences will be recognized as also providing corresponding DNA polynucleotides and their complements . These DNA polynucleotides are therefore encompassed within the contemplated invention for example to be incorporated into the subject invention recombinant nucleic acid constructs from which siRNA may be transcribed.

According to the present invention a vector may comprise a recombinant nucleic acid construct containing one or more promoters for transcription of an RNA molecule for example the human U6 snRNA promoter see e.g. Miyagishi et al. 20 497 500 2002 Lee et al. 20 500 505 2002 Paul et al. 20 505 508 2002 Grabarek et al. 34 73544 2003 see also Sui et al. 99 5515 20 2002 . Each strand of a siRNA polynucleotide may be transcribed separately each under the direction of a separate promoter and then may hybridize within the cell to form the siRNA polynucleotide duplex. Each strand may also be transcribed from separate vectors see Lee et al. supra . Alternatively the sense and antisense sequences specific for a SHIP mRNA sequence may be transcribed under the control of a single promoter such that the siRNA polynucleotide forms a hairpin molecule Paul et al. supra . In such instance the complementary strands of the siRNA specific sequences are separated by a spacer that comprises at least four nucleotides but may comprise at least 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 14 16 or 18 or more nucleotides as described herein. In addition siRNAs transcribed under the control of a U6 promoter that form a hairpin may have a stretch of about four uridines at the 3 end that act as the transcription termination signal Miyagishi et al. supra Paul et al. supra . By way of illustration if the target sequence is 19 nucleotides the siRNA hairpin polynucleotide beginning at the 5 end has a 19 nucleotide sense sequence followed by a spacer which as two uridine nucleotides adjacent to the 3 end of the 19 nucleotide sense sequence and the spacer is linked to a 19 nucleotide antisense sequence followed by a 4 uridine terminator sequence which results in an overhang. siRNA polynucleotides with such overhangs effectively interfere with expression of the target polypeptide. A recombinant construct may also be prepared using another RNA polymerase III promoter the H1 RNA promoter that may be operatively linked to siRNA polynucleotide specific sequences which may be used for transcription of hairpin structures comprising the siRNA specific sequences or separate transcription of each strand of a siRNA duplex polynucleotide see e.g. Brummelkamp et al. 296 550 53 2002 Paddison et al. supra . DNA vectors useful for insertion of sequences for transcription of an siRNA polynucleotide include pSUPER vector see e.g. Brummelkamp et al. supra pAV vectors derived from pCWRSVN see e.g. Paul et al. supra and pIND see e.g. Lee et al. supra or the like.

Polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors can be expressed in mammalian cells yeast bacteria or other cells under the control of appropriate promoters providing ready systems for evaluation of siRNA polynucleotides that are capable of interfering with SHIP expression as provided herein. Appropriate cloning and expression vectors for use with prokaryotic and eukaryotic hosts are described for example by Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Third Edition Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 2001 .

The appropriate DNA sequence s may be inserted into the vector by a variety of procedures. In general the DNA sequence is inserted into an appropriate restriction endonuclease site s by procedures known in the art. Standard techniques for cloning DNA isolation amplification and purification for enzymatic reactions involving DNA ligase DNA polymerase restriction endonucleases and the like and various separation techniques are those known and commonly employed by those skilled in the art. A number of standard techniques are described for example in Ausubel et al. 1993 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Greene Publ. Assoc. Inc. John Wiley Sons Inc. Boston Mass. Sambrook et al. 2001 Molecular Cloning Third Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Plainview N.Y. Maniatis et al. 1982 Molecular Cloning Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Plainview N.Y. and elsewhere.

The DNA sequence in the expression vector is operatively linked to at least one appropriate expression control sequence e.g. a promoter or a regulated promoter to direct mRNA synthesis. Representative examples of such expression control sequences include LTR or SV40 promoter the lac or trp the phage lambda Ppromoter and other promoters known to control expression of genes in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or their viruses. Promoter regions can be selected from any desired gene using CAT chloramphenicol transferase vectors or other vectors with selectable markers. Examples of Eukaryotic promoters include CMV immediate early HSV thymidine kinase early and late SV40 LTRs from retrovirus and mouse metallothionein I. Selection of the appropriate vector and promoter is well within the level of ordinary skill in the art and preparation of certain particularly preferred recombinant expression constructs comprising at least one promoter or regulated promoter operably linked to a polynucleotide of the invention is described herein.

As noted above in certain embodiments the vector may be a viral vector such as a mammalian viral vector e.g. retrovirus adenovirus adeno associated virus lentivirus . For example retroviruses from which the retroviral plasmid vectors may be derived include but are not limited to Moloney Murine Leukemia Virus spleen necrosis virus retroviruses such as Rous Sarcoma Virus Harvey Sarcoma virus avian leukosis virus gibbon ape leukemia virus human immunodeficiency virus adenovirus Myeloproliferative Sarcoma Virus and mammary tumor virus.

The viral vector includes one or more promoters. Suitable promoters which may be employed include but are not limited to the retroviral LTR the SV40 promoter and the human cytomegalovirus CMV promoter described in Miller et al. 7 980 990 1989 or any other promoter e.g. cellular promoters such as eukaryotic cellular promoters including but not limited to the histone pol III and beta actin promoters . Other viral promoters that may be employed include but are not limited to adenovirus promoters adeno associated virus promoters thymidine kinase TK promoters and B19 parvovirus promoters. The selection of a suitable promoter will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the teachings contained herein and may be from among either regulated promoters e.g. tissue specific or inducible promoters or promoters as described above. . A tissue specific promoter allows preferential expression of the polynucleotide SHIP inhibitor in a given target tissue thereby avoiding expression in other tissues. For example to target genes specifically in the heart a number of cardiac specific regulatory elements can be used. An example of a cardiac specific promoter is the ventricular form of MLC 2v promoter see Zhu et al. 13 4432 4444 1993 Navankasattusas et al. 12 1469 1479 1992 or a variant thereof such as a 281 by fragment of the native MLC 2v promoter nucleotides 264 to 17 GenBank Accession No. U26708 . Examples of other cardiac specific promoters include alpha myosin heavy chain Minamino et al. 88 587 592 2001 and myosin light chain 2 Franz et al. 73 629 638 1993 . Endothelial cell gene promoters include endoglin and ICAM 2. See Velasco et al. 8 897 904 2001. Liver specific promoters include the human phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH gene promoters Bristeau et al. 274 283 291 2001 hB1F Zhang et al. 273 239 249 2001 and the human C reactive protein CRP gene promoter Ruther et al. 8 87 93 1993 . Promoters that are kidney specific include CLCN5 Tanaka et al. 58 281 292 1999 renin Sinn et al. 3 25 31 2000 androgen regulated protein sodium phosphate cotransporter renal cytochrome P 450 parathyroid hormone receptor and kidney specific cadherin. See 279 F383 392 2000. An example of a pancreas specific promoter is the pancreas duodenum homeobox 1 PDX 1 promoter Samara et al. 22 4702 4713 2002 . A number of brain specific promoters may be useful in the invention and include the thy 1 antigen and gamma enolase promoters Vibert et al. 181 33 39 1989 the glial specific glial fibrillary acidic protein GFAP gene promoter Cortez et al. 59 39 46 2000 and the human FGF1 gene promoter Chiu et al. 19 6229 6239 2000 . The GATA family of transcription factors have promoters directing neuronal and thymocyte specific expression see Asnagli et al. 168 4268 4271 2002 .

In another aspect the present invention relates to host cells containing the above described recombinant constructs. Host cells are genetically engineered modified transduced transformed or transfected with the vectors and or expression constructs of this invention that may be for example a cloning vector a shuttle vector or an expression construct. The vector or construct may be for example in the form of a plasmid a viral particle a phage etc. The engineered host cells can be cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as appropriate for activating promoters selecting transformants or amplifying particular genes such as genes encoding siRNA polynucleotides or fusion proteins thereof. The culture conditions for particular host cells selected for expression such as temperature pH and the like will be readily apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan.

The host cell can be a higher eukaryotic cell such as a mammalian cell or a lower eukaryotic cell such as a yeast cell or the host cell can be a prokaryotic cell such as a bacterial cell. Representative examples of appropriate host cells according to the present invention include but need not be limited to bacterial cells such as fungal cells such as yeast insect cells such as S2 and Sf9 animal cells such as CHO COS or 293 cells adenoviruses plant cells or any suitable cell already adapted to in vitro propagation or so established de novo.

Various mammalian cell culture systems can also be employed to produce polynucleotide SHIP inhibitors from recombinant nucleic acid constructs of the present invention. The invention is therefore directed in part to a method of producing a polynucleotide such as an siRNA by culturing a host cell comprising a recombinant nucleic acid construct that comprises at least one promoter operably linked to a polynucleotide SHIP inhibitor. In certain embodiments the promoter may be a regulated promoter as provided herein for example a tetracycline repressible promoter. In certain embodiments the recombinant expression construct is a recombinant viral expression construct as provided herein. Examples of mammalian expression systems include the COS 7 lines of monkey kidney fibroblasts described by Gluzman 23 175 1981 and other cell lines capable of expressing a compatible vector for example the C127 3T3 CHO HeLa HEK and BHK cell lines. Mammalian expression vectors will comprise an origin of replication a suitable promoter and enhancer and also any necessary ribosome binding sites polyadenylation site splice donor and acceptor sites transcriptional termination sequences and 5 flanking nontranscribed sequences for example as described herein regarding the preparation of recombinant polynucleotide constructs. DNA sequences derived from the SV40 splice and polyadenylation sites may be used to provide the required nontranscribed genetic elements. Introduction of the construct into the host cell can be effected by a variety of methods with which those skilled in the art will be familiar including but not limited to for example liposomes including cationic liposomes calcium phosphate transfection DEAE Dextran mediated transfection or electroporation Davis et al. 1986 Basic Methods in Molecular Biology or other suitable technique.

The expressed polynucleotides may be useful in intact host cells in intact organelles such as cell membranes intracellular vesicles or other cellular organelles or in disrupted cell preparations including but not limited to cell homogenates or lysates microsomes uni and multilamellar membrane vesicles or other preparations. Alternatively expressed polynucleotides can be recovered and purified from recombinant cell cultures by methods including ammonium sulfate or ethanol precipitation acid extraction anion or cation exchange chromatography phosphocellulose chromatography hydrophobic interaction chromatography affinity chromatography hydroxylapatite chromatography and lectin chromatography. Finally high performance liquid chromatography HPLC can be employed for final purification steps.

As used herein the terms administer introduce apply treat transplant implant deliver and grammatical variations thereof are used interchangeably to provide SHIP inhibitors to target cells in vitro e.g. ex vivo or in vivo or provide genetically modified engineered cells of the subject invention to a subject.

As used herein the term co administration and variations thereof refers to the administration of two or more agents simultaneously in one or more preparations or consecutively. For example one or more types of genetically modified cells of the invention can be co administered with other agents.

As used in this specification including the appended claims the singular a an and the include plural reference unless the contact dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to a polynucleotide includes more than one such polynucleotide. A reference to a nucleic acid sequence includes more than one such sequence. A reference to a cell includes more than one such cell.

As used herein the term or is inclusive of both i.e. and or . For example as used herein reference to megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors includes either or and i.e. and or . When the amount or concentration of megakaryocytes or megakaryocyte progenitors is to be determined the amount or concentration of either or both cell types is intended.

The terms comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of are defined according to their standard meaning. The terms may be substituted for one another throughout the instant application in order to attach the specific meaning associated with each term.

In general the target nucleic acid is DNA or RNA. However inventive methods may employ for example samples that contain DNA or DNA and RNA including messenger RNA wherein DNA or RNA may be single stranded or double stranded or a DNA RNA hybrid may be included in the sample. A mixture of nucleic acids may also be employed. The specific nucleic acid sequence to be detected may be a fraction of a larger molecule or can be present initially as a discrete molecule so that the specific sequence constitutes the entire nucleic acid. It is not necessary that the sequence to be studied be present initially in a pure form the nucleic acid may be a minor fraction of a complex mixture such as contained in whole human DNA. The nucleic acid containing sample used for determination of the sensitivity of the target cells to radiation therapy may be extracted by a variety of techniques such as that described by Sambrook et al. Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1989 incorporated in its entirety herein by reference .

Cells expressing the target nucleic acid isolated from a subject can be obtained in a biological specimen from the subject. The cells or nucleic acid can be isolated from tumor tissue blood plasma serum lymph lymph nodes spleen bone marrow or any other biological specimen containing the target nucleic acid. Tumor tissue blood plasma serum lymph spleen and bone marrow are obtained by various medical procedures known to those of skill in the art.

The inventive methods are useful for producing a clinical response to treatment of various human anemias bone marrow transplants or cell proliferative disorders. A cell proliferative disorder as described herein may be a neoplasm. Such neoplasms are either benign or malignant. The term neoplasm refers to a new abnormal growth of cells or a growth of abnormal cells that reproduce faster than normal. A neoplasm creates an unstructured mass a tumor which can be either benign or malignant. The term benign refers to a tumor that is noncancerous e.g. its cells do not invade surrounding tissues or metastasize to distant sites. The term malignant refers to a tumor that is metastatic invades contiguous tissue or no longer under normal cellular growth control.

As used herein a clinical response is the response of a subject to modulation of the gene of interest. Criteria for determining a response to therapy are widely accepted and enable comparisons of the efficacy alternative treatments see Slapak and Kufe Principles of Cancer Therapy in Harrisons s Principles of Internal Medicine 13edition eds. Isselbacher et al. McGraw Hill Inc. 1994 . A complete response or complete remission is the disappearance of all detectable malignant disease. A partial response is an approximately 50 percent decrease in the product of the greatest perpendicular diameters of one or more lesions. There can be no increase in size of any lesion or the appearance of new lesions. Progressive disease means at least an approximately 25 percent increase in the product of the greatest perpendicular diameter of one lesion or the appearance of new lesions. The response to treatment is evaluated after the subjects had completed therapy.

SHIP inhibitors also referred to herein as active compounds can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration. Such compositions typically comprise the SHIP inhibiting nucleic acid molecule protein or antibody and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the language pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is intended to include any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound use thereof in the compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.

A pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral e.g. intravenous intradermal subcutaneous oral e.g. inhalation transdermal topical transmucosal and rectal administration. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal or subcutaneous application can include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerine propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions where water soluble or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration suitable carriers include physiological saline bacteriostatic water Cremophor EL BASF Parsippany N.J. or phosphate buffered saline PBS . In all cases the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol ascorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars polyalcohols such as mannitol sorbitol sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle which contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. They can be enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral therapeutic administration the active compound can be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of tablets troches or capsules. Oral compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash wherein the compound in the fluid carrier is applied orally and swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents and or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets pills capsules troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients or compounds of a similar nature a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin an excipient such as starch or lactose a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid Primogel or corn starch a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide a sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin or a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring. For administration by inhalation the compounds are delivered in the form of an aerosol spray from pressured container or dispenser which contains a suitable propellant e.g. a gas such as carbon dioxide or a nebulizer.

Systemic administration can also be by transmucosal or transdermal means. For transmucosal or transdermal administration penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art and include for example for transmucosal administration detergents bile salts and fusidic acid derivatives. Transmucosal administration can be accomplished through the use of nasal sprays or suppositories. For transdermal administration the active compounds are formulated into ointments salves gels or creams as generally known in the art.

The compounds can also be prepared in the form of suppositories e.g. with conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter and other glycerides or retention enemas for rectal delivery.

In one embodiment the active compounds are prepared with carriers that will protect the compound against rapid elimination from the body such as a controlled release formulation including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable biocompatible polymers can be used such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained commercially from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals Inc. Liposomal suspensions including liposomes targeted to target cells with monoclonal antibodies can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These can be prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 522 811.

It is especially advantageous to formulate oral or parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subject to be treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved and the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of individuals.

The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container pack or dispenser together with instructions for administration.

Screening Assays. The invention provides a method also referred to herein as a screening assay for identifying SHIP inhibitors i.e. candidate or test compounds or agents e.g. peptides peptidomimetics small molecules or other drugs that bind to the SHIP protein or have a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on for example the SHIP gene expression or SHIP gene activity. Such identified compounds may be useful for the modulation of drug resistance. In one embodiment the invention provides assays for screening candidate or test compounds which bind to or modulate the activity of the target gene protein or polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof. The test compounds of the present invention can be obtained using any of the numerous approaches in combinatorial library methods known in the art including biological libraries natural products libraries spatially addressable parallel solid phase or solution phase libraries synthetic library methods requiring deconvolution the one bead one compound library method and synthetic library methods using affinity chromatography selection. The biological library approach is limited to peptide libraries while the other approaches are applicable to peptide non peptide oligomer or small molecule libraries of compounds Lam 1997 Anticancer Drug Des. 12 145 .

Examples of methods for the synthesis of molecular libraries can be found in the art for example in DeWitt et al. 1993 90 6909 Erb et al. 1994 91 11422 Zuckermann et al. 1994 37 2678 Cho et al. 1993 261 1303 Carrell et al. 1994 33 2059 Carell et al. 1994 33 2061 and Gallop et al. 1994 37 1233.

Libraries of compounds may be presented in solution e.g. Houghten 1992 13 412 421 or on beads Lam 1991 354 82 84 chips Fodor 1993 364 555 556 bacteria U.S. Pat. No. 5 223 409 spores U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 571 698 5 403 484 and 5 223 409 plasmids Cull et al. 1992 89 1865 1869 or on phage Scott and Smith 1990 249 386 390 Devlin 1990 249 404 406 Cwirla et al. 1990 87 6378 6382 and Felici 1991 222 301 310 .

In one embodiment an assay is a cell based assay in which a cell which expresses the target gene protein or a biologically active portion thereof is contacted with a test compound and the ability of the test compound to bind to the target gene protein determined. The cell for example can be a yeast cell or a cell of mammalian origin. Determining the ability of the test compound to bind to the target gene protein can be accomplished for example by coupling the test compound with a radioisotope or enzymatic label such that binding of the test compound to the target gene protein or biologically active portion thereof can be determined by detecting the labeled compound in a complex. For example test compounds can be labeled with I C C or H either directly or indirectly and the radioisotope detected by direct counting of radioemmission or by scintillation counting. Alternatively test compounds can be enzymatically labeled with for example horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase or luciferase and the enzymatic label detected by determination of conversion of an appropriate substrate to product. In a preferred embodiment the assay comprises contacting a cell which expresses the target gene protein or a biologically active portion thereof with a known compound which binds the target gene to form an assay mixture contacting the assay mixture with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to interact with the target gene protein wherein determining the ability of the test compound to interact with the target gene protein comprises determining the ability of the test compound to preferentially bind to the target gene or a biologically active portion thereof as compared to the known compound.

In another embodiment an assay is a cell based assay comprising contacting a cell expressing the target gene protein or a biologically active portion thereof with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to modulate e.g. stimulate or inhibit the activity of the target gene protein or biologically active portion thereof. Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate the activity of the target gene or a biologically active portion thereof can be accomplished for example by determining the ability of the target gene protein to bind to or interact with the target gene target molecule. As used herein a target molecule is a molecule with which the target gene protein binds or interacts in nature for example a molecule in the nucleus or cytoplasm of a cell which expresses the target gene protein. The target gene target molecule can be a non target gene molecule or the target gene protein or polypeptide. The target for example can be a second intracellular protein which has catalytic activity a protein which naturally binds to the target gene or a protein which facilitates the association of DNA with the target gene.

Determining the ability of the target gene protein to bind to or interact with the target gene target molecule can be accomplished by one of the methods described above for determining direct binding. In a preferred embodiment determining the ability of the target gene protein to bind to or interact with the target gene target molecule can be accomplished by determining the activity of the target molecule or detecting a cellular response for example cell survival or cell proliferation in the presence of a chemotherapeutic drug.

In yet another embodiment an assay of the present invention is a cell free assay comprising contacting the target gene protein or biologically active portion thereof with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to bind to the target gene protein or biologically active portion thereof. Binding of the test compound to the target gene protein can be determined either directly or indirectly as described above. In a preferred embodiment the assay includes contacting the target gene protein or biologically active portion thereof with a known compound which binds the target gene to form an assay mixture contacting the assay mixture with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to interact with the target gene protein wherein determining the ability of the test compound to interact with the target gene protein comprises determining the ability of the test compound to preferentially bind to the target gene or biologically active portion thereof as compared to the known compound.

In another embodiment an assay is a cell free assay comprising contacting the target gene protein or biologically active portion thereof with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to modulate e.g. stimulate or inhibit the activity of the target gene protein or biologically active portion thereof. Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate the activity of the target gene can be accomplished for example by determining the ability of the target gene protein to bind to the target gene target molecule by one of the methods described above for determining direct binding. In an alternative embodiment determining the ability of the test compound to modulate the activity of the target gene can be accomplished by determining the ability of the target gene protein further modulate the target gene target molecule. For example the catalytic enzymatic activity of the target molecule on an appropriate substrate can be determined as previously described.

In yet another embodiment the cell free assay comprises contacting the target gene protein or biologically active portion thereof with a known compound which binds the target gene to form an assay mixture contacting the assay mixture with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to interact with the target gene protein wherein determining the ability of the test compound to interact with the target gene protein comprises determining the ability of the target gene protein to preferentially bind to or modulate the activity of the target gene target molecule.

The cell free assays of the present invention are amenable to use of both native and variant forms e.g. peptide fragments and fusion proteins of the target gene. In the case of cell free assays comprising a hydrophobic form of the target gene it may be desirable to utilize a solubilizing agent such that the hydrophobic form of the target gene is maintained in solution. Examples of such solubilizing agents include non ionic detergents such as n octylglucoside n dodecylglucoside n dodecylmaltoside octanoyl N methylglucamide decanoyl N methylglucamide Triton X 100 Triton X 114 Thesit Isotridecypoly ethyl ene glycol ether n 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethylamminio 1 propane sulfonate CHAPS 3 3 cholamidopropyl dimethylamminio 2 hydroxy 1 propane sulfonate CHAPSO or N dodecyl N N dimethyl 3 ammonio 1 propane sulfonate.

In more than one embodiment of the above assay methods of the present invention it may be desirable to immobilize either the target gene or its target molecule to facilitate separation of complexed from uncomplexed forms of one or both of the proteins as well as to accommodate automation of the assay. Binding of a test compound to the target gene or interaction of the target gene with a target molecule in the presence and absence of a candidate compound can be accomplished in any vessel suitable for containing the reactants. Examples of such vessels include microtitre plates test tubes and micro centrifuge tubes. In one embodiment a fusion protein can be provided which adds a domain that allows one or both of the proteins to be bound to a matrix. For example glutathione 5 transferase target gene fusion proteins or glutathione 5 transferase target fusion proteins can be adsorbed onto glutathione sepharose beads Sigma Chemical St. Louis Mo. or glutathione derivatized microtitre plates which are then combined with the test compound or the test compound and either the non adsorbed target protein or the target gene protein and the mixture incubated under conditions conducive to complex formation e.g. at physiological conditions for salt and pH . Following incubation the beads or microtitre plate wells are washed to remove any unbound components the matrix immobilized in the case of beads complex determined either directly or indirectly for example as described above. Alternatively the complexes can be dissociated from the matrix and the level of the target gene binding or activity determined using standard techniques.

Other techniques for immobilizing proteins on matrices can also be used in the screening assays of the invention. For example either the target gene or its target molecule can be immobilized utilizing conjugation of biotin and streptavidin. Biotinylated target gene or target molecules can be prepared from biotin NHS N hydroxy succinimide using techniques well known in the art e.g. biotinylation kit Pierce Chemicals Rockford Ill. and immobilized in the wells of streptavidin coated 96 well plates Pierce Chemical . Alternatively antibodies reactive with the target gene or target molecules but which do not interfere with binding of the target gene protein to its target molecule can be derivatized to the wells of the plate and unbound target or the target gene trapped in the wells by antibody conjugation. Methods for detecting such complexes in addition to those described above for the GST immobilized complexes include immunodetection of complexes using antibodies reactive with the target gene or target molecule as well as enzyme linked assays which rely on detecting an enzymatic activity associated with the target gene or target molecule.

In another embodiment modulators of the target gene expression are identified in a method in which a cell is contacted with a candidate compound and the expression of the target gene mRNA or protein or the copy number of the target gene in the cell is determined. The level of expression of the target gene in the presence of the candidate compound is compared to the level of expression of the target gene in the absence of the candidate compound. The candidate compound can then be identified as a modulator of the target gene expression based on this comparison. For example when expression of the target gene mRNA or protein is greater statistically significantly greater in the presence of the candidate compound than in its absence the candidate compound is identified as a stimulator of the target gene mRNA or protein expression. Alternatively when expression of the target gene mRNA or protein is less statistically significantly less in the presence of the candidate compound than in its absence the candidate compound is identified as an inhibitor of the target gene mRNA or protein expression. The level of the target gene mRNA or protein expression in the cells or the number of the target gene copies per cell can be determined by methods described herein for detecting the target gene genomic DNA mRNA or protein.

Target gene proteins can be used as bait proteins in a two hybrid assay or three hybrid assay see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 283 317 Zervos et al. 1993 72 223 232 Madura et al. 1993 268 12046 12054 Bartel et al. 1993 14 920 924 Iwabuchi et al. 1993 8 1693 1696 and WO94 10300 to identify other proteins which bind to or interact with the target gene target gene binding proteins or target gene bp and modulate the target gene activity.

The two hybrid system is based on the modular nature of most transcription factors which consist of separable DNA binding and activation domains. Briefly the assay utilizes two different DNA constructs. In one construct the gene that codes for the target gene is fused to a gene encoding the DNA binding domain of a known transcription factor e.g. GAL 4 . In the other construct a DNA sequence from a library of DNA sequences that encodes an unidentified protein prey or sample is fused to a gene that codes for the activation domain of the known transcription factor. If the bait and the prey proteins are able to interact in vivo forming the target gene dependent complex the DNA binding and activation domains of the transcription factor are brought into close proximity. This proximity allows transcription of a reporter gene e.g. LacZ which is operably linked to a transcriptional regulatory site responsive to the transcription factor. Expression of the reporter gene can be detected and cell colonies containing the functional transcription factor can be isolated and used to obtain the cloned gene which encodes the protein which interacts with the target gene.

This invention further pertains to novel agents identified by the above described screening assays and uses thereof for treatments as described herein.

Predictive Medicine. The present invention also pertains to the field of predictive medicine in which diagnostic assays prognostic assays pharmacogenomics and monitoring clinical trials are used for prognostic predictive purposes to thereby treat an individual prophylactically. Accordingly one aspect of the present invention relates to diagnostic assays for determining the target gene protein and or nucleic acid expression as well as the target gene activity in the context of a biological sample e.g. blood serum cells tissue to thereby determine whether an individual is afflicted with a disease or disorder or is at risk of developing a disorder associated with aberrant target gene expression or activity e.g. altered drug resistance . The invention also provides for prognostic or predictive assays for determining whether an individual is at risk of developing a disorder associated with the target gene protein nucleic acid expression or activity e.g. altered drug resistance . For example mutations in the target gene can be assayed in a biological sample. Such assays can be used for prognostic or predictive purpose to thereby prophylactically treat an individual prior to the onset of a disorder characterized by or associated with the target gene protein nucleic acid expression or activity. For example because megakaryocyte production is inhibited where the target gene is expressed at a higher level in cells than normal expression of the target gene can be used as an indicator of diminished megakaryocyte production.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods for determining the target gene protein nucleic acid expression or the target gene activity in an individual to thereby select appropriate therapeutic or prophylactic agents for that individual referred to herein as pharmacogenomics . Pharmacogenomics allows for the selection of agents e.g. drugs for therapeutic or prophylactic treatment of an individual based on the genotype of the individual e.g. the genotype of the individual examined to determine the ability of the individual to respond to a particular agent .

Diagnostic Assays. The invention provides a method of assessing expression especially undesirable expression of a cellular target gene. Undesirable e.g. excessive expression may indicate the presence persistence or reappearance of reduced megakaryocyte production in an individual s tissue e.g. spleen or bone marrow . More generally aberrant expression may indicate the occurrence of a deleterious or disease associated phenotype contributed to by the target gene.

An exemplary method for detecting the presence or absence of the target gene in a biological sample involves obtaining a biological sample preferably from a body site implicated in a possible diagnosis of diseased or malignant tissue from a test subject and contacting the biological sample with a compound or an agent capable of detecting the target gene protein or nucleic acid e.g. mRNA genomic DNA that encodes the target gene protein such that the presence of the target gene is detected in the biological sample. The presence and or relative abundance of the target gene indicates aberrant or undesirable expression of a cellular the target gene and correlates with the occurrence in situ of reduced megakaryocytes in the periphery.

A preferred agent for detecting the target gene mRNA or genomic DNA is a labeled nucleic acid probe capable of hybridizing to the target gene mRNA or genomic DNA. The nucleic acid probe can be for example a full length the target gene nucleic acid or a portion thereof such as an oligonucleotide of at least 15 30 50 100 250 or 500 nucleotides in length and sufficient to specifically hybridize under stringent conditions to the target gene mRNA or genomic DNA. Other suitable probes for use in the diagnostic assays of the invention are described herein.

A preferred agent for detecting the target gene protein is an antibody capable of binding to the target gene protein preferably an antibody with a detectable label. Antibodies can be polyclonal or more preferably monoclonal. An intact antibody or a fragment thereof. e.g. Fab or F ab can be used. The term labeled with regard to the probe or antibody is intended to encompass direct labeling of the probe or antibody by coupling i.e. physically linking a detectable substance to the probe or antibody as well as indirect labeling of the probe or antibody by reactivity with another reagent that is directly labeled. Examples of indirect labeling include detection of a primary antibody using a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody and end labeling of a DNA probe with biotin such that it can be detected with fluorescently labeled streptavidin. The term biological sample is intended to include tissues cells and biological fluids isolated from a subject as well as tissues cells and fluids present within a subject. That is the detection method of the invention can be used to detect the target gene mRNA protein or genomic DNA in a biological sample in vitro as well as in vivo. For example in vitro techniques for detection of the target gene mRNA include Northern hybridizations and in situ hybridizations. In vitro techniques for detection of the target gene protein include enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISAs Western blots immunoprecipitations and immunofluorescence. In vitro techniques for detection of the target gene genomic DNA include Southern hybridizations.

In one embodiment the biological sample contains protein molecules from the test subject. Alternatively the biological sample can contain mRNA molecules from the test subject or genomic DNA molecules from the test subject. A preferred biological sample is a peripheral blood leukocyte sample isolated by conventional means from a subject.

In another embodiment the methods further involve obtaining a control biological sample from a control subject contacting the control sample with a compound or agent capable of detecting the target gene protein mRNA or genomic DNA such that the presence of the target gene protein mRNA or genomic DNA is detected in the biological sample and comparing the presence of the target gene protein mRNA or genomic DNA in the control sample with the presence of the target gene protein mRNA or genomic DNA in the test sample.

The invention also encompasses kits for detecting the presence of the target gene in a biological sample a test sample . Such kits can be used to determine if a subject is suffering from or is at increased risk of developing a disorder associated with aberrant expression of the target gene e.g. the presence of a drug resistance cancer . For example the kit can comprise a labeled compound or agent capable of detecting the target gene protein or mRNA in a biological sample and means for determining the amount of the target gene in the sample e.g. an anti target gene antibody or an oligonucleotide probe which binds to DNA encoding the target gene . Kits may also include instruction for observing that the tested subject is suffering from or is at risk of developing a disorder associated with aberrant expression of the target gene if the amount of the target gene protein or mRNA is above or below a normal level.

For antibody based kits the kit may comprise for example 1 a first antibody e.g. attached to a solid support which binds to the target gene protein and optionally 2 a second different antibody which binds to the target gene protein or the first antibody and is conjugated to a detectable agent.

For oligonucleotide based kits the kit may comprise for example 1 a oligonucleotide e.g. a detectably labelled oligonucleotide which hybridizes to the target gene nucleic acid sequence or 2 a pair of primers useful for amplifying the target gene nucleic acid molecule 

The kit may also comprise e.g. a buffering agent a preservative or a protein stabilizing agent. The kit may also comprise components necessary for detecting the detectable agent e.g. an enzyme or a substrate . The kit may also contain a control sample or a series of control samples which can be assayed and compared to the test sample contained. Each component of the kit is usually enclosed within an individual container and all of the various containers are within a single package along with instructions for observing whether the tested subject is suffering from or is at risk of developing a disorder associated with aberrant expression of the target gene.

Pharmacogenomics. Agents or modulators which have a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on the target gene activity e.g. SHIP as identified by a screening assay can be administered to individuals to treat prophylactically or therapeutically disorders e.g. anemias associated with aberrant target gene activity. In conjunction with such treatment the pharmacogenomics i.e. the study of the relationship between an individual s genotype and that individual s response to a foreign compound or drug of the individual may be considered. Differences in metabolism of therapeutics can lead to severe toxicity or therapeutic failure by altering the relation between dose and blood concentration of the pharmacologically active drug. Thus the pharmacogenomics of the individual permits the selection of effective agents e.g. drugs for prophylactic or therapeutic treatments based on a consideration of the individual s genotype. Such pharmacogenomics can further be used to determine appropriate dosages and therapeutic regimens. Accordingly the activity of the target gene protein expression of the target gene nucleic acid or mutation content of the target genes in an individual can be determined to thereby select appropriate agent s for therapeutic or prophylactic treatment of the individual.

Pharmacogenomics deals with clinically significant hereditary variations in the response to drugs due to altered drug disposition and abnormal action in affected persons. See e.g. Linder 1997 43 2 254 266. In general two types of pharmacogenetic conditions can be differentiated. Genetic conditions transmitted as a single factor altering the way drugs act on the body altered drug action or genetic conditions transmitted as single factors altering the way the body acts on drugs altered drug metabolism . These pharmacogenetic conditions can occur either as rare defects or as polymorphisms. For example glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency G6PD is a common inherited enzymopathy in which the main clinical complication is haemolysis after ingestion of oxidant drugs anti malarials sulfonamides analgesics nitrofurans and consumption of fava beans.

Thus the activity of the target gene product SHIP expression of the target gene nucleic acid or mutation content of the target genes in an individual can be determined to thereby select appropriate agent s for therapeutic or prophylactic treatment of the individual. In addition pharmacogenetic studies can be used to apply genotyping of polymorphic alleles encoding drug metabolizing enzymes to the identification of an individual s drug responsiveness phenotype. This knowledge when applied to dosing or drug selection can avoid adverse reactions or therapeutic failure and thus enhance therapeutic or prophylactic efficiency when treating a subject with the target gene modulator such as a modulator identified by one of the exemplary screening assays described herein.

Monitoring of Effects During Clinical Trials. Monitoring the influence of agents e.g. drugs compounds on the expression or activity of the target gene e.g. the ability to modulate the SHIP phenotype of a cell can be applied not only in basic drug screening but also in clinical trials. For example the effectiveness of an agent determined by a screening assay to decrease the target gene expression protein levels or downregulate the target gene activity can be monitored in clinical trails of subjects exhibiting increased target gene expression protein levels or upregulated target gene activity.

Alternatively the effectiveness of an agent determined by a screening assay to increase the target gene expression protein levels or upregulate target gene activity e.g. to decrease megakaryocyte production can be monitored in clinical trials of compounds designed to increase the target gene expression protein levels or upregulate target gene activity. In such clinical trials the expression or activity of the target gene and preferably other genes that have been implicated in for example a cellular proliferation disorder can be used as a read out or markers of the drug resistance of a particular cell.

For example and not by way of limitation genes including the target gene that are modulated in cells by treatment with an agent e.g. compound drug or small molecule which modulates the target gene activity e.g. identified in a screening assay can be identified. Thus to study the effect of agents on cellular proliferation disorders for example in a clinical trial cells can be isolated and RNA prepared and analyzed for the levels of expression of the target gene and other genes implicated in the disorder. The levels of gene expression i.e. a gene expression pattern can be quantified by Northern blot analysis or RT PCR or as is otherwise known in the art or alternatively by measuring the amount of protein produced by one of the methods as described herein or by measuring the levels of activity of the target gene or other genes. In this way the gene expression pattern can serve as a marker indicative of the physiological response of the cells to the agent. Accordingly this response state may be determined before and at various points during treatment of the individual with the agent.

In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides a method for monitoring the effectiveness of treatment of a subject with an agent e.g. an agonist antagonist peptidomimetic protein peptide nucleic acid small molecule or other drug candidate identified by the screening assays described herein comprising the steps of i obtaining a pre administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the agent ii detecting the level of expression of the target gene protein mRNA or genomic DNA in the preadministration sample iii obtaining one or more post administration samples from the subject iv detecting the level of expression or activity of the target gene protein mRNA or genomic DNA in the post administration samples v comparing the level of expression or activity of the target gene protein mRNA or genomic DNA in the pre administration sample with the target gene protein mRNA or genomic DNA in the post administration sample or samples and vi altering the administration of the agent to the subject accordingly. For example increased administration of the agent may be desirable to decrease the expression or activity of the target gene to lower levels than detected i.e. to increase the effectiveness of the agent.

Methods of Treatment. The present invention provides for both prophylactic and therapeutic methods of treating a subject at risk of or susceptible to a disorder or having a disorder associated with aberrant target gene expression or activity. Alternatively the target gene expression or activity may be normal non aberrant but a decrease in target gene expression or activity would nonetheless have a beneficial effect on the subject. Such disorders include various human anemias and those in need of bone marrow transplants.

Prophylactic Methods. In one aspect the invention provides a method for preventing in a subject a disease or condition associated with an aberrant target gene expression or activity e.g. the development of drug resistance by administering to the subject an agent which modulates the target gene expression. Subjects at risk for a condition which is caused or contributed to by aberrant target gene expression or activity can be identified by for example any or a combination of diagnostic or prognostic assays as is known in the art. Administration of a prophylactic agent can occur prior to the manifestation of symptoms characteristic of target gene aberrancy such that a disease or disorder is prevented or alternatively delayed in its progression. For example administration of a prophylactic agent to a patient in need of a bone marrow transplant may prevent or delay the development of platelet production dropping below a critical threshold. Depending on the type of the target gene aberrancy for example the target gene agonist or the target gene antagonist agent can be used for treating the subject. The appropriate agent can be determined based on screening assays described herein.

Therapeutic Methods. Another aspect of the invention pertains to methods of modulating the target gene expression or activity for therapeutic purposes. For example the effectiveness of a bone marrow transplant is potentiated enhanced by increasing megakaryocyte production. The modulation of expression of the target gene disclosed in the method of the invention involves contacting a cell with an agent that modulates one or more of the activities of the target gene protein activity associated with the cell. An agent that modulates the target gene protein activity can be an agent as described herein such as a nucleic acid or a protein a naturally occurring cognate ligand of the target gene protein a peptide the target gene peptidomimetic or other small molecule. In one embodiment the agent stimulates one or more of the biological activities of the target gene protein. Examples of such stimulatory agents include active the target gene protein and a nucleic acid molecule encoding the target gene that has been introduced into the cell. In another embodiment the agent inhibits one or more of the biological activities of the target gene protein. Examples of such inhibitory agents include antisense target gene nucleic acid molecules and anti target gene antibodies. These modulatory methods can be performed in vitro e.g. by culturing the cell with the agent or alternatively in vivo e.g. by administering the agent to a subject . As such the present invention provides methods of treating an individual afflicted with a disease or disorder characterized by aberrant expression or activity of the target gene protein or nucleic acid molecule. In one embodiment the method involves administering an agent or combination of agents that modulates e.g. upregulates or downregulates the target gene expression or activity. In another embodiment the method involves administering the target gene protein or nucleic acid molecule as therapy to compensate for reduced or aberrant target gene expression or activity.

For example in one embodiment the method involves administering a desired drug to an individual with a cell population expressing relatively high target gene levels and coadministering an inhibitor of the target gene expression or activity. The administration and coadministration steps can be carried out concurrently or in any order and can be separated by a time interval sufficient to allow uptake of either compound by the cells to be eradicated. For example an antisense pharmaceutical composition or a cocktail composition comprising an the target gene antisense oligonucleotide in combination with one or more other antisense oligonucleotides can be administered to the individual sufficiently in advance of administration of the drug to allow the antisense composition to permeate the individual s tissues especially tissue comprising the transformed cells to be eradicated to be internalized by transformed cells and to disrupt the target gene expression and or protein production.

Inhibition of the target gene activity is desirable in situations in which the target gene is abnormally upregulated and or in which decreased target gene activity is likely to have a beneficial effect e.g. increasing megakaryocyte production in the tissue of patient. Conversely stimulation of the target gene activity is desirable in situations in which the target gene is abnormally downregulated and or in which increased the target gene activity is likely to have a beneficial effect e.g. in decreasing megakaryocyte and megakaryocyte progenitor production.

Mice strains. SHIP mice F9 or F10 X C57BL6 J produced in the inventors laboratory have a deletion of the SHIP promoter and first exon Wang J. W. et al. 2002 295 2094 2097 . A second SHIP deficient mouse model SHIP 129SvJ Karlsson M. C. et al. 2003 198 333 340 in which the inositol phosphatase domain is deleted was also analyzed kindly provided by Dr. Jeffrey Ravetch Rockefeller University NY USA . All studies described herein were conducted on six to eight week old adult mice. Experiments were performed in compliance with institutional guidelines of the University of South Florida.

Cell isolation. Isolation of BM cells and splenocytes was as described Wang J. W. et al. 2002 295 2094 2097 . Following red blood cell RBC lysis the cells were re suspended in staining medium Wang J. W. et al. 2002 295 2094 2097 . PB was obtained from the retro orbital sinus. For MKP analysis of PB RBC were lysed in 1 RBC lysis buffer EBIOSCIENCE San Diego Calif. twice. Cells were then re suspended for antibody staining.

Flow cytometry analysis and antibodies. Staining of MKP and MK was performed as per Hodohara et al. Hodohara K. et al. 2000 95 769 775 . All antibodies were from BD PHARMINGEN San Diego Calif. except when mentioned otherwise. The cells were treated with anti CD16 CD32 2.4G2 to block Fc receptors and then stained with a lineage panel PE CD41 FITC MWReg30 and cKit APC 2B8 . The Lineage panel was CD3c 17A2 CD4 GK1.5 CD8a 53 6.7 B220 RA3 6B2 Gr 1 RB6 8C5 Mac 1 M1 70 CALTAG Burlingame Calif. and Ter119 TER 119 . Dead cells were excluded using 7 AAD BD PHARMINGEN San Diego Calif. . Analysis was done on a FACS Calibur and display of FACS data was performed using FlowJo 4.5.

Platelet analysis. Platelets were quantified using the CeliDyn 3700 hematology analyzer ABBOTT DIAGNOSTIC Dallas Tex. USA .

It should be understood that the examples and embodiments described herein are for illustrative purposes only and that various modifications or changes in light thereof will be suggested to persons skilled in the art and are to be included within the spirit and purview of this application.

BM spleen and PB from SHIP SHIP and WT mice were analyzed by flow cytometry to determine the size of the megakaryocyte progenitor MKP and megakaryocyte MK compartment in vivo using an immunophenotype defined by Hodohara and colleagues Hodohara K. et al. 2000 95 769 775 LincKitCD41 which contains the majority of CFU Mk activity. In BM an expansion of the MKP compartment in SHIP and SHIPmice was observed . SHIP and SHIPspleens also show higher percentages of MKP compared to WT littermates data not shown . Thus SHIP and SHIPBM show a mean 18.1 fold and 50 fold increase respectively in the absolute number of MKP relative to WT controls . PB contained very few MKP 3 to 5 MKP l and their numbers were not significantly increased in SHIP mice when compared to WT. However MKP numbers were slightly but significantly higher in SHIPPB as compared to WT littermates .

Assessing the MK compartment it was observed that SHIP and SHIPBM contains significantly less MK compared to WT controls . However in the spleen there was a greater number of MK in SHIP and SHIPmice compared to their respective WT littermates . In SHIP spleen there is a mean 10.9 fold increase in the absolute number of MK . Furthermore in the PB of SHIP mice there is a mean 7.7 fold increase in the absolute number of MK and the same trend was observed for SHIPmice .

The increase in MK numbers found by flow cytometry in the SHIP deficient spleens was corroborated by morphology where the spleen of SHIP deficient mice contained an increased number of MK . Furthermore the BM histopathology revealed that MK in SHIP BM have a hypolobulated micromegakaryocytic morphology when compared to WT BM which contains mature hyperlobulated MK .

Despite the profound expansion of the MKP and the MK compartment in SHIP and SHIPmice they do not exhibit increased platelet levels relative to WT controls when measured by hematolyzer or flow cytometry. Platelet levels limit megakaryocytopoiesis by sequestering TPO Kaushansky K. 1998 339 746 754 . Since platelet levels are not significantly increased in SHIP deficient mice it is possible that SHIP deficiency increases the sensitivity of MK and MKP to steady state TPO levels. Thus proliferation and or survival of MKP and MK is increased in SHIP mutant mice leading to an expansion of the megakaryocytic compartment. Consistent with the present inventors hypothesis TPO stimulation of primary MK and c mpl transfected Ba F3 cells leads to SHIP phosphorylation and activation of downstream effectors of the cell cycle and survival Geddis A. E. et al. 2001 276 34473 34479 .

Table 2 shows the different SHIP deficient models and their WT littermates n 6 mice genotype . Data was analyzed using an unpaired two tailed Students T test.

A decrease in the number of MK in the BM of SHIP deficient mice and an increase in MK numbers in the PB and spleen were observed. This may be due to increased responsiveness of MK to SDF 1 which would cause trans endothelial migration of MK from the BM to the circulation Wang J. F. et al. 1998 92 756 764 Hamada T. et al. 1998 188 539 548 Avecilla S. T. et al. 2004 10 64 71 . Thus SHIP may also control pathways that mediate MK migration in response to SDF 1 as it does in myeloid progenitors Kim C. H. et al. 1999 104 1751 1759 .

Despite an increase in the level of MKP and MK the platelet counts were reduced in SHIP deficient mice. It is well established that SHIP mice suffer from splenomegaly resulting from extramedullary hematopoieisis where SHIP deficient spleen are enlarged by 5 fold Helgason et al. 1998 12 1610 20 . Since splenomegaly has been associated with splenic platelet sequestration previously Aster R H Br. J. Haematol. 1972 22 259 63 Naouri et al. Acta Haematol. 1993 89 200 3 the present inventors hypothesize that SHIP deficient spleens sequester platelets leading to a reduction in circulating platelet numbers in the peripheral blood.

Thus overall these findings suggest that SHIP can be targeted in vivo to increase the pool of MKP and MK and thus enable this compartment to replenish platelets more rapidly following myeloablative chemotherapy and radiation treatment for example.

To observe if inhibition of SHIP during adulthood could also result in an increase in MKP production the present inventors used the MxCre model Wang et al. 2002 295 2094 2097 . Briefly the treatment of MxCRE mice with polylC will lead to Cre recombinase expression through Type interferon inducible Mx1 promoter and deletion of the gene section between two loxP sites Kuhn et al. 1995 259 1427 1429 Oberdoerffer et al. 2003 31 e140 . In this case the promoter and the first exon of the SHIP gene will be deleted resulting in the ablation of SHIP expression. As a control MxCre SHIPare treated with polylC in the same manner than the MxCRE mice. Twenty one days after the last polylC treatment mice were euthanized and the level of MKP was evaluated by flow cytometry . As observed in there was an increase in the percentage of MKP in the BM and spleen of SHIP ablated mice as compared to MxCre mice. Furthermore it was observed that SHIP ablated BM contains approximately 4 times more MKP than their MxCre counterpart . As for the germline SHIP an increase in the percentage of MK present in the spleen was also observed shown in . This result suggests that mice that undergo normal development can also exhibit increased MKP numbers once SHIP is deleted during adulthood. Thus methods and agents that inhibit SHIP function could be used as a therapy in vitro e.g. ex vivo or in vivo to increase megakaryocytopoiesis in adult patients.

The underlined portion of shRNA 63332 SEQ ID NO 18 GCTTCCAGAAGAGCATCTTAT SEQ ID NO 20 and shRNA 63331 SEQ ID NO 19 GCCCATATCACCCAAGAAGTTT SEQ ID NO 21 represent the target sequences in human SHIP. The other non underlined portions are the loop and termini of the shRNA.

H1 was predicted to have the best knockdown effectiveness by the siRNA design tool available on the DHARMACON website using the default parameters. H1 and H2 siRNA were delivered to human NK cells in vitro using the nucleofection system AMAXA Maryland USA . Twenty four hours later cells were lysed and a Western Blot was performed to determine the level of SHIP protein in the test cells following administration of the siRNAs. The actin protein level was also observed to ensure equal loading of the protein lysate. Results are shown in . Both H1 and H2 effectively reduced SHIP expression however H1 was more effective which was consistent with the siRNA design tool.

It will be seen that the objects set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

All patents patent applications provisional applications and publications referred to or cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety including all figures and tables to the extent they are not inconsistent with the explicit teachings of this specification.

