---

title: Electronic circuit, electro-optical device, method for driving electro-optical device and electronic apparatus
abstract: A drive current corresponding to a digital-data voltage or an analog-data voltage transmitted via a data line can be transmitted to an organic EL element of a pixel circuit provided corresponding to the intersection of a scan line and the data line. The digital-data voltage can be transmitted to the pixel circuit so as to control gray scale by digital-gray-scale modulation for decreasing power consumption. Further, the analog-data voltage can be transmitted to the pixel circuit so as to control the gray scale by analog-gray-scale modulation for increasing the display quality.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07589699&OS=07589699&RS=07589699
owner: Seiko Epson Corporation
number: 07589699
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060613
---
This is a Division of application Ser. No. 10 630 860 filed Jul. 31 2003. The entire disclosure of the prior application is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to an electronic circuit an electro optical device a method for driving the electro optical device and an electronic apparatus.

Recently much attention has been given to display device using an electro optical device including an organic EL element. For this type of electro optical devices various types of analog gray scale modulation methods can be used as a driving method for controlling the gray scale of the organic EL element. According to one of the analog gray scale modulation methods the voltage between the gate and source of a driving transistor can be rendered as the threshold voltage thereof for driving the driving transistor being provided for transmitting a current to the organic EL element. According to this method a voltage a data voltage transmitted from a DA converter circuit according to the luminance gray scale is held in a holding capacitor of a pixel circuit. The data voltage charged in the holding capacitor is transmitted to a gate terminal of the driving transistor formed of a thin film transistor TFT . The driving transistor transmits a drive current with a value corresponding to the data voltage to the organic EL element.

It is difficult to form the DA converter circuit with precision by using the thin film transistor TFT forming the pixel circuit the DA converter circuit being used in the case where the analog gray scale modulation method is applied. Therefore in general the DA converter circuit is formed by using an external IC driver.

However the electrical power consumption of the DA converter circuit formed of the external IC driver is larger than that of a TFT driver circuit formed on a display panel. In this case a digital gray scale modulation method may be used according to the reason described below. Since the digital gray scale modulation method does not require the use of the DA converter circuit for generating a multilevel value an analog value the electrical power consumption can be reduced. However the display quality obtained according to the digital gray scale modulation method is lower than that in the case where the analog gray scale modulation method is applied.

The present invention takes into account the above described problems. An object of the present invention is to provide an electronic circuit that can achieve adequate display quality by a small amount of electrical power an electro optical device a method for driving the electro optical device and an electronic apparatus.

An electronic circuit of the present invention can include a first transistor that becomes conductive when a scan line is selected a capacitive element for holding an electrical charge amount according to a data signal transmitted from a data line via the first transistor and a second transistor whose conduction state is controlled based on the electrical charge amount held in the capacitive element. The second transistor can be used for transmitting a current amount corresponding to the conduction state to an electronic element. The electrical charge amount according to the data signal can be accumulated in the capacitive element in the case where either a two level data voltage or a multilevel data voltage is transmitted as the data signal.

Accordingly either the two level data voltage or the multilevel data voltage can be used as required whereby a gray scale image can be presented according to the digital gray scale modulation method and the analog gray scale modulation method. As a result the digital gray scale modulation method can be selected in the case where high display quality is not required and a small amount of electrical power is consumed. On the other hand the gray scale image can be presented according to the analog gray scale modulation method in the case where high display quality is required.

In this electronic circuit the two level data voltage and the multilevel data voltage are transmitted via the first switching transistor. Accordingly the two level data voltage is transmitted to the capacitive element via the first switching transistor for performing the digital gray scale modulation and the multilevel voltage is transmitted to the capacitive element via the first switching transistor for performing the analog gray scale modulation.

This electronic circuit further comprises a third transistor for resetting the electrical charge amount held in the capacitive element. Accordingly the two level data voltage held in the capacitive element is reset by the third transistor and the capacitive element waits until the next two level data voltage is transmitted thereto.

The electronic circuit can further include a fourth transistor that becomes conductive based on the multilevel data voltage and that is connected between the gate and drain of the second transistor the fourth transistor being used for compensating the threshold voltage of the second transistor. Accordingly variations in threshold voltage of the second transistor are compensated by the fourth transistor whereby the second transistor can become conductive according to the multilevel data voltage without being affected by the threshold voltage thereof.

The electronic circuit further comprises a fifth transistor that becomes conductive based on the multilevel data voltage and that determines the timing of driving the electronic element. Accordingly a current amount according to the conduction state on the basis of the multilevel data voltage of the second transistor is transmitted to the electronic element by the fifth transistor whereby the electronic element is driven.

The electronic element used in the electronic circuit is an EL element. Accordingly the EL element emits light according to the conduction state of the second transistor.

The EL element in this electronic circuit can include a light emission layer formed of an organic material.

The EL element can be an organic EL element that can have the light emission layer formed of the organic material.

An electro optical device of the present invention include a plurality of scan lines a plurality of data lines a plurality of unit circuits a first data voltage output circuit for outputting a two level data voltage as a data signal to each of the plurality of unit circuits via the plurality of data lines and a second data voltage output circuit for outputting a multilevel data voltage to each of the plurality of unit circuits via the plurality of data lines. Subsequently the digital gray scale modulation can be performed by inputting the two level data voltage via the first data voltage output circuit and the analog gray scale modulation can be performed by inputting the multilevel data voltage via the second data voltage output circuit.

In the electro optical device the two level data voltage and the multilevel data voltage can be transmitted via one and the same data line. Therefore the two level data voltage and the multilevel data voltage are transmitted via one and the same data line in the case where either the digital gray scale modulation or the analog gray scale modulation is performed.

In the electro optical device the two level data voltage and the multilevel data voltage are transmitted via the data lines that are different from each other. Therefore the data line through which the two level data voltage is transmitted to the unit circuit in the case where the digital gray scale modulation is performed is different from that through which the multilevel data voltage is transmitted to the unit circuit in the case where the analog gray scale modulation is performed.

An electro optical device of the present invention can include a plurality of scan lines a plurality of data lines provided so as to cross the scan lines a unit circuit that is provided so as to correspond to each of the intersections of the scar lines and the data lines and that transmits a drive current according to a data voltage transmitted via the data line to an electro optical element and a control device that generates and outputs either a two level data voltage for applying digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element or a multilevel data voltage for applying analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element based on image data.

Accordingly the control device can present a gray scale image according to two methods that is to say by applying the digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element and applying the analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element. As a result the digital gray scale modulation is selected in the case where high display quality is not required and a small amount of electrical power is consumed. On the other hand the gray scale image can be presented by the analog gray scale modulation in the case where high display quality is required.

The unit circuit in the electro optical device can include a first transistor that becomes conductive when the scan line is selected a capacitive element for holding either a two level data voltage for digital gray scale modulation or a multilevel data voltage for analog gray scale modulation transmitted from the data line via the first transistor as an electrical charge amount and a second transistor whose conduction state is controlled based on the electrical charge amount held in the capacitive element. The second transistor can be used for transmitting a current amount corresponding to the conduction state to the electro optical element.

Accordingly the capacitive element holds the two level data voltage in the case where the digital gray scale modulation is performed. The second transistor becomes conductive and non conductive based on the two level data voltage held in the capacitive element. The capacitive element holds the multilevel data voltage in the case where the analog gray scale modulation is performed. The second transistor becomes conductive according to the multilevel data voltage held in the capacitive element.

The unit circuit in the electro optical device can further include a third transistor for resetting the electrical charge amount held in the capacitive element. Therefore the two level data voltage held in the capacitive element is reset by the third transistor and the capacitive element waits until the next two level data voltage is transmitted.

In the electro optical device the unit circuit can further include a fourth transistor for compensating the threshold voltage of the second transistor the fourth transistor being connected between the threshold voltage of the second transistor when the analog gray scale modulation is performed. Accordingly variations in threshold voltage of the second transistor are compensated by the fourth transistor whereby the second transistor becomes conductive according to the multilevel data voltage without being affected by the threshold voltage thereof.

The unit circuit of the electro optical device further comprises a fifth transistor for determining the timing of driving the electro optical element. Therefore the fifth transistor transmits a current amount according to the conduction state on the basis of the multilevel data voltage of the second transistor to the electro optical element whereby light emission is started.

The electro optical element in the electro optical device is an EL element. Therefore the EL element emits light according to the conduction state of the second transistor.

The EL element in the electro optical device has a light emission layer formed of an organic material. Therefore the EL element is an organic EL element having the light emission layer formed of the organic material.

In the electro optical device the control device can generate the two level data voltage for applying the digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element in low electrical power consumption mode and the multilevel data voltage for applying the analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element in non low electrical power consumption mode for driving the electro optical element. Therefore the control means can present the gray scale image by applying digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element in low electrical power consumption mode and applying analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element in non low electrical power consumption mode.

In the electro optical device the control device can generate the two level data voltage for applying the digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element when the image data is first display data and the multilevel data voltage for applying the analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element when the image data is second display data whose display quality is higher than that of the first display data for driving the electro optical element. Therefore the control means can present the gray scale image by applying digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element in the case where high display quality is not required and applying analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element in the case where the high display quality is required.

In the electro optical device the control device can include a two level data voltage generation circuit for generating the two level data voltage for applying the digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element and a multilevel data voltage generation circuit for generating the multilevel data voltage for applying the analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element. Therefore the two level data voltage generation circuit generates the two level data voltage for performing the digital gray scale modulation. Further the multilevel data voltage is generated in the multilevel data voltage generation circuit for performing the analog gray scale modulation.

The electro optical device can further include a first output circuit for outputting the two level data voltage transmitted from the two level data voltage generation circuit and a second output circuit for outputting the multilevel data voltage transmitted from the multilevel data voltage generation circuit between the control device and each of the data line and further can include a switching circuit for outputting either the two level data voltage from the first output circuit or the multilevel data voltage from the second output circuit to the data line. Therefore through the use of the switching circuit the two level data voltage is output from the first output circuit to the data line in the case where the digital gray scale modulation is performed and the multilevel data voltage is output from the second output circuit to the data line in the case where the analog gray scale modulation is performed.

In the electro optical device the digital gray scale modulation is time ratio gray scale modulation. Therefore in the case of this electro optical element the gray scale is controlled according to the time ratio gray scale method.

In the electro optical device the time ratio gray scale modulation can be performed by writing the two level data voltage into the unit circuit corresponding to one of the scan lines selected in sequence and starting transmission of a current with a level according the two level data voltage to the electro optical element at the same instant and stopping the current transmission to the electro optical element after a predetermined time. Therefore in the case of this electro optical element the two level data voltage is written into the unit circuit corresponding to one of the scan lines selected in sequence. At the same instant transmission of a current with a level according to the two level data voltage to the electro optical element is started. The current transmission is stopped after the predetermined time whereby the gray scale is controlled.

A method for driving an electro optical device having a plurality of scan lines a plurality of data lines provided so as to cross the scan lines and a unit circuit that is provided so as to correspond to each of the intersections of the scan lines and the data lines and that transmits a drive current according to a data voltage transmitted via the data line to an electro optical element the electro optical element can be driven by generating a two level data voltage for applying digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element in low electrical power consumption mode and a multilevel data voltage for applying analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element in non low electrical power consumption mode. Subsequently in the case where this electro optical element is used the gray scale is controlled by performing the digital gray scale modulation in low electrical power consumption mode and performing the analog gray scale modulation in non low electrical power consumption mode.

A method for driving an electro optical device having a plurality of scan lines a plurality of data lines provided so as to cross the scan lines and a unit circuit that is provided so as to correspond to each of the intersections of the scan lines and the data lines and that transmits a drive current according to a data voltage transmitted via the data line to an electro optical element the electro optical element can be driven by generating a two level data voltage for applying digital gray scale modulation to the electro optical element when image data is first display data and a multilevel data voltage for applying analog gray scale modulation to the electro optical element when the image data is second display data whose display quality is higher than that of the first display data. Therefore in the case of this electro optical element the gray scale is controlled by performing the digital gray scale modulation in the case where high display quality is not required and performing the analog gray scale modulation in the case where high display quality is required.

According to this method for driving the electro optical device the digital gray scale modulation is time ratio gray scale modulation. Therefore in the case of this electro optical element the gray scale is controlled by the time ratio gray scale modulation.

According to the method for driving the electro optical device the time ratio gray scale modulation is performed by writing the two level data voltage into the unit circuit corresponding to one of the scan lines selected in sequence and starting transmission of a current with a level according the two level data voltage to the electro optical element at the same instant and stopping the current transmission to the electro optical element after a predetermined time. Therefore the two level data voltage is written into the unit circuit corresponding to one of the scan lines selected in sequence. At the same instant transmission of a current with a level according the two level data voltage to the electro optical element is started. The current transmission to the electro optical element is stopped after the predetermined time whereby the gray scale is controlled.

An electronic apparatus of the present invention can have an electro optical device according to the present invention mounted thereon. Accordingly adequately high display quality can be achieved by a small amount of electrical power.

In the case where the time division gray scale modulation is performed scanning one frame performed for displaying one image is divided into six frames. The six divided frames are referred to as sub frames SF to SF. In the sub frames SF to SF the scan lines are selected in sequence. At the instant when the scan lines are selected organic EL elements on each selected scan line emit light. Then the organic EL elements go out in sequence after a predetermined time a light emission time elapsed respectively.

The sub frames SF to SF include light emission time periods TL to TL respectively. These light emission time periods TL to TL are specified as below.

For obtaining 7 luminance gray scale the pixel circuits are driven within a time period from the first sub frame SF to the third sub frame SF so that the organic EL elements emit light and the pixel circuits are stopped within a time period from the fourth sub frame SF to the sixth sub frame SF so that the organic EL elements go out.

For obtaining 32 luminance gray scale the pixel circuits are driven within the sixth sub frame SF so that the organic EL elements emit light and the pixel circuits are stopped within a time period from the first frame SF to fifth sub frames SF so that the organic EL elements go out.

For obtaining 44 luminance gray scale the pixel circuits are driven within the third sub frame SF the fourth sub frame SF and the sixth sub frame SF so that the organic EL elements emit light. Then the pixel circuits are stopped within the first sub frame SF the second sub frame SF and the fifth sub frame SF so that the organic EL elements go out.

As described above the gray scale can be obtained by selecting suitable sub frames among the sub frames SF to SF per one frame.

According to the organic EL display includes a display panel a scan line driving circuit a data line driving circuit and a control circuit . The display panel the scan line driving circuit the data line driving circuit and the control circuit that are included in the organic EL display may be formed as electronic parts that are independent of one another. For example the scan line driving circuit the data line driving circuit and the control circuit may be formed as a semiconductor integrated circuit on a chip. Further all or part of the display panel the scan line driving circuit the data line driving circuit and the control circuit may be integrated into one electronic part. For example the data line driving circuit and the scan line driving circuit may be integrated into the display panel . All or part of the scan line driving circuit the data line driving circuit and the control circuit may be integrated into a programmable IC chip. In this case the functions of these parts may be realized by software that is a program written into the IC chip.

The display panel has a plurality of pixel circuits arranged in a matrix form as shown in . The pixel circuits function as electronic circuits and or unit circuits. In other words the pixel circuits are provided in positions corresponding to the intersections of a plurality of m data lines X to Xm m is an integer the data lines extending in a direction along the rows of the display panel and a plurality of n scan lines Y to Yn n is an integer the scan lines extending in a direction along the columns of the display panel . Since each of the pixel circuits are connected between one of the data lines X to Xm corresponding thereto and one of the scan lines Y to Yn corresponding thereto the pixel circuits are arranged in a matrix form. Each of the pixel circuit has an organic EL element functioning as an electronic element or an electro optical element. The organic EL element has a light emission layer formed of an organic material. Transistors that will be described later and that are formed in each pixel circuit are usually formed as a thin film transistor TFT .

The pixel circuit includes a driving transistor Q a switching transistor Q a resetting transistor Q a compensation transistor Q a starting transistor Q and a holding capacitor C and a capacitor C functioning as capacitive elements.

Each of the switching transistor Q functioning as a first transistor the resetting transistor Q functioning as a third transistor the compensation transistor Q functioning as a fourth transistor and the starting transistor Q functioning as a fifth transistor is formed of an N channel FET. The driving transistor Q functioning as a second transistor is formed of a P channel FET.

A drain of the driving transistor Q is connected to the anode of the organic EL element via the starting transistor Q and a source of the driving transistor Q is connected to a power line L to which a power voltage VOEL is supplied. The holding capacitor C is connected between the gate of the driving transistor Q and the power line L. The compensation transistor Q is connected between the gate and drain of the driving transistor Q. A gate of the compensation transistor Q is connected to a second sub scan line Yn forming the scan line Yn. A second scan signal SCn is input from the second sub scan line Yn.

The gate of the driving transistor Q is connected to the data line Xm via the capacitor C and the switching transistor Q. A gate of the switching transistor Q is connected to a first sub scan line Yn forming the scan line Yn. A first scan signal SCn is input from the first sub scan line Yn. The resetting transistor Q is connected in parallel to the holding capacitor C. A gate of the resetting transistor Q is connected to a fourth sub scan line Yn forming the scan line Yn. A reset signal SRESTn is input from the fourth sub scan line Yn. A gate of the starting transistor Q is connected to a third sub scan line Yn forming the scan line Yn. A third scan signal SCn is input from the third sub scan line Yn.

In the above described pixel circuit a two level data voltage is written into the pixel circuit corresponding to one of the scan lines selected in sequence. At the same instant transmission of a current with a level corresponding to the two level data voltage to the organic EL element is started. After a predetermined time period elapsed the current transmission to the organic EL element is stopped. Accordingly time division gray scale is achieved. More specifically as shown in the compensation transistor Q is held in a non conduction off state and the starting transistor Q is held in a conduction on state in the sub frames SF to SF based on the second scan signal SCn and the third scan signal SCn. Then in the sub frames SF to SF the first scan signal SCn and the reset signal SRESTn are output for having on and off control over the switching transistor Q and the resetting transistor Q in predetermined timing. Subsequently the gray scale is presented according to the digital gray scale modulation method.

In other words when the scan signal SCn is output to the first sub scan line Yn in the state where the compensation transistor Q is held in the non conduction state and the starting transistor Q is held in the conduction state the switching transistor Q is turned on. When the switching transistor Q is turned on an electrical charge amount corresponding to two level digital data VDGDATAm is accumulated in the holding capacitor C. The digital data VDGDATAm is output from the data line Xm and the value thereof is of two level that is either L level or H level . This digital data VDGDATAm that can be at either the L level or the H level is data for turning the driving transistor Q on or off. The holding capacitor C holding the digital data VDGDATAm keeps holding this digital data VDGDATAm that had been accumulated even though the scan signal SCn is lost and the switching transistor Q is turned off.

The driving transistor Q is controlled so as to be in an on state or an off state according to the nature of the accumulated digital data VDGDATAm. When the driving transistor Q is in the on state a drive current is transmitted to the organic EL element . Subsequently the organic EL element emits light. Conversely when the driving transistor Q is in the off state the drive current transmission stops and the organic EL element stops emitting light.

When a reset signal SRESTn is output to the fourth sub scan line Yn the resetting transistor Q shifts from the off state to the on state. When the resetting transistor Q is in the on state a power voltage VOEL is applied from the power line L to the holding capacitor C via the resetting transistor Q. Subsequently the digital data VDGDATAm is erased and the potential of the gate of the driving transistor Q becomes equivalent to the potential of the power voltage VOEL. That is to say the holding capacitor C is reset.

When the holding capacitor C is reset the driving transistor Q enters the off state and the organic EL element that is emitting light based on the digital data VDGDATAm stops emitting light and waits until the next light emission operation. That is to say in the case where the time division gray scale modulation is performed the time periods TL to TL where the organic EL element of each pixel circuit emits light is the time frame from when the scan signal SCn is output until the reset signal SRESTn is output.

In the pixel circuit analog gray scale modulation is performed by rendering the voltage between the gate and source of the driving transistor Q as the threshold voltage of the transistor Q for driving. As shown in the resetting transistor Q is kept in the non conduction state based on the reset signal SRESTn. Then the first to third scan signals SCn to SCn for having on and off control over the switching transistor Q the compensation transistor Q and the starting transistor Q in predetermined timing are output. Subsequently the gray scale is presented through the analog gray scale modulation.

In other words when the H level scan signal SCn is output to the first sub scan line Yn during the resetting transistor Q is in the non conduction state the switching transistor Q enters the on state. At this time the bias voltage VOEL placed on the data line Xm is applied to the capacitor C via the switching transistor Q. Further in the previous cycle period before the H level scan signal SCn is output since the starting transistor Q is in the on state due to the H level scan signal SCn that is output to the third sub scan line Yn a current can flow into the organic EL element . Therefore the drain potential of the driving transistor Q is adequately close to the ground potential of the organic EL element . That is to say the drain potential of the driving transistor Q adequately tends in a minus direction so that the driving transistor Q is kept in an open state.

Then when the scan signal SCn that is output to the second sub scan line Yn shifts from the L level to the H level the compensation transistor Q enters the on state. Further the scan signal SCn that is output to the third sub scan line Yn is lost shifted to the L level and the starting transistor Q enters the off state.

Since the compensation transistor Q is in the on state and the starting transistor Q is in the off state the current of the power voltage VOEL flows into the gate of the driving transistor Q and boosts the potential of the gate. When the voltage placed on the gate is boosted to voltage Vg VOEL Vth obtained by subtracting the threshold voltage Vth of the driving transistor Q from the power voltage VOEL the driving transistor Q is turned off.

The compensation transistor Q enters the off state when the scan signal SCn of the second sub scan line Yn is shifted to the L level. At this moment the voltage Vg VOEL Vth placed on the gate of the driving transistor Q is maintained.

After the voltage Vg VOEL Vth is held in the gate of the driving transistor Q an analog data voltage VANDATAm 

Then an H level scan signal SCn is output from the third sub scan line Yn and the starting transistor Q enters the on state. Since the starting transistor Q is turned on the driving transistor Q enters the conduction state corresponding to the value of this analog data voltage VANDATAm. Further a drive current corresponding to the analog data voltage VANDATAm is transmitted to the organic EL element . The organic EL element emits light with luminance corresponding to the analog data voltage VANDATAm.

The scan line driving circuit selects one from among the plurality of scan lines Y to Yn. That is to say the scan line driving circuit is a circuit that outputs a scan signal and drives a group of pixel circuits connected to the selected scan line. The scan line driving circuit outputs scan signals SC to SCn to the scan lines Y to Yn in predetermined timing respectively based on various types of signals transmitted from the control circuit .

More specifically according to the above described gray scale modulation method two level data voltages are written into the pixel circuits corresponding to one of the scan lines that are selected in sequence. At the same instant transmission of currents with a level corresponding to the two level data voltages to the organic EL elements is started. Then after the predetermined time elapsed the current transmission to the organic EL elements is stopped. In this case groups of the pixel circuits on the scan lines Y to Yn need to be driven in sequence in the sub frames SF to SF. Therefore the scan line driving circuit generates and outputs the scan signals SC to SCn for selecting the scan lines Y to Yn in sequence in the period of sub frames SF to SF so as to display an image corresponding to the one frame. When the predetermined time a light emission time elapses after the scan line driving circuit outputs the scan signals SC to SCn to the scan lines Y to Yn the scan signals SC to SCn corresponding thereto respectively the scan line driving circuit outputs reset signals SREST to SRESTn to the corresponding scan lines Y to Yn respectively.

In other words it is arranged that the organic EL elements emit light only in the light emission time periods TL to TL in the sub frames SF to SF respectively.

In the case where the above described analog gray scale modulation method is applied the scan line driving circuit outputs the scan signals SCI to SCn to the scan lines Y to Yn in the predetermined timing based on the various types of signals transmitted from the control circuit .

As shown in the data line driving circuit has a digital data voltage output circuit functioning as a first data voltage output circuit and an analog data voltage output circuit functioning as a second data voltage output circuit for each of the data lines X to Xm.

When the digital data voltages VDGDATA to VDGDATAm are input from the control circuit to the digital data voltage output circuit the digital data voltage output circuit outputs the digital data voltages VDGDATA to VDGDATAm to the corresponding data lines X to Xm via the first switch Q in synchronization with the scan signals SC to SCn. Further when the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm are input from the control circuit to the analog data voltage output circuit the analog data voltage output circuit outputs the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm to the corresponding data lines X to Xm via the second switch Q in synchronization with the scan signals SC to SCn.

The first switch Q and the second switch Q select either the digital data voltages VDGDATA to VDGDATAm or the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm and output them to the data lines X to Xm. Each of these switches is formed of an N channel FET. When a first control signal SG is input from the control circuit to a gate terminal of the first switch Q the first switch Q is turned on. Then the first switch Q outputs the digital data voltages VDGDATA to VDGDATAm to the data lines X to Xm. When a second control signal SG is input from the control circuit to a gate terminal of the second switch Q the second switch Q is turned on. Then the second switch Q outputs the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm to the data lines X to Xm.

Bias voltages the power voltages VOEL are transmitted to the data lines X to Xm when the digital data voltages VDGDATA to VDGDATAm and the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm are not transmitted thereto.

In other words when the scan line driving circuit outputs a scan signal to one of the scan lines the data line driving circuit outputs the digital data voltages VDGDATA to VDGDATAm to the pixel circuits on the selected scan line in the case where the digital gray scale modulation is performed. In the case where the analog gray scale modulation is performed the data line driving circuit outputs the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm to the pixel circuits on the selected scan line.

Upon receiving image data D from an external device not shown the control circuit functioning as a control device a two level data voltage generation circuit and a multilevel data voltage generation circuit determines whether the gray scale should be controlled according to the digital gray scale modulation method or the analog gray scale modulation method based on the image data D.

In this embodiment if the image data D is first display data for producing a freeze frame picture display such as a character display the gray scale is controlled according to the digital gray scale modulation method. However if the image data D is second display data for producing a display for moving images a movie and so forth the gray scale is controlled according to the analog gray scale modulation method. That is to say the control circuit controls the scan line driving circuit and the data line driving circuit so that the digital gray scale modulation method the time ratio gray scale modulation method is used in the case where significantly high display quality is unnecessary for example in the case where a freeze frame picture display is produced and the analog gray scale modulation method is used in the case where high display quality is needed for example in the case where a moving image display is produced.

In the case where the time ratio gray scale modulation method is used the control circuit divides one frame of the image data D into six sub frames and presents one image in 64 gray scale through the organic EL display by using the divided six sub frames SF to SF.

The control circuit generates the digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm for the image data D corresponding to one frame the digital data corresponding to the first to sixth sub frames SF to SF for the data line driving circuit . The digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm is transmitted to the pixel circuits on the scan lines Y to Yn.

At this time the control circuit generates digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm for presenting one level gray scale in the first sub frame SF digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm for presenting two level gray scale in the second sub frame SF and digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm for presenting four level gray scale in the third sub frame SF respectively. Further the control circuit generates digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm for presenting eight level gray scale in the fourth sub frame SF and digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm for presenting sixteen level gray scale in the fifth sub frame SF respectively. Further the control circuit generates digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm for presenting thirty two level gray scale in the sixth sub frame SF.

The digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm in the first to sixth sub frames SF to SF is output to the digital data voltage output circuit of the data line driving circuit in predetermined timing. At this time the control circuit outputs a first control signal SG to the first switch Q of the data line driving circuit .

In the case where the digital gray scale modulation is performed the control circuit controls the timing of making the scan line driving circuit sequentially output the scan signals SCn SCn to SCn for selecting the scan lines in sequence and controlling the pixel circuits the scan signals being generated in the scan line driving circuit .

Further the control circuit controls the timing of making the scan line driving circuit sequentially output reset signals SREST to SRESTn in the sub frames SF to SF to the scan lines Y to Yn. Incidentally in the first sub frame SF the scan line driving circuit outputs the reset signals SREST to SRESTn after a time TL elapsed since the scan signals SC to SCn were output. In the second sub frame SF the scan line driving circuit outputs the reset signals SREST to SRESTn after a time TL 2 TL elapsed since the scan signal SCn was output. In the third sub frame SF the scan line driving circuit outputs the reset signals SREST to SRESTn after a time TL 4 TL elapsed since the scan signal SCn was output. In the fourth sub frame SF the scan line driving circuit outputs the reset signals SREST to SRESTn after a time TL 8 TL elapsed since the scan signal SCn was output. In the fifth sub frame SF the scan line driving circuit outputs the reset signals SREST to SRESTn after a time TL 16 TL elapsed since the scan signal SCn was output. In the sixth sub frame SF the scan line driving circuit outputs the reset signals SREST to SRESTn after a time TL 32 TL elapsed since the scan signal SCn was output.

In the case where the analog gray scale modulation is performed the control circuit generates analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm based on image data D corresponding to one frame for each of the scan lines Y to Yn that are selected in sequence. The analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm is transmitted to the pixel circuits connected to the scan lines Y to Yn. Subsequently the image data D is presented through the organic EL display . The control circuit outputs the generated analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm to the analog data voltage output circuit of the data line driving circuit in predetermined timing. At the same instant the control circuit outputs a second control signal SG to the second switch Q of the data line driving circuit .

In the case where the analog gray scale modulation is performed the control circuit controls the timing of making the scan line driving circuit sequentially output the scan signals SCn SCn to SCn for selecting the scan lines in sequence and controlling the pixel circuits on the selected scan lines the scan signals being generated in the scan line driving circuit .

Upon receiving the image data D from the external device the control circuit determines whether the image data D is freeze image data or moving image data. If the image data D is the freeze image data the organic EL display enters digital gray scale modulation mode. If the image data D is the moving image data the organic EL display enters analog gray scale modulation mode.

First the digital gray scale modulation mode will be described. The control circuit generates digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm for the image data D corresponding to one frame the digital data corresponding to the first to sixth sub frames SF to SF for the data line driving circuit . The digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm is transmitted to the pixel circuits on the scan lines Y to Yn. The digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm in the first to sixth sub frames SF to SF is output to the digital data voltage output circuit of the data line driving circuit in predetermined timing. At this time the control circuit outputs a first control signal SG to the first switch Q of the data line driving circuit .

Further the control circuit controls the timing of making the scan line driving circuit sequentially output the scan signals SCn SCn to SCn for selecting the scan lines in sequence and controlling the pixel circuits the scan signals being generated in the scan line driving circuit . Further the control circuit controls the timing of making the scan line driving circuit sequentially output reset signals SREST to SRESTn in the sub frames SF to SF to the scan lines Y to Yn.

Then the scan line driving circuit outputs the scan signals SCn SCn to SCn for the first sub frame SF in sequence and selects the scan lines Yn in sequence.

Further the scan line driving circuit outputs the reset signals SRESTn after the time TL elapsed since the scan signals SCn were output.

Every time each of the scan lines Yn is selected the data line driving circuit outputs the digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm in the first sub frame SF in sequence to the pixel circuits on the selected scan line. Therefore the pixel circuits on the selected scan line operate emit light or go out based on the digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm. The pixel circuits go out in response to the reset signals SRESTn after the time TL elapsed.

When the last transmission of the digital data VDGDATA to VDGDATAm in the first sub frame SF to the pixel circuits on the scan lines Y to Yn is finished the scan line driving circuit outputs the scan signals SCn SCn to SCn for the second sub frame in sequence and selects the scan lines Y to Yn in sequence. Further the scan line driving circuit outputs the reset signals SREST to SRESTn after the time TL 2 TL elapsed since the scan signals SCn were output.

As in the above described case the data line driving circuit outputs the digital data voltages VDGDATA to VDGDATAm in the second sub frame SF in sequence to the pixel circuits on the selected scan lines. Therefore the pixel circuits on the selected scan lines operate emit light or go out based on the digital data voltages VDGDATA to VDGDATAm as in the above described case. Further the pixel circuits go out in response to the reset signals SRESTn after the time TL elapsed.

The same operations as in the above described case are repeated in the third to sixth sub frames SF to SF so that a display of an image corresponding to one frame is produced. When the operation for producing the display of the image corresponding to one frame is finished operations for producing a display of an image for the next frame are performed as in the above described manner.

The analog gray scale modulation mode will be described below. The control circuit generates the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm for the pixel circuits connected to the scan lines Y to Yn. The scan lines Y to Yn are selected in sequence based on the image data D corresponding to one frame. The analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm are generated for each of the scan lines Y to Yn. The control circuit outputs the generated analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm to the analog data voltage output circuit of the data line driving circuit in predetermined timing. At this time the control circuit outputs the second control signal SG to the second switch Q of the data line driving circuit . Further the control circuit controls the timing of making the scan line driving circuit sequentially output the scan signals SCn SCn to SCn for selecting the scan lines in sequence and controlling the pixel circuits on the selected scan lines the scan signals being generated in the scan line driving circuit .

Then the scan line driving circuit outputs the scan signals SCn SCn to SCn in sequence and selects the scan lines Y to Yn in sequence. Every time each of the scan lines Y to Yn is selected the data line driving circuit outputs the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm in sequence to the pixel circuits on the selected scan line. Therefore the organic EL element of each of the pixel circuits on the selected scan line emits light with luminance corresponding to the analog data voltages VANDATA to VANDATAm.

According to the embodiment the gray scale is presented by the digital gray scale modulation for producing a freeze frame picture display. The gray scale can also be presented by the analog gray scale modulation for producing a moving image display. However in the case where a high quality freeze frame picture display is required the gray scale can be presented by the analog gray scale modulation. Further in the case where a high quality moving image picture display is required the gray scale can be presented by the digital gray scale modulation.

Further the gray scale can be presented by the digital gray scale modulation for producing a character image display and the gray scale can also be presented by the analog gray scale modulation for producing an image display. That is to say the gray scale is presented by the digital gray scale modulation which requires low power consumption in the case where high quality is unnecessary. On the other hand the gray scale is presented by the analog gray scale modulation in the case where high quality is required.

Accordingly the organic EL display requires a small amount of electrical power and achieves adequate display quality.

A second embodiment of the present invention will now be described with reference to . Each pixel circuit according to this embodiment the pixel circuit functioning as an electronic circuit and or a unit circuit is different from that of the first embodiment. The difference will now be described in detail.

As shown in the pixel circuit of this embodiment which is different from that of the first embodiment does not have the compensation transistor Q the starting transistor Q and the capacitor C. That is to say the drain of the driving transistor Q is connected to the anode of the organic EL element and the cathode of the organic EL element is grounded. The source of the driving transistor Q is connected to the power line L to which the power voltage VOEL is transmitted. The holding capacitor C is connected between the gate of the driving transistor Q and the power line L.

The gate of the driving transistor Q is connected to the data line Xm via the switching transistor Q. The gate of the switching transistor Q is connected to the first sub scan line Yn forming the scan line Yn. The first scan signals SCn are input from the first sub scan line Yn. The resetting transistor Q is connected in parallel to the holding capacitor C. The gate of the resetting transistor Q is connected to the fourth sub scan line Yn forming the scan line Yn. The reset signal SRESTn is input from the fourth sub scan line Yn. Therefore in this embodiment the scan line Yn is formed of the first sub scan line Yn and the fourth sub scan line Yn. The second sub scan line Yn and the third sub scan line Yn are omitted.

In this pixel circuit when the digital gray scale modulation is performed the scan signal SCn is output to the first sub scan line Yn and the switching transistor Q enters the on state. When the switching transistor Q enters the on state an electrical charge amount according to the digital data VDGDATAm is transmitted from the digital data voltage output circuit and accumulated in the holding capacitor C via the data line Xm. The value of the digital data VDGDATAm is at either the L level or the H level .

The driving transistor Q is controlled so as to be in the on state or the off state according to the nature of the accumulated digital data VDGDATAm. When the driving transistor Q is in the on state a drive current is transmitted to the organic EL element and the organic EL element emits light. Conversely when the driving transistor Q is in the off state the drive current transmission is stopped and the organic EL element stops emitting light.

Then the reset signal SRESTn is output to the fourth sub scan line Yn and the resetting transistor Q is shifted from the off state to the on state. When the resetting transistor Q is in the on state the power voltage VOEL is applied from the power line L to the holding capacitor C via the resetting transistor Q. Subsequently the previous digital data VDGDATAm is erased and the potential of the gate of the driving transistor Q becomes the potential of the power voltage VOEL. That is to say the holding capacitor C is reset. Therefore in the case where the time ratio gray scale modulation that is the same as that in the first embodiment is performed the time periods TL to TL where the organic EL element of each pixel circuit emits light is a time period from when the scan signal SCn is output until the reset signal SRESTn is output.

In the pixel circuit in the case where the analog gray scale modulation is performed by rendering the voltage between the gate and source of the driving transistor Q as the threshold voltage of the transistor Q for driving the resetting transistor Q is kept in the non conduction state based on the reset signal SRESTn. Then the first scan signal SCn for having on and off control over the switching transistor Q in predetermined timing is output. Subsequently a gray scale image produced by the analog gray scale modulation can be presented.

In other words when the scan signal SCn is output to the first sub scan line Yn the switching transistor Q enters the on state. When the switching transistor Q is in the on state an electrical charge amount according to the analog data voltage VANDATAm is transmitted from the analog data voltage output circuit and accumulated in the holding capacitor C via the data line Xm. The driving transistor Q enters a conduction state corresponding to the value of the analog data voltage VANDATAM accumulated in this holding capacitor C. A drive current corresponding to the conduction state of the driving transistor Q is transmitted to the organic EL element . Then the organic EL element emits light with luminance corresponding to the analog data voltage VANDATAm.

In the pixel circuit of this embodiment the gray scale is presented by the digital gray scale modulation for producing a freeze frame picture display. The gray scale can also be presented by the analog gray scale modulation for producing a moving image display. However in the case where a high quality freeze frame picture display is required the gray scale can be presented by the analog gray scale modulation. Further in the case where a moving image picture display is required the gray scale can be presented by the digital gray scale modulation. Further the gray scale can be presented according to the digital gray scale modulation for producing a character image display and the gray scale can also be presented according to the analog gray scale modulation for producing an image display. That is to say the gray scale is presented by the digital gray scale modulation which requires low power consumption in the case where high display quality is unnecessary. On the other hand the gray scale is presented by the analog gray scale modulation in the case where high display quality is required. Accordingly the organic EL display formed of the pixel circuit of this embodiment requires a small amount of electrical power and achieves adequate display quality.

A third embodiment of the present invention will now be described with reference to . Each pixel circuit according to this embodiment the pixel circuit functioning as an electronic circuit and or a unit circuit is different from that of the first embodiment. Therefore the difference will now be described in detail.

As shown in the pixel circuit of this embodiment which is different from that of the first embodiment does not have the compensation transistor Q and the starting transistor Q. That is to say the drain of the driving transistor Q is connected to the anode of the organic EL element and the cathode of the organic EL element is grounded. The source of the driving transistor Q is connected to the power line L to which the power voltage VOEL is transmitted. The holding capacitor C is connected between the gate of the driving transistor Q and the power line L.

The gate of the driving transistor Q is connected to the data line Xm via the switching transistor Q. The gate of the switching transistor Q is connected to the first sub scan line Yn forming the scan line Yn. The first scan signals SCn are input from the first sub scan line Yn.

The source of the resetting transistor Q is connected to the power line L and the gate thereof is connected to the fourth sub scan line Yn forming the scan line Yn. The drain of the resetting transistor Q is connected to the source of the compensation transistor Q formed of a P channel transistor. The drain of the compensation transistor Q is connected to the gate of the driving transistor Q. The gate and drain of the compensation transistor Q are connected to each other. That is to say the gate and drain are diode connected.

In this pixel circuit in the case where the digital gray scale modulation is performed and the resetting transistor Q is in the off state the switching transistor Q enters the on state when the H level scan signal SCn is output to the first sub scan line Yn. When the switching transistor Q enters the on state an electrical charge amount corresponding to the digital data VDGDATAm is transmitted from the digital data voltage output circuit and accumulated in the holding capacitor C via the data line Xm. The value of the digital data VDGDATAm is at either the L level or the H level .

The driving transistor Q is controlled so as to be in the on state or the off state according to the nature of the accumulated digital data VDGDATAm. When the driving transistor Q is in the on state a drive current is transmitted to the organic EL element and the organic EL element emits light. Conversely when the driving transistor Q is in the off state the drive current transmission is stopped and the organic EL element stops emitting light.

Then the reset signal SRESTn is output to the fourth sub scan line Yn and the resetting transistor Q is shifted from the off state to the on state. When the resetting transistor Q is in the on state the power voltage VOEL is applied from the power line L to the compensation transistor Q via the resetting transistor Q and the compensation transistor Q is turned on. Since the compensation transistor Q is turned on the value of the gate voltage of the driving transistor Q becomes equivalent to that of a voltage obtained by subtracting the threshold voltage of the compensation transistor Q from the power voltage VOEL. That is to say in the case where the driving transistor Q is turned on based on the nature of the digital data VDGDATAm and the organic EL element emits light by the drive current transmitted thereto the gate voltage of the driving transistor Q increases.

That is to say the holding capacitor C is reset the driving transistor Q is turned off and the organic EL element stops emitting light. Therefore in the case where the time ratio gray scale modulation that is the same as that in the above described embodiment is performed the time periods TL to TL where the organic EL element of each pixel circuit emits light is a time period from when the scan signal SCn is output until the reset signal SRESTn is output.

In the pixel circuit in the case where the analog gray scale modulation is performed by rendering the voltage between the gate and source of the driving transistor Q as the threshold voltage of the transistor Q for driving the scan signal SCn is output to the first sub scan line Yn. Then the switching transistor Q enters the on state. At this instant the bias voltage VOEL on the data line Xm is applied to the capacitor C via the switching transistor Q.

Subsequently the H level reset signal SRESTn is output to the fourth sub scan line Yn and the resetting transistor Q enters the on state. When the resetting transistor Q enters the on state the power voltage VOEL is applied to the compensation transistor Q via the resetting transistor Q whereby the compensation transistor Q is turned on. Subsequently the value of the gate voltage of the driving transistor Q is boosted to that of the threshold voltage Vth of the compensation transistor Q whereby the driving transistor Q is turned off.

When the reset signal SRESTn is erased the resetting transistor Q enters the off state. At this instant the voltage Vg VOEL Vth on the gate of the driving transistor Q is maintained.

When the voltage Vg VOEL Vth in the gate of the driving transistor Q is maintained the analog data voltage VANDATAm 

In this state the scan signal SCn on the first sub scan line Yn is lost and the switching transistor Q is turned off. Since the switching transistor Q is turned off the capacitor C enters the floating state and the voltage Vg in the gate of the driving transistor Q is maintained at the level of the potential that decreased according to the analog data voltage VANDATAm.

Subsequently the driving transistor Q enters the conduction state corresponding to the value of this analog data voltage VANDATAm and a drive current corresponding to the analog data voltage VANDATAm is applied to the organic EL element . The organic EL element emits light with luminance corresponding to the analog data voltage VANDATAm and keeps emitting light until the next light emission operation.

In the pixel circuit of this embodiment the gray scale is presented by the digital gray scale modulation for producing a freeze frame picture display. The gray scale can also be presented by the analog gray scale modulation for producing a moving image display. However in the case where a high quality freeze frame picture display is required the gray scale can be presented by the analog gray scale modulation. Further in the case where a high quality moving image picture display is required the gray scale can be presented by the digital gray scale modulation. Further the gray scale can be presented by the digital gray scale modulation for producing a character image display and the gray scale can also be presented by the analog gray scale modulation for producing an image display. That is to say the gray scale is presented by the digital gray scale modulation which requires low power consumption in the case where high display quality is unnecessary. On the other hand the gray scale is presented by the analog gray scale modulation in the case where high display quality is required. Accordingly the organic EL display formed of the pixel circuit of this embodiment requires a small amount of electrical power for achieving adequate display quality.

An electronic apparatus having the organic EL display of the first embodiment mounted thereon the organic EL display functioning as the electro optical device will now be described with reference to . The organic EL display can be used for various kinds of electronic apparatuses such as a mobile personal computer a mobile phone a digital camera and so forth.

In the first to third embodiments as shown in and the digital data voltage VDGDATAm and the analog data voltage VANDATAm are transmitted to the holding capacitor C via the switching transistor Q. As shown in and the data line Xm is formed of a first sub data line Xm and a second sub data line Xm. The first sub data line Xm is connected to the digital data voltage output circuit via the first switch Q and the second sub data line Xm is connected to the analog data voltage output circuit via the second switch Q. The first sub data line Xm is connected to a first switching transistor Qand the second sub data line Xm is connected to a second switching transistor Q

In this state the first switching transistor Qis turned on and the digital data voltage VDGDATAm is transmitted from the digital data voltage output circuit to the holding capacitor C. Further the second switching transistor Qis turned on and the analog data voltage VANDATAm is transmitted from the analog data voltage output circuit to the holding capacitor C.

That is to say the digital data voltage VDGDATAm and the analog data voltage VANDATAm may be transmitted to the holding capacitor C via different transistors that is the first switching transistor Qand the second switching transistor Q respectively. In this case the same effects as those in the first to third embodiments can be obtained.

In the first embodiment the digital gray scale modulation is performed as the time ratio gray scale modulation. That is to say the two level data voltage is written into the pixel circuit corresponding to one of the scan lines selected in sequence. At the same instant the current having the level corresponding to the two level data voltage is supplied to the organic EL element . After a predetermined time period elapsed the current supply to the organic EL element is stopped. However the digital gray scale modulation may be performed according to a simultaneous light emission method. In another case an area gray scale modulation may be performed as the digital gray scale modulation. In this case each of the pixel circuits is rendered as one sub pixel and a plurality of the sub pixels is grouped. In the case where the digital gray scale modulation is performed a suitable number of the grouped sub pixels are controlled so as to be in a non light emission state or in a light emission state for presenting the gray scale.

According to the first embodiment the reset signal SRESTn is input to the gate of the resetting transistor Q via the fourth sub scan line Yn. Subsequently the two level data voltage VDGDATAm held in the holding capacitor C is reset. In the first embodiment the time ratio gray scale modulation is performed.

In this embodiment however the fourth sub scan line Yn is omitted. Further the N channel FET forming the resetting transistor Q is changed into the P channel FET. The gate of the resetting transistor Q formed of this P channel FET is connected to the first sub scan line Yn. The value of the first scan signal SCn output to the first sub scan line Yn is rendered tertiary. That is to say the potential of the first scan signal SCn can be plus so that only the switching transistor Q becomes conductive zero so that both the switching transistor Q and the resetting transistor Q become non conductive and minus so that only the resetting transistor Q becomes conductive.

In this case therefore the same effects as those in the above described embodiments can be obtained. Further the size of the pixel circuit can be miniaturized and the aperture ratio thereof increases by the space for the omitted fourth sub scan line Yn.

In the first embodiment where the time ratio gray scale modulation is performed resetting is performed after the predetermined time by using the resetting transistor Q. This method can be used for another type of time ratio gray scale modulation described below. That is to say for writing a data voltage into all the pixel circuits a reverse bias voltage is applied to the counter electrode the cathode side of the organic EL element . After the data voltage writing is finished a forward bias voltage is applied to the counter electrode side of the organic EL element whereby a current with a level corresponding to the data voltage is transmitted. After a predetermined time elapsed another reverse bias voltage is applied to the counter electrode side of the organic EL element whereby resetting is performed.

In the above described embodiments the suitable effects are obtained by using the pixel circuit as the electronic circuit. However the electronic circuit may drive another light emission element other than the organic EL element . That is to say the electronic circuit may drive an LED an FED and so forth.

Although the organic EL element has been used in the above described embodiments an inorganic EL element may be used. That is to say an inorganic EL display including the inorganic EL element may be used.

According to the present invention adequate display quality can be achieved by a small amount of electrical power.

