---

title: Throttling electronic communications from one or more senders
abstract: A number and/or frequency of electronic data communications received from a sender or group of senders during a period of time may be monitored (e.g., counted). When more than a threshold number of electronic communications are communicated by the sender during the period of time, an ability of the sender to communicate messages may be affected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07788329&OS=07788329&RS=07788329
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 07788329
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060112
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 876 064 filed Jun. 8 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 032 023 and entitled Throttling Electronic Communications From One or More Senders which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 749 593 filed Dec. 28 2000 now abandoned and entitled Throttling Electronic Communications From One or More Senders which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 204 574 filed May 16 2000. All of the prior applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to throttling electronic communications from one or more senders.

Electronic mail E mail allows people to communicate with others around the world using the Internet. The growth of the Internet has resulted in an increased amount of spam or junk e mail. Spam and junk e mail includes unsolicited and or unwelcome e mail that is sent to Internet users.

In one general aspect a number and or frequency of electronic data communications received from a sender or group of senders during a period of time may be monitored e.g. counted . When more than a threshold number of electronic communications are communicated by the sender or group of senders during the period of time and ability of that sender or group of senders to communicate messages may be affected.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example monitoring communications may include counting a number of electronic communications communicated by the sender that require concurrently open connections. Affecting the ability of the sender to communicate may include terminating at least one connection when the sender communicates more than the threshold number of electronic communications requiring concurrently open connections during the period of time. The sender may include more than one electronic communication generating machine and the period of time may be configurable. In addition the electronic communication may be received at an intermediary located between a sender and an intended recipient of the electronic communication. The sender may be identified at the intermediary and the electronic communication may be changed to reflect information identifying the sender that is collected at the intermediary. The number of electronic communications communicated by a sender may be counted based on the information identifying the sender as reflected by the changed electronic communication. At least one connection of the sender may be terminated when more than the threshold number of electronic communications are communicated by the sender during the period of time.

These features may be implemented using for example a method or a process a device an apparatus or a system or software stored on a computer medium.

For illustrative purposes describe a communications system for implementing techniques for transferring files between subscribers of a host complex. For brevity several elements in the figures described below are represented as monolithic entities. However as would be understood by one skilled in the art these elements each may include numerous interconnected computers and components designed to perform a set of specified operations and or dedicated to a particular geographical region.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging data between a client system and a host system through a communications link . The client system typically includes one or more client devices and or client controllers and the host system typically includes one or more host devices and or host controllers . For example the client system or the host system may include one or more general purpose computers e.g. personal computers one or more special purpose computers e.g. devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the client system or the host system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The client system and the host system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as for example one or more LANs Local Area Networks and or one or more WANs Wide Area Networks .

The client device or the host controller is generally capable of executing instructions under the command of a client controller or a host controller . The client device or the host device is connected to the client controller or the host controller by a wired or wireless data pathway or capable of delivering data.

The client device the client controller the host device and the host controller each typically includes one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a client device or a host device is a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions.

An example of client controller or a host controller is a software application loaded on the client device or the host device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the client device or the host device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the client device or the host device to interact and operate as described. The client controller and the host controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the client device or the host device .

The communications link typically includes a delivery network making a direct or indirect communication between the client system and the host system irrespective of physical separation. Examples of a delivery network include the Internet the World Wide Web WANs LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. PSTN ISDN and xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanism for carrying data. The communications link may include communication pathways that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks described above. Each of the communication pathways may include for example a wired wireless cable or satellite communication pathway.

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the host system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to the host system and the communications link of respectively. Likewise the client system of typically has attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the client system of .

The client device typically includes a general purpose computer having an internal or external storage for storing data and programs such as an operating system e.g. DOS Windows Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows 2000 Windows NT OS 2 and Linux and one or more application programs. Examples of application programs include authoring applications e.g. word processing database programs spreadsheet programs and graphics programs capable of generating documents or other electronic content client applications e.g. AOL client CompuServe client AIM client AOL TV client and ISP client capable of communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic content and browser applications e.g. Netscape s Navigator and Microsoft s Internet Explorer capable of rendering standard Internet content.

The general purpose computer also includes a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions in response to commands from the client controller . In one implementation the client controller includes one or more of the application programs installed on the internal or external storage of the general purpose computer . In another implementation the client controller includes application programs externally stored in and executed by one or more device s external to the general purpose computer .

The general purpose computer typically will include a communication device for sending and receiving data. One example of the communication device is a modem. Other examples include a transceiver a set top box a communication card a satellite dish an antenna or another network adapter capable of transmitting and receiving data over the communications link through a wired or wireless data pathway . The general purpose computer also may include a TV television tuner for receiving television programming in the form of broadcast satellite and or cable TV signals. As a result the client device can selectively and or simultaneously display network content received by communications device and television programming content received by the TV tuner .

The general purpose computer typically will include an input output interface to enable a wired or wireless connection to various peripheral devices . Examples of peripheral devices include but are not limited to a mouse a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a keyboard a display monitor with or without a touch screen input and or a TV remote control for receiving information from and rendering information to subscribers. Other examples may include voice recognition and synthesis devices.

Although illustrates devices such as a mobile telephone a PDA and a TV remote control as being peripheral to the general purpose computer in another implementation such devices may themselves include the functionality of the general purpose computer and operate as the client device . For example the mobile phone or the PDA may include computing and networking capabilities and may function as a client device by accessing the delivery network and communicating with the host system . Furthermore the client system may include one some or all of the components and devices described above.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server for enabling access by subscribers and routing communications between the client system and other elements of the host device . The host device also includes various host complexes such as the depicted OSP Online Service Provider host complex and IM Instant Messaging host complex . To enable access to these host complexes by subscribers the client system may include communication software for example an OSP client application and an IM client application. The OSP and IM communication software applications are designed to facilitate the subscriber s interactions with the respective services and in particular may provide access to all the services available within the respective host complexes. For example Instant Messaging allows a subscriber to use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the Web.

Typically the OSP host complex supports different services such as email discussion groups chat news services and Internet access. The OSP host complex is generally designed with an architecture that enables the machines within the OSP host complex to communicate with each other certain protocols i.e. standards formats conventions rules and structures being employed to enable the transfer of data. The OSP host complex ordinarily employs one or more OSP protocols and custom dialing engines to enable access by selected client applications. The OSP host complex may define one or more specific protocols for each service based on a common underlying proprietary protocol.

The IM host complex is generally independent of the OSP host complex and supports instant messaging services irrespective of a subscriber s network or Internet access. Thus the IM host complex allows subscribers to send and receive instant messages whether or not they have access to any particular ISP. The IM host complex may support associated services such as administrative matters advertising directory services chat and interest groups related to the instant messaging. The IM host complex has an architecture that enables all of the machines within the IM host complex to communicate with each other. To transfer data the IM host complex employs one or more standard or exclusive IM protocols.

The host device may include one or more gateways that connect and therefore link complexes such as the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway . The OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway may directly or indirectly link the OSP host complex with the IM host complex through a wired or wireless pathway. Ordinarily when used to facilitate a link between complexes the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway are privy to information regarding a protocol anticipated by a destination complex which enables any necessary protocol conversion to be performed incident to the transfer of data from one complex to another. For instance the OSP host complex and IM host complex may use different protocols such that transferring data between the complexes requires protocol conversion by or at the request of the OSP host complex gateway and or the IM host complex gateway .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in . describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of OSP host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an OSP application for communicating with servers in the OSP host complex using OSP protocols that may or may not be exclusive or proprietary. The client controller also may include applications such as an IM client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with the IM host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as OSP host complex and IM host complex . The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to one or more of these elements.

The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are typically connected through one or more OSP host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may generally perform protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between one or more of the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

The OSP host complex supports a set of services to be accessed through and or performed by from one or more servers located internal to and external from the OSP host complex . Servers external to the OSP host complex may communicate using the Internet . Servers internal to the OSP complex may be arranged in one or more configurations. For example servers may be arranged in large centralized clusters identified as farms or in localized clusters identified as pods .

More specifically farms are groups of servers located at centralized locations within the OSP host complex . Farms generally are dedicated to providing particular functionality and services to subscribers and clients from a centralized location regardless of the location of the subscriber or client. Farms are particularly useful for providing services that depend upon other remotely located or performed processes and services for information such as for example chat email instant messaging news newsgroups search stock updates and weather. Thus farms tend to rely on connections with external resources such as the Internet and or other servers within the OSP host complex .

By contrast to farms pods are clusters of localized servers that provide some services offered by the OSP host complex from a location local to the service or information recipient which reduces and avoids time delays and congestion inherent in centralized processing. Each pod includes one or more interrelated servers capable of operating together to provide one or more services offered by the OSP host complex in a geographically localized manner with the servers of a pod generally operating independently of resources external to the pod . A pod may cache content received from external sources such as farms or the Internet making frequently requested information readily available to the local service or information recipients served by the pod . In this way pods are particularly useful in providing services that are independent of other processes and servers such as for example routing to other localized resources or recipients providing access to keywords and geographically specific content providing access to routinely accessed information and downloading certain software and graphical interface updates with reduced processing time and congestion. The determination of which servers and processes are located in the pod is made by the OSP according to load distribution frequency of requests demographics and other factors.

In addition to farms and pods the implementation of also includes one or more non podded and non farmed servers . In general the servers may be dedicated to performing a particular service or information that relies on other processes and services for information and may be directly or indirectly connected to resources outside of the OSP host complex such as the Internet and the IM host complex through an OSP gateway within OSP host complex gateway . In the event that subscriber usage of a particular service or information of the servers becomes relatively high those servers may be integrated into a farm or pod as appropriate.

In the implementation of one particular exemplary pod is shown in more detail. Pod includes a routing processor . In a packet based implementation the client system may generate information requests convert the requests into data packets sequence the data packets perform error checking and other packet switching techniques and transmit the data packets to the routing processor . Upon receiving data packets from the client system the routing processor may directly or indirectly route the data packets to a specified destination within or outside of the OSP host complex . In general the routing processor will examine an address field of a data request use a mapping table to determine the appropriate destination for the data request and direct the data request to the appropriate destination.

For example in the event that a data request from the client system can be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request to a local server in the pod . In the event that the data request cannot be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request internally to one or more farms one or more other pods or one or more non podded servers in the OSP host complex or the routing processor may direct the data request externally to elements such as the IM host complex through an OSP pod gateway .

The routing processor also may direct data requests and or otherwise facilitate communication between the client system and the Internet through the OSP pod gateway . In one implementation the client system uses an OSP client application to convert standard Internet content and protocols into OSP protocols and vice versa where necessary. For example when a browser application transmits a request in a standard Internet protocol the OSP client application can intercept the request convert the request into an OSP protocol and send the converted request to the routing processor in the OSP host complex . The routing processor recognizes the Internet as the destination and routes the data packets to an IP Internet Protocol tunnel . The IP tunnel converts the data from the OSP protocol back into standard Internet protocol and transmits the data to the Internet . The IP tunnel also converts the data received from the Internet in the standard Internet protocol back into the OSP protocol and sends the data to the routing processor for delivery back to the client system . At the client system the OSP client application converts the data in the OSP protocol back into standard Internet content for communication with the browser application.

The IP tunnel may act as a buffer between the client system and the Internet and may implement content filtering and time saving techniques. For example the IP tunnel can check parental controls settings of the client system and request and transmit content from the Internet according to the parental control settings. In addition the IP tunnel may include a number a caches for storing frequently accessed information. If requested data is determined to be stored in the caches the IP tunnel may send the information to the client system from the caches and avoid the need to access the Internet .

In another implementation the client system may use standard Internet protocols and formatting to access pods and the Internet . For example the subscriber can use an OSP TV client application having an embedded browser application installed on the client system to generate a request in standard Internet protocol such as HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol . In a packet based implementation data packets may be encapsulated inside a standard Internet tunneling protocol such as for example UDP User Datagram Protocol and routed to a web tunnel . The web tunnel may be a L2TP Layer Two Tunneling Protocol tunnel capable of establishing a point to point protocol PPP session with the client system . The web tunnel provides a gateway to the routing processor within the pod the Internet and a web proxy .

The web proxy can look up subscriber information from the IP address of the client system to determine demographic information such as the subscriber s parental control settings. In this way the web proxy can tailor the subscriber s content and user interfaces. The web proxy can also perform caching functions to store certain URLs Uniform Resource Locators and other electronic content so that the web proxy can locally deliver information to the client system and avoid the need to access the Internet in the event that data requested by the client system has been cached.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in . describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex utilizing exclusive IM protocols. The client controller also may include applications such as an OSP client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with elements such as the OSP host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as the OSP host complex and IM host complex login server is also capable of authorizing access by the client system and those elements. The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to one or more of the elements. The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are connected through one or more host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may perform any protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

To access the IM host complex to begin an instant messaging session the client system establishes a connection to the login server . The login server typically determines whether the particular subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex by verifying a subscriber identification and password. If the subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex the login server employs a hashing technique on the subscriber s screen name to identify a particular IM server for use during the subscriber s session. The login server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular IM server gives the client system an encrypted key i.e. a cookie and breaks the connection. The client system then uses the IP address to establish a connection to the particular IM server through the communications link and obtains access to that IM server using the encrypted key. Typically the client system will be equipped with a winsock API Application Programming Interface that enables the client system to establish an open TCP connection to the IM server .

Once a connection to the IM server has been established the client system may directly or indirectly transmit data to and access content from the IM server and one or more associated domain servers . The IM server supports the fundamental instant messaging services and the domain servers may support associated services such as for example administrative matters directory services chat and interest groups. The domain servers can be used to lighten the load placed on the IM server by assuming responsibility for some of the services within the IM host complex . By accessing the IM server and or the domain server a subscriber can use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the Web.

In the implementation of IM server is directly or indirectly connected to a routing gateway . The routing gateway facilitates the connection between the IM server and one or more alert multiplexors . For example routing gateway may serve as a link minimization tool or hub to connect several IM servers to several alert multiplexors . In general an alert multiplexor maintains a record of alerts and subscribers registered to receive the alerts.

Once the client system is connected to the alert multiplexor a subscriber can register for and or receive one or more types of alerts. The connection pathway between the client system and the alert multiplexor is determined by employing a hashing technique at the IM server to identify the particular alert multiplexor to be used for the subscriber s session. Once the particular multiplexor has been identified the IM server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular alert multiplexor and gives the client system an encrypted key i.e. a cookie used to gain access to the identified multiplexor . The client system then uses the IP address to connect to the particular alert multiplexor through the communication link and obtains access to the alert multiplexor using the encrypted key.

The alert multiplexor is connected to an alert gate that like the IM host complex gateway is capable of performing the necessary protocol conversions to enable communication with the OSP host complex . The alert gate is the interface between the IM host complex and the physical servers such as servers in the OSP host complex where state changes are occurring. In general the information regarding state changes will be gathered and used by the IM host complex . The alert multiplexor also may communicate with the OSP host complex through the IM gateway for example to provide the servers and subscribers of the OSP host complex with certain information gathered from the alert gate .

The alert gate can detect an alert feed corresponding to a particular type of alert. The alert gate may include a piece of code alert receive code capable of interacting with another piece of code alert broadcast code on the physical server where a state change occurs. In general the alert receive code installed on the alert gate instructs the alert broadcast code installed on the physical server to send an alert feed to the alert gate upon the occurrence of a particular state change. Thereafter upon detecting an alert feed the alert gate contacts the alert multiplexor which in turn informs the appropriate client system of the detected alert feed.

In the implementation of the IM host complex also includes a subscriber profile server connected to a database for storing large amounts of subscriber profile data. The subscriber profile server may be used to enter retrieve edit manipulate or otherwise process subscriber profile data. In one implementation a subscriber s profile data includes for example the subscriber s buddy list alert preferences designated stocks identified interests geographic location and other demographic data. The subscriber may enter edit and or delete profile data using an installed IM client application on the client system to interact with the subscriber profile server .

Because the subscriber s data is stored in the IM host complex the subscriber does not have to reenter or update such information in the event that the subscriber accesses the IM host complex using a new or different client system . Accordingly when a subscriber accesses the IM host complex the IM server can instruct the subscriber profile server to retrieve the subscriber s profile data from the database and to provide for example the subscriber s buddy list to the IM server and the subscriber s alert preferences to the alert multiplexor . The subscriber profile server also may communicate with other servers in the OSP host complex to share subscriber profile data with other services. Alternatively user profile data may be saved locally on the client device .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways enabling communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and may illustrate one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in . describes several aspects of one implementation of the host system in greater detail focusing primarily on one particular implementation of the login server and IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the IM host complex . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex utilizing exclusive IM protocols.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications between client systems and various elements of the host system including elements such as the IM host complex and the OSP host complex login server is also capable of authorizing access by the client system and those elements. The IM host complex includes an IM server network a routing gateway an alert multiplexor network and one or more alert gates . The IM server network may include an interconnected network of IM servers and the alert multiplexor network may include an interconnected network of alert multiplexors. In the implementation of the IM server network and the alert multiplexor network are interconnected by a routing gateway that serves as a common hub to reduce the number of connections. Each IM server within IM server network can directly or indirectly communicate and exchange information with one or more of the alert multiplexors in the alert multiplexor network . Each of the alert multiplexors in the alert multiplexor network may be connected to several alert gates that receive different types of alerts.

During a session a subscriber typically will be assigned to one IM server in the IM server network and to one alert multiplexor in the alert multiplexor network based on one or more hashing techniques. In one implementation for example each IM server in the IM server network may be dedicated to serving a particular set of registered subscribers. Because all of the IM servers can communicate with each other all subscribers can communicate with each other through instant messaging. However the IM servers and the alert multiplexors are capable of storing subscriber information and other electronic content that may be accessed by the other IM servers and alert multiplexors. Thus in another implementation each alert multiplexor in the alert multiplexor network may be dedicated to storing information about a particular set or subset of alerts. Because all of the alert multiplexors can communicate with each other all registered subscribers can receive all types of alerts. This networking arrangement enables the load to be distributed among the various servers in the IM host complex while still enabling a subscriber to communicate share information or otherwise interact with other subscribers and servers in the IM host complex .

Referring to an exemplary logical system for transferring electronic data includes a sender connected through an intermediary e.g. a proxy server to an intended recipient . The sender and the intended recipient may be any known or described client device client controller and or client system such as those described in with respect to items and . The intermediary may be any known or described host device host controller and or host system such as those described in with respect to items and . Intermediary is generally located at a central location and may be podded. Intermediary typically interfaces more than one sender . The sender the intermediary and or the intended recipient may include any known or described network. As such the sender the intermediary and the intended recipient may be configured and arranged as described with respect to corresponding devices systems and networks of .

Referring to exemplary features of the intermediary include a switch connected through a proxy mail server to a mail server . The switch may be any known device or controller capable of diverting electronic content. The proxy mail server and or the mail server may be any type of device or controller capable of functioning as described below.

As shown in the sender may include a user connected through a dial up network to an IP tunnel . The user may be any known or described client device and or client controller. The dial up network may be any known or described network. The IP tunnel may be any known or described IP tunnel web tunnel and or web proxy.

The intermediary includes the switch for diverting electronic data to a proxy mail server . The switch runs redirection software e.g. Layer redirection software that enables the switch to examine a data packet and to redirect the data packet to a particular server based on one or more attributes of the data packet. In one implementation the switch is configured to divert all traffic sent on a particular port e.g. port for mail to a proxy server e.g. proxy mail server . The proxy mail server includes an identifier application program interface API A a counter throttle API B and a name look up API C.

The identifier API A is configured to identify the sender by for example identifying the sender s internet protocol IP address. In one implementation the identifier API A is configured to identify the IP address from the connection established between the sender and the intermediary . The identifier API A of the proxy mail server may connect to a domain name server DNS that is capable of translating domain names into IP addresses and vice versa. However other methods of identifying the IP address or identity of the sender are also readily available.

The counter throttle API B is configured to monitor the number of times a particular sender has connected to the proxy mail server . The counter throttle API B may be configured to increment a counter as new connections are attempted or established and to decrement the counter as existing connections are dropped. In one implementation the counter throttle API B prevents the establishing of additional connections above a certain threshold number which may be configurable. In other implementations the counter throttle API B may prevent connections exceeding a certain threshold from sending mail or may alternatively send information to another entity e.g. a system manager concerning connections by or messages from senders that would exceed the threshold number. The counter throttle API B may take rate into consideration by discounting or crediting connection attempts made before a fixed or configurable time has passed or by judging sender activity based on temporal considerations.

The name lookup API C is configured to identify the screen name of the sender and to tag mail sent by the sender . In one implementation the name lookup API C identifies the screen name of the sender from the sender s IP address and tags mail sent by the sender with the sender s screen name.

In one implementation an IP address of the sender is identified a corresponding screen name is determined based on the identified IP address using a DNS service at a local or remote database and the screen name identifier is appended to the electronic data being sent e.g. x apparently from . The screenname identifier may or may not be removed later as it may be useful for authentication by recipients and may be helpful in identifying system abusers.

The proxy mail server is connected to one or more routers . The routers are connected to a mail server and direct mail from the proxy mail server to the mail server . The mail server includes a filter API A and a security API B. The filter API A is configured to discard mail according to various criteria including the identifiers appended to mail received by mail server . The security API B is configured to track subscribers that are sending spam based on the identifiers appended to the mail and to affect the accounts of such subscribers.

The intended recipient includes a recipient connected through the Internet to the intermediary . The recipient may be any known or described client device or client controller. The Internet may be the public Internet the World Wide Web or any other network system such as networks and .

Referring to an exemplary electronic data unit includes an identifier appended to a sender message . In one implementation the identifier is a tag e.g. apparently from X where X is the screen name of the sender and the message is the original message e.g. e mail from the sender . The identifier may be appended to the front of the electronic data message as shown or it may be appended to the end of the electronic data message . The identifier also may be added to the electronic content of the message so as to prevent distortation or manipulation of the identifier. In this manner confidence can be placed in the veracity of the identifier appended to an electronic data message.

Referring to an exemplary process may be performed by an intermediary e.g. intermediary . The intermediary receives electronic data communicated from a sender to an intended recipient step . The electronic data may be for example an e mail or a search request. Based on the electronic data received the intermediary identifies the sender step as described for example with respect to . The intermediary then appends information identifying the sender and forwards the electronic data to the intended recipient along with appended information identifying the sender step as described for example with respect to .

Referring to an exemplary process for identifying the sender of electronic data step of is performed by determining an address of the electronic data source step and then determining an identifier for the sender based on the address step . The address of the electronic data source may be for example an IP address. The address also may be some other identifying criterion or information e.g. the name of the server or the sending machine . The address may be determined through header information provided along with the electronic data whether inserted by the sender or by some protocol driven application. The address also may be determined based on handshaking and other protocols used for standard communications e.g. Level III packet transfer . The identifier may be for example the screen name of the sender or the IP address of the machine from which the message was generated or sent.

Referring to an exemplary process for appending identifying information to electronic data and forwarding that electronic data step of includes having the intermediary change the electronic data to reflect information identifying the sender step . For instance identifier information may be added or appended to transform the electronic data into an electronic data unit such as that described with respect to . The intermediary determines whether the electronic data should be blocked based on the identifier information step as will be described with respect to . If it is not necessary to block the electronic data the intermediary forwards the electronic data to the intended recipient step . If the intermediary determines that the electronic data should be blocked the intermediary blocks the electronic data and may also block future data received from the sender for a configurable period of time step .

Other processes are also available for deciding whether to block electronic data based on appended source identifiers. For instance electronic data may be blocked by merely comparing the identifier information appended to the electronic data against some stored data or listing of identifiers to be blocked.

While the techniques are described above in conjunction with stopping junk e mail these techniques may be effective for other purposes. For instance the described techniques may be used to stop spam postings to newsgroups.

Referring to an intermediary for communicating electronic data relating to news includes a switch connected through a proxy traffic server to a news server . The switch may be any device or controller capable of diverting electronic content. The proxy traffic server and the news server may be any device or controller as described herein. In one implementation the switch diverts newsgroup content intended for a news server to the proxy traffic server . The proxy traffic server may perform filtering e.g. based on number of specified recipients and or news content and or may terminate connections to throttle mass postings to newsgroups using processes similar to those described with respect to . In such a system and method traffic on port news postings may be proxied.

Furthermore although specific implementations are described above other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

