---

title: Iron-based contrast agent
abstract: A contrast agent having a metal core and an inert shell forming a single cluster is disclosed. The metal core is iron-based and has an octa-nuclear structure. It is surrounded by a cluster of pyrazolate groups. Ligands can be attached to the cluster to provide water solubility and to target specific tissues or provide specific contrast properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07807137&OS=07807137&RS=07807137
owner: University of Puerto Rico
number: 07807137
owner_city: San Juan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060214
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 60 113 537 filed Dec. 22 1998 and to U.S. utility application Ser. No. 09 470 504 filed Dec. 22 1999 and 10 600 267 filed Jun. 20 2003. Each of these is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The claimed invention was made with Government support under grant number 5506GM08102 30S1 awarded by the National Institutes of Health NIH . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates generally to contrast agents that are used to enhance differentiation between adjacent tissues and organs in nuclear magnetic resonance imaging.

Medical diagnostic imaging has evolved as an important non invasive tool for medical diagnosis. Nuclear magnetic resonance imaging MRI and computerized tomography CT are two of the most widely used imaging methods. MRI generally relies on the relaxation properties of excited hydrogen nuclei in water. When the tissues or organs to be imaged are placed in a powerful uniform magnetic field the spins of the hydrogen protons within the tissues or organs align along the axis of the magnetic field.

The tissue is then briefly exposed to pulses of electromagnetic energy RF pulse in a plane perpendicular to the magnetic field causing some of the magnetically aligned hydrogen nuclei to assume a temporary non aligned high energy state. As the high energy nuclei relax and realign they emit energy which is recorded to provide information about their environment. The realignment with the magnetic field is termed longitudinal relaxation and the time in milliseconds required for a certain percentage of the tissue nuclei to realign is termed Time or T. This is the basis of T weighted imaging. T weighted imaging relies upon local dephasing of spins following the application of the transverse energy pulse the transverse relaxation time is termed Time or T. Both T and T weighted images are acquired for most medical examinations.

MRI takes advantage of the fact that water relaxation characteristics vary from tissue to tissue and this tissue dependent relaxation effect provides image contrast which in turn allows the identification of various distinct tissue types. In order to create an image spatial information must be recorded along with the received tissue relaxation information. A computer applies an inverse Fourier transform to this information so that it is converted into real space to obtain the desired image. This produces detailed anatomical information of the tissues or organs under inspection.

A modern MRI scanner will include a complex library of RF pulse sequences each of which is optimized to provide image contrast based on the chemical sensitivity of MRI. The amount of time between successive pulse sequences is commonly referred to as the repetition time TR . Another measurement used to characterize the RF pulse sequences is the echo time TE . By varying these two parameters the MRI scanner can produce T emphasized images or T emphasized images. A relatively short TR on the order of a hundred to several hundred milliseconds when combined with a relatively short TE on the order of ten milliseconds typically will produce T emphasized image. A relatively longer TR on the order of a thousand milliseconds or longer when combined with a relatively longer TE on the order of ten to a hundred milliseconds will produce a T emphasized image.

In order to increase the signal to noise ratio SNR a typical MRI scan is repeated at a constant rate for a predetermined number of times and the data is subsequently averaged. The signal amplitude recorded for any given scan is proportional to the number of spins that have decayed back to equilibrium in the time period between successive scans. Thus regions with rapidly relaxing spins i.e. those regions comprising spins having short T values will recover all of their signal amplitude between successive scans. The measured intensities of the regions with long T and short T will reflect the spin density which correlates with the region s water content. Regions with long T values as compared to the time between scans will progressively lose signal until a steady state condition is reached. At the steady state condition the signal will be indistinguishable from background noise.

Although MRI can be performed without the administration of contrast agents the ability to enhance the visualization of internal tissues and organs has resulted in their widespread use. Paramagnetic contrast agents effect a change in the relaxation characteristics of protons. In other words they can serve to modulate T and or T values. This is particularly useful for imaging adjacent soft tissues which may be histologically different but magnetically similar. An MRI scan obtained without the use of a contrast agent may not substantially differentiate between such adjacent soft tissues. If a contrast agent is localized in one of the two adjacent tissues however the imaging contrast can be substantially improved.

When designing or selecting contrast agents two fundamental properties must be considered a biocompatibility and b proton relaxation enhancement. Biocompatibility is influenced by several factors including toxicity stability thermodynamic and kinetic pharmacokinetics and biodistribution. Proton relaxation enhancement and relaxivity is chiefly governed by the metal employed in the agent the rotational correlation times and the accessibility of the metal to surrounding water molecules which permits the rapid exchange of metal associated water molecules with the bulk solvent. The contrast agents most widely used are based upon ligand stabilized gadolinium ions. Commercially available examples of these include Omniscan gadodiamide which is commercially available from Amersham Health and ProHance gadoteridol which is commercially available from Bracco Diagnostics. Another widely used contrast agent is based upon sugar coated iron oxide magnetite FeO nanoparticles. This is commercially available from Mallinckrodt as GastroMARK ferumoxsil . Another iron based contrast agent is available from Berlex as Feridex ferumoxides .

This invention relates to a metal based cubane structure contained in an octanuclear complex which can be used as a contrast agent. More specifically this complex can be defined as Fe O 4 R pz L where 

 4 R pz represents a bridging pyrazolate ligand substituted at the 4 position by a group R where R is any atom including hydrogen or group of atoms attached by a single bond to the pyrazole for example organic groups halogens alkyls aryls and other examples given below and

L is any terminal ligand such as and for example only F Cl Br NCO NCS alkyl aryl alkoxy or any anionic or neutral ligand or any combination of four terminal ligands.

One object of the present invention is to provide a contrast agent that is more physiologically acceptable to the human body. To this end iron atoms are used to provide paramagnetic properties instead of gadolinium.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a contrast agent that can be designed to target specific tissues or organs. Specifically in the above formula defining the composition of the complex the R group as well as the terminal ligand L can be selected so that concentrations of the contrast agent are localized in a particular tissue or organ which improves imaging of that tissue or organ.

According to one aspect of the invention a water soluble contrast agent is especially suitable for use in magnetic resonance imaging. The contrast agent is made of an octanuclear iron pyrazolate cluster that reduces T of water by a factor of at least two with a concentration of 1 mM. The octanuclear iron pyrazolate cluster is given by the formula Fe O 4 R L where the portion of the compound identified as O is a quadruply bridging oxygen atom where the portion of the compound identified as 4 R pz is a bridging pyrazole ring having a substituent group R bonded at the 4 position of the pyrazole ring and the portion of the compound identified as L is a terminal ligand.

According to another aspect of the invention the substitutent group R is a hydrophilic group. It can be selected from the following CHCHOH CHCHCHOH COCH COCHCH.

According to another aspect of the invention the substituent group R is a hydrophobic group and the contrast agent includes a surfactant for water solubility. The R group can be selected from the following Cl Br I CH CHCHCl CHCHBr CHCHCHCl and CHCHCHBr. The surfactant can be selected from the following a cyclodextrin and polyoxyethylene products of hydrogenated vegetable oils polyethoxylated castor oils or polyethoxylated hydrogenated castor oil.

According to further aspects of the invention the water soluble contrast agent also reduces T by a factor of at least two with a concentration of 1 mM. It reduces T and T by a factor of at least ten with a concentration of 2 mM.

According to still further aspects of the invention the substitutent group R is iodine so that the water soluble contrast agent exhibits contrast enhancement in computer tomography.

An octanuclear iron pyrazolate cluster is used to provide paramagnetic properties in a contrast agent. The cluster has a core which is the source of the paramagnetic properties encapsulated in a protective shell. The structural integrity of the present cluster is a function of its composition. Specifically the desired paramagnetic properties are a function of the metal core while the connections required for the construction of variants take place at the outer inert shell. Further details of the octanuclear iron pyrazolate cluster which is used to provide the paramagnetic properties in a contrast agent are now described. This is followed by a description of methods of preparing a number of variants and then specific results from the use of the clusters as contrast agents.

To achieve paramagnetic properties in a compound that is stable and has the versatility of accepting various groups metal atoms must be complexed by appropriate ligands. More specifically a complex comprising eight metal atoms protected inside a chemically inert shell. This complex can be used as a contrast agent in magnetic resonance imaging MRI applications.

 4 R pz represents a bridging pyrazolate ligand substituted at the 4 position by a group R where R is any atom or group of atoms attached by a single bond to the pyrazole for example organic groups halogens alkyls aryls and other examples given below and

L is any terminal ligand such as and for example only F Cl Br NCO NCS alkyl aryl alkoxy or any anionic or neutral ligand or any combination of four terminal ligands. As used hereinafter a bridging pyrazolato group comprises any pyrazole either substituted or unsubstituted. The complex can be in a racemic an enantiomerically enriched or an enantiomerically pure form.

 represents a bridging group i.e. a bridging pz or a bridging atom such as an oxygen atom. This specific composition contains an octanuclear Fecore protected inside a pyrazolate coating. It is shown in and .

Manipulation of the solubility of the inventive complex is possible through substitution at the outer shell. This can be done through substitution at either the positions of the terminal ligands or the 4 position of the pyrazoles. A pyrazole ring substituted at the four position is shown in .

While one preferred form of the complex is hydrophobic i.e. insoluble in water but soluble in a large number of organic solvents it can easily become water soluble by attaching hydrophilic groups to its surface through such substitutions. A second method to achieve water soluble preparations of the Fe complex is through the use of surfactants. Water soluble derivatives of the inventive complex are particularly useful as MRI contrast agents. Methods of making specific formulations are now described.

The starting materials that can be used to prepare the Fe O pz Clcomplex defined by formula I include the following commercially available materials anhydrous ferric chloride FeCl pyrazole CHN pzH and triethylamine. Also sodium pyrazolate Na pz or potassium pyrazolate K pz can be readily prepared from pyrazole and sodium hydride or potassium hydride. Either pyrazolate works equally well. Other common reagents can be used as pyrazolate transfer agents in the preparation of formula 1 .

A typical preparation of the example is as follows To a suspension of FeCl 3.120 g 19.23 mmol in CHCl 200 mL was added solid Napz 2.598 g 28.85 mmol under an Ar atmosphere with stirring. To the resulting dark brown solution triethylamine 1.340 mL 9.617 mmol was added dropwise with stirring under argon. After 20 h the dark brownish red reaction mixture was exposed to air sealed again and kept stirring for an additional 24 h period. After filtration an unidentified dark brown solid a minor product was disposed and the dark red filtrate was allowed to slowly evaporate to dryness at 23 C. under air. The resulting solid was washed with acetone 50 mL and recrystallized twice from CHCl 140 mL and 70 mL . A dark red crystalline solid was collected by filtration washed with methanol and dried. Yield 1.07 g 30 . b To a suspension of FeCl 0.910 g 5.61 mmol in CHCl 43 mL prepared under an argon atmosphere was added solid pyrazole 1.146 g 16.83 mmol under air with stirring. An orange crystalline solid of Fe pzH Clwas formed within 60 seconds. Triethylamine 1.955 mL 14.03 mmol was added dropwise with stirring. All orange solid was dissolved and the reaction mixture turned dark red. After stirring for 13 hours a dark brownish red mixture was filtered. A solid portion was disposed and the resulting dark red solution was let to evaporate slowly to dryness at 23 C. The resulting solid was washed with methanol 10 mL and recrystallized from CHCl 22 mL under air. The obtained dark red crystalline solid 0.469 g was recrystallized from another portion of CHCl 15 mL under the nitrogen atmosphere. Big dark red crystals were collected by filtration washed with methanol and dried. Testing demonstrated that this was the desired product.

A typical preparation of the example is as follows To a suspension of FeCl 0.197 g 1.21 mmol in CHCl 30 mL prepared under an argon atmosphere was added solid 4 Cl pyrazole 0.374 g 3.64 mmol under air with stirring. To the pale red solution was added dropwise with stirring triethylamine 0.423 mL 3.04 mmol . After stirring for 5 min a dark red mixture was filtered and liquid part was placed into a Schlenk tube and stirred under nitrogen for 2 days when the stirring was interrupted. In 2 months regular octahedral dark orange crystals of the product together with colorless needles of triethylammonium chloride were collected. Then the solid mixture was recrystallized from acetone 15 mL and subsequently from CHCl 4 mL . Product was collected by filtration washed with methanol and dried. Testing demonstrated that this was the desired product.

A typical preparation of the example is as follows To a suspension of FeCl 0.967 g 5.96 mmol in CHCl 200 mL prepared under an argon atmosphere was added dropwise 4 Me pyrazole 1.48 mL 17.9 mmol under air with stirring. To the pale red solution was added dropwise with stirring triethylamine 2.08 mL 14.9 mmol . After stirring for 20 hours a dark orange mixture was filtered. Testing demonstrated that this was the desired result.

A typical preparation of the example is as follows To a suspension of FeBr 0.371 g 1.26 mmol in CHCl 15 mL prepared under an argon atmosphere was added solid pyrazole 0.256 g 3.77 mmol under air with stirring. To the red solution was added dropwise with stirring triethylamine 0.437 mL 3.14 mmol . After stirring for 10 Min the mixture was filtered and filtrate was placed into a Schlenk tube and stirred under nitrogen for 6 days. The volume of the reaction mixture was reduced to 5 mL under vacuum stirred overnight and filtered under nitrogen. The filtrate was evaporated to dryness washed with methanol 22 mL and recrystallized from diethyl ether 40 mL and subsequently from CHCl 6 mL . Product was collected by filtration washed with methanol and dried

Preparation of Other Fe III Complexes can be Obtained by Substitution of the terminal ligand Cl or Br and or by substitution on the 4 position of the pyrazole groups. Specifically the terminal ligands can be substituted by F Br SCN OCN OPh where Ph is a phenyl group either substituted or unsubstituted i.e. CH CHR CHX py where py is a pyridine group CHN or substituted pyridine group i.e. CHNR CHNX or a metal or metal complex such as Ag Cu Pd or Pt. Alternatively the terminal ligand can be substituted by a bridging ligand including pyrazine or bipyridine. With the substitution of bridging ligands multiple Fe III complexes are joined.

Each of these examples includes a metal cubane core and in inert shell as shown in . The inert shell includes four terminal ligands L which can be selected to target specific tissues or organs. In addition the 4 position of the pyrazole groups can be substituted as shown in . Specifically the 4 position is substituted by a halogen including e.g. F Cl Br I or a pseudo halogen including e.g. CN . Alternatively the 4 position is substituted by an organic group which include all variations of CH CH CH CHX CHX CHX CHX CHX CHX CHX CHX CHX. The parameter n is typically less than 40. X can be F Cl Br I CN OH NH SOH POHor CHO. Two or three different groups X can be combined in the same compound.

Following the above methods a library of iron cluster compounds having different R groups at the pyrazole 4 position can be obtained. These include compounds having hydrophobic R groups such as R Cl Br Cl Br I CH CHCHCl CHCHBr CHCHCHC or CHCHCHBr. To use these as a contrast agent in medical applications they can be brought into aqueous solutions by mixing with commercially available surfactants such as cyclodextrins or polyoxyethylene products of hydrogenated vegetable oils polyethoxylated castor oils or polyethoxylated hydrogenated castor oil. Alternatively directly water soluble clusters can be prepared by the introduction of hydrophilic groups such as R CHCHOH CHCHCHOH COCHor COCHCH.

For example the R CHCHCHOH L Cl compound can prepared. Specifically a round bottomed flask is charged under an N atmosphere with 0.400 g 2.47 mmol FeClin ethanol and an ethanolic solution of 0.464 g 4.32 mmol 4 HO CH pzH and 0.093 g 4.93 mmol EtN. The solution is stirred for 24 hours in the air and the product is crushed out by EtO addition and filtered. The filtered solid is washed three times with small portions of CHCl followed by washing three times with acetone. The hygroscopic dark red solid product is dried under vacuum and stored under N. This yields a water soluble iron cluster compound.

A further advantage of the R CH OH derivatives is that they provide a route to the synthesis of targeted agents by the attachment of directing groups via the chemically functional OH to the contrast agent module.

MRI experiments demonstrate that a tenfold reduction in T of water can be achieved using these compositions. For example a 5 mM HO solution shows a contrast to noise ratio of approximately 250 exceeding the necessary enhancement for clinical imaging. This is shown in . Specifically this figure shows the contrast enhancement of the water soluble iron cluster at a 5 mM concentration in distilled water when compared to distilled water alone the solvent . The bright circle on the right near the center is the sample containing the water soluble iron cluster the grayish circle on the left near the center shows the distilled water control. Regions of interest ROI were identified on each to obtain the statistical information for the intensity of the pixels within the region. A ROI in the empty space upper left ROI with no signal was also drawn to measure the noise characteristics of the image. For the ROI in the water soluble iron cluster the measured properties were 

where mean si cluster is the mean of the signal intensity of the ROI for the enhanced image 1190.7 mean si water is the mean signal intensity of the ROI for the distilled water control 177.6 and sdnoise is the standard deviation of the ROI in the empty space 4.1 which represents a measure of the noise in the image. These values give a CNR of 247.1 for an MRI image take at a TR 200 msec and TE 10 msec.

In addition to providing good contrast to noise ration the water soluble iron cluster also provides significant T and T effect. Turning to T is plotted as a function of concentration. At zero concentration distilled water exhibits a T over 7 seconds. As the concentration of the water soluble iron cluster is increased above 1 mM T falls below 1 second. As the concentration is increased T is reduced by over a factor of 10.

Turning to T is plotted as a function of concentration. At zero concentration distilled water exhibits a T over 120 ms. As the concentration of the water soluble iron cluster is increased to 1 mM T falls well below 5 ms and remains approximately at or below 10 ms as the concentration is further increased. Thus T can be reduced by over a factor of 20.

Turning to an MRI image of vials containing various solutions are shown. In each of these figures the top most circle is a vial of solution containing an iodine derivative of the iron cluster compound Fe O 4 I pz 4 HO CH pz Cl x y 12. In the middle row the left most circle is a vial of a solution containing a gadolinium based contrast agent the middle circle is a vial containing a solution of the water soluble iron cluster at 5 mM and the right most circle is a vial containing distilled water. In the bottom row the left most circle is a vial of a solution containing a solution of the water soluble iron cluster at 0.5 mM the middle circle is a vial of a solution containing the water soluble iron cluster at 1.0 mM and the right most circle is a vial containing a solution of the water soluble iron cluster at 5.0 mM.

In each of the solutions exhibit a T effect and provide noticeable contrast with the vial containing only water.

In the gadolinium based contrast agent does not appear to provide a T effect and has brightness similar to that of the vial containing only water. The vials containing a low concentration of the water based iron cluster however exhibit a T effect.

In and as TE is increased all of the solutions containing the iron cluster exhibit noticeable contrast with the vial containing only water. The contrast is most pronounced for the longest TE of 100 shown in .

In addition to providing MRI contrast enhancement iodine containing derivatives of the Fe8 based contrast agent also provides contrast enhancement in computer tomography CT . This has the advantage of only using one contrast agent for both imaging techniques as opposed to employing two contrast agents. Suitable formulations for this purpose include Fe O 4 I 4 HO CH Cl 1 

