---

title: Self-welding fastener
abstract: A fastener device has a body member for welding and securing structural members together. The body member has a lateral bore extending between an upper flat side and a lower flat side. The sides each have a pattern of externally facing grooves communicating with the lateral bore and an exothermic material fills the patterns of grooves, the lateral bore and a radially extending bore communicating with the lateral bore. A fuse in the radial bore produces intense heat in the exothermic material to initiate an exothermic reaction to melt at least some of the body member, exothermic material, and structural members and weld the body member and structural members together. The man-portable, self-contained, reliable, fastener device permits a relatively unskilled workman to securely interconnect the structural members together at a primitive work site without requiring ancillary equipment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07448527&OS=07448527&RS=07448527
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07448527
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060414
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention relates to a device for interconnecting steel structural members together. More particularly this invention permits a relatively unskilled worker to quickly weld steel structural members together at a dry or submerged work site.

Historically secure connections between structural components have been made in many different ways. The structure may be drilled and tapped welded with conventional welding equipment or fabricated with adhesives epoxies cyanoacrylate glues etc. to secure them together. These methods of interconnection can require elaborate and complicated procedures to assemble and bring together drilling and tapping tools and fasteners welding gases and equipments or adhesive components and mixing paraphernalia respectively. The logistics and handling measures and operational procedures required for the conventional methods of connection can be time consuming and expensive. Additionally considerable skill may be required to apply these methods particularly in underwater applications.

Thus in accordance with this inventive concept a need has been recognized in the state of the art for a cost effective reliable and consistent self contained portable device for quickly welding steel structural members together in air or underwater without requiring skilled labor.

The present invention provides an apparatus and method for interconnecting structural members together. A fastener device has a body member for welding and securing the structural members together. The metal body member is provided with a lateral bore extending between an upper flat side and a lower flat side. The sides each have a pattern of externally facing grooves communicating with the lateral bore and an exothermic material fills the patterns of grooves the lateral bore and a radially extending bore communicating with the lateral bore. A fuse in the radial bore produces intense heat for the exothermic material to initiate an exothermic reaction of the exothermic material to melt at least some of the body member exothermic material and structural members and weld the body member and structural members together. The man portable self contained reliable fastener device permits a relatively unskilled workman to securely interconnect the structural members together at a primitive work site without requiring ancillary equipment. The exothermic material can be thermite and the exothermic reaction can be a thermite reaction. A thin sealing layer covers the body member fuse and thermite in the grooves and lateral bore to provide protection from adverse effects of the natural environment including water.

An object of the present invention is to provide a reliable device for and method of quickly securing iron steel structural components together.

Another object of the invention is to provide a strong and reliable interconnection between iron steel structural members that can be accomplished quickly by relatively unskilled workers.

Another object of the invention is to provide a quick and simplified interconnection for iron steel structural members in air or underwater.

Another object of the invention is to provide a self contained portable fastener device utilizing an exothermic or thermite reaction to provide quickly welded interconnection between steel structural members at a site in air or underwater.

Another object is to make a quickly welded interconnection in air or underwater without requiring additional support equipment.

Another object is to make a quickly welded interconnection between steel members at a work site in air or underwater using thermite reactions between compounds activated by an integral ignitor without requiring additional support equipment.

Another object is to provide a man portable self contained reliable fastener device permitting an unskilled workman to make secure interconnections between structural members at a primitive work site.

These and other objects of the invention will become more readily apparent from the ensuing specification when taken in conjunction with the appended claims.

Referring to fastener device of the invention has a substantially disc shaped body member having upper or first and lower or second flat sides and on opposite sides of body member respectively provided with upper or first and lower or second flat faces and . Body member can be cast or machined from iron or steel to have considerable strength and toughness for interconnecting steel or iron structures. Body member can be made in many different shapes other than the disc shape depicted and can be robustly dimensioned to interconnect and bear the loads and stresses transmitted by the structure it is to connect together it being understood that fastener device of the invention can be modifiable to accommodate a wide number of potential users and uses.

Referring also to upper flat face and lower flat face of upper and lower sides and of fastener device are sufficiently sized to present flat obstruction free areas to assure reliable interconnection of a pair of iron or steel structural members and . As shown in fastener device is being partially fit or slid between a pair of stacked I beam structural members and . The I beam structural members and present flat surfaces and that can contiguously about flat faces and of fastener device of the invention. Structural members and could be any of a considerable number of widely used load bearing structural components other than the exemplary I beams depicted so long as they present sufficiently sized flat surfaces that can contiguously abut flat faces and .

Upper side of body member has several externally facing grooves machined in it to radially extend from a first end of a lateral bore laterally extending through body member and to contain heat generating or exothermic material therein. Lateral bore may have an enlarged part at first end where it communicates with external grooves to contain additional heat generating or exothermic material as explained below. Lower side of body member also has several externally facing grooves machined in it to radially extend from a second end of lateral bore and to contain heat generating or exothermic material therein. Lateral bore may have another enlarged part at second end where it communicates with external grooves to contain additional heat generating or exothermic material as explained below.

Referring also to a radially extending bore is provided in body member to contain heat generating material as explained below. Radial bore has an outer end A having threads B or other means for engaging and securing a fuse . Fuse is sized and positioned to allow flat contiguous accommodation of flat faces and of fastener device with flat surfaces and of structural members and .

Fuse may be any of several different widely used units that produce the intense level of heat needed to initiate the thermite reaction of thermite that is in lateral bore enlarged parts and radial grooves and and radially extending bore . In an uncomplicated form fuse can be a small exposure of magnesium ribbon or a mixture of potassium permanganate and glycerine or some other high energy material such as thermite which can be ignited by a torch or match to initiate the thermite reaction. Electrical bridge wires ignitors friction matches match cord igniters and the off the shelf hand grenade fuse known in the inventory of the U.S. Army as the M201A1 are some examples of fuses that could be used. Fuse depicted in is such a known unit sealed and mounted in a sealed relationship in bore for a wide variety of uses including underwater ignition. When a pull ring is forcibly pulled from fuse a sufficient heat source is created for activation of thermite to produce the thermite reaction.

External grooves and can be filled with groove portions of thermite and bore including enlarged parts and and radially extending bore can be filled with a bore portion of thermite that has powdered reactants mixed with a binder to keep thermite solid and prevent separation. Thermite is capable of what is known as a thermite reaction a type of aluminothermic reaction that is one in which aluminum metal is oxidized by an oxide of another metal most commonly iron oxide. The products of such a reaction are aluminum oxide free elemental metal usually Fe and a great deal of heat that can be expressed in KJ mole. Although these reactants of thermite are stable at room temperature when they are exposed to sufficient heat to ignite such as that created by the exemplary fuse supra they burn with an extremely intense exothermic reaction the thermite reaction. The products of the exothermic reaction emerge as liquids one of which being molten iron due to the high temperatures reached with iron III oxide commonly 3000 C. 5432 F. or more . Thermite contains its own supply of oxygen and does not require any external source such as air . Consequently thermite cannot be smothered and may ignite in any environment including under water if given sufficient initial heat by fuse . Typical exemplary reactants for creating exemplary thermite reactions aluminothermic reactions can be 3FeO 2Al 3Fe AlO 783 KJ mole 1. FeO 8Al 2Fe AlO 759 KJ mole 2. 3FeO 8Al 9Fe 4AlO 3010 KJ mole 3. 

When thermite is made to include iron III oxide as one of the reactants as shown in formula 2. above it can be made with about 25.3 aluminum and about 74.7 iron oxide by mass for example. A small amount of binder can be included as part of the mass of the aluminum and iron oxide to hold the mixed reactants together in a desired form such as in the shape of groove portions of thermite in external grooves and and bore portion of thermite in bore and enlarged parts and . This mixture will create the welding process of fastener device with structural members and . Thermite which has been premixed into a homogeneous quasi stoichiometric mixture would optimally include 10 15 excess aluminum aluminum powder 3 500 micrometers in particle size and iron oxide particles with or without ferroalloy . Slag reducing additives may also be included. However other percentages of constituent reactants can be tailored by one skilled in the art for different applications.

Thermite can be press fitted into external grooves and as groove portions and in bore enlarged parts and and radial bore as bore portion . The cross sectional shape of external grooves and can be shallow trapezoidal as shown and bore can be cylindrical. Trapezoidal external grooves and have inwardly extending steel lip structure provided in body member to help retain groove portions of thermite in external grooves and see . However many other shapes for grooves and and bores and can be made such as V round square etc. by different machining operations to retain different amounts of thermite in groove portions and bore portion and to retain fuse .

External grooves and are depicted as extending in a radially extending pattern from bore . Other arrangements or patterns of external grooves and can be provided for in sides and of body member such as one or more spiral or matrix patterns that communicate with bore for example.

The amount of thermite of groove portions and bore portion is selected to create sufficient heat during the thermite reaction to produce sufficient quantities of molten iron and or steel from at least the parts of reagents of thermite of upper and lower sides and of body member adjacent to and around bore and along grooves and and parts of surfaces and of structural members and that are adjacent to grooves and and bore . The molten iron and or steel of body portion and structural members and flow together and weld fastener device and structural members and together as the molten material cools.

However in any pattern of external grooves and and bore care must be taken that only sufficient amounts of thermite are contained as groove portions in grooves and and bore portion in bore to generate sufficient heat during the thermite reaction of thermite. to melt and weld at least parts of reagents of thermite upper and lower sides and of body member and surfaces and of structural members and together but not so much thermite that might cut them or blow them apart. In other words it is important to dimension external grooves and and bore so that they contain only enough thermite to melt and weld at least portions of the reagents of thermite parts of body member and parts of surfaces and of structural members and and not contain so much thermite that would create an over energetic thermite reaction and forcibly push or blow adjacent surfaces and and and and melted reagents apart into separated constituents that aren t welded together. It can easily be determined by one of skill in the art with little or no experimentation how to properly size external grooves and and bore in body member to contain the appropriate amount of thermite in groove portions and bore portions .

Referring to fastener device is shown held between and adjacent to structural members and during the welding interconnection of fastener device . Because of the intense heat generated during the thermite reaction of ignited thermite the oozing and dripping molten metal and slag can create a significant hazard. In underwater use steam pockets can be created that transmit intolerable levels of heat and violent noise through the water medium. A workman usually cannot safely hand hold fastener device on flat face surfaces and of members and during ignition of thermite . Accordingly a number of holding mechanisms can be attached along the outer edge of body member to securely hold upper and lower flat face surfaces and of body member against flat surfaces and of structural members and during the thermite welding reaction. Typically holding mechanisms can be magnets adhesives rigging or conventional fasteners. In addition heat resistant lines or elastic strips can be secured to fastener device and to structural members and to securely hold groove portions and bore portion of thermite in body member contiguously against surfaces and of structural members and . External braces extending between device and other stationary fixtures might also be used or a workman might use a long handled tool to hold fastener device in place during welding. Any number of well known holding or fixturing expedients will suggest themselves to one of skill in the art to safely hold fastener device between and against surfaces and of structural members and during the welding process described herein. The force of gravity acting on the dead weight of an upper structural member can securely sandwich a relatively robust fastener device between structural members and and hold face surfaces and of device in a contiguous abutment with surfaces and of structural members and .

A thin sealing material layer can be coated or otherwise applied over the exposed area of body member and thermite in grooves and and bore . Sealing layer protects fastener device including its reactants from the adverse effects of the natural environment and can make it waterproof for reliable application in the undersea environment. When thermite is ignited sealing layer burns away and does not interfere with welding of device and structural members and .

In operation and referring to since an effective fastener device can be made in a compact size to make it man portable a workman diver can carry fastener device to an in air or underwater work site. Lower flat side of body member is placed to lie against and abut contiguously adjacent to flat surface of a steel or metal structural member . The other structural member to be welded to structural member is placed on top of fastener device so that part of its flat surface lies against and abuts contiguously adjacent to upper flat side of body member . Holding mechanisms including but not limited to the force of gravity hold the sandwiched fastener device and structural members and together. Fuse is actuated by pulling ring or other means of activation. Ignition of fuse initiates the thermite reaction of thermite of bore portion and groove portions and the molten metal iron steel of thermite and body member of fastener device adjacent to bore and grooves and and structural members and flow together and begin to cool and solidify. After the molten metal has cooled sufficiently not only are fastener device and structural members and welded together but structural members and are welded together via fastener device of the invention.

Having the teachings of this invention in mind modifications and alternate embodiments of fastener device may be adapted. The shape of body member can be altered to have differently oriented flat face surfaces to fit and accommodate other differently shaped and oriented structural members and and weld them together on the spot. Fuse and its bore could be located to extend in any number of positions in body member to hold thermite and fuse .

Furthermore fastener device of the invention can be modified to weld other materials together using reagents other than the aforedescribed steel iron constituents reagents. For example body member of fastener device could be made from other metals or plastic compounds and have grooves and and bore filled with other mixed reagents such as other metal reagents or plastic compound reagents. These other metal reagents and plastic compound reagents can be appropriately initiated by a fuse as described above or by addition of a catalyst or other suitable stimulus for different chemical exothermic reactions. In either case the other metal reagents or plastic compounds are stimulated to undergo exothermic reactions that will melt and weld the other metals or plastic compounds together. Different reagents and the procedures for initiation of their exothermic reactions to enable connection to different structures are known. Selection from these known expedients for inclusion in fastener device of the invention can be readily done within the scope of one having ordinary skill in the art. In addition to the compact and portable unit described fastener device could have different shapes and different sizes to assure positive interconnection with other structures under different operational scenarios.

The disclosed components and their arrangements as disclosed herein all contribute to the novel features of this invention. Fastener device is a rugged portable means for assuring real time connection of structural members in air and underwater. Fastener device provides a man portable self contained reliable and secure interconnection of structural members by an unskilled workman at a primitive work site. The description of fastener device as disclosed herein is not to be construed as limiting but rather is intended to be demonstrative of this inventive concept.

It should be readily understood that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible within the purview of the claimed invention. It is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

