---

title: Walker behavior detection apparatus
abstract: A behavior of a walker is detected according to combination of detection of the walking behavior on a level and an altitude variation of the walker to more accurately detect the behavior of the walker. A burned calorie can be obtained according to the type of the walking behavior. An altitude variation can be obtained more accurately by integrating altitude variation only at sections with vertical movement during walking. A stride is estimated according to the behavior of the walker in consideration of the vertical movement. Obtained position and traveling direction are used for compensating values in inertial navigation system. The behavior with and without vertical movement is used in a walker navigator and a worker observing system including a worker terminal carried by the walker for detecting the behavior of the worker and a worker observing terminal for providing the detected position and behavior of the walker.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07811203&OS=07811203&RS=07811203
owner: Hitachi Advanced Systems Corporation
number: 07811203
owner_city: Yokohama-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060928
---
A walking status is recognized by observing vertical movement accompanying walking using an acceleration sensor and spectrum analyzing the vertical movement. For example Japanese Laid open Patent Application Publication No. 10 113343 discloses such a technology. Further a position of a walker is estimated in accordance with the recognized walking status by comparing the detected walking status with geographic data of for example passages in a building or roads outside the building.

Further a moving distance is calculated by estimating stride from the recognized walking status. For example Japanese Laid open Patent Application Publication No. 2004 085511 and Journal of paper A by the Institute of Electronics Information and Communication Engineers Vol. J87 A No. 1 pp 78 86 January 2004 disclose such a technology.

In the documents the walking status is recognized by observing physical forces an acceleration an angular velocity and like generated by a movement of a walker. Walking on a staircase can be recognized only by the acceleration and the angular velocity from a waveform observed during the walking on the staircase. However walking on the staircase may be erroneously recognized as walking on a level which resembles walking on the staircase. Further if a positional compensation is made by comparing the motion recognition with geographic information the erroneous recognition may cause judgment that the position is at an incorrect place. Further the prior art position determination method does not consider a walking direction of the walker.

In the prior art the moving distance is calculated by estimating a stride. However it does not consider moving distances during climbing and descending the staircase.

A first aspect of the present invention provides a walker behavior detection apparatus comprising detecting means for detecting a horizontal walking behavior of a walker regarding a level altitude variation detecting means for detecting altitude variation of the walker and estimating means for estimating a walking behavior of the walker on the basis of a combination of the horizontal walking behavior and the detected altitude variation.

A second aspect of the present invention provides a walker behavior detection apparatus comprising walker behavior detecting means for detecting a behavior of a walker a storage for storing geographical information corresponding to the detected behavior of the walker and searching means for searching a part of the geographical information corresponding to the detected behavior of the walker to detect position information and traveling direction information on the basis of the searched part.

The same or corresponding elements or parts are designated with like references throughout the drawings.

The present invention provides a walker behavior detection apparatus capable of accurately recognizing a walking status though the walker is in a walking status with vertical movement.

In the present invention a behavior of a walker is recognized using a combination of recognizing a walking behavior on a level and simultaneously detecting vertical movement to improve a recognition accuracy.

With reference to will be described a flow of a process in the walker behavior detection apparatus. Regarding various types of units are available for the behavior variation signal detecting unit and the altitude detecting unit . However to simplify the description will be described an example in which the acceleration is detected as the behavior detection signal and the barometric pressure sensor is used as the altitude detecting unit .

A value of the acceleration sensor is inputted in a step . For example an analog signal outputted by the acceleration sensor is read with an A D converter. The read value of the acceleration sensor is converted into a frequency domain with an FFT fast Fourier transform or the like in a step . In a step a frequency in a spectrum indicating a pace of the walker pace spectrum is extracted from data obtained by converting the output of the acceleration sensor into the frequency domain and intensities are detected. In a step the intensity of the spectrum at the frequency is classified with a membership function to recognize the behavior of the walker such as walking and running with the membership function similar to the recognizing unit disclosed in Japanese Laid open Patent Application Publication No. 10 113343 . Thus the behavior of the walker is recognized with an assumption that the walker moves on a level.

In a step a value of the barometric pressure sensor is read with an A D converter at the same time as in the acceleration sensor. The entered value of the barometric pressure sensor is calculated by differentiating at a unit time interval in the step to convert it into a variation in the barometric pressure barometric pressure variation .

In a classifying process in a step a walking behavior is recognized by combining two types of judging results from the recognizing result in the step of the walking behavior and the calculation result of the barometric pressure variation in the step . In the step the following process is executed.

In the following descriptions there is exemplified a case in which a staircase or an elevator is used for the walker to move vertically. Further an example of a content of the classifying table in is made as shown in .

When the walker moves on a level flat place in which case there is no barometric pressure variation the barometric pressure variation becomes that linked to a sea level pressure at that moment. Although the barometric pressure may rapidly vary because a depression or a typhoon passes the variation is equal to or less than several hPa. For example a maximum barometric pressure variation at Yokohama when typhoon No. 11 of 2005 passes was 5.1 hPa for one hour from 3 00 a.m. to 4 00 a.m. on August . When the barometric variation is converted into an altitude variation the value is about 43 m per hour. Thus the barometric variation is considered to be an altitude variation of about 70 cm per minute. As compared with this when the walker climbs a staircase the walker generally moves across about 4 m of one floor in about 10 to 15 seconds. Thus the walker moves about 16 m for one minute. The barometric variation by the movement of the walker is about twenty times that by the approaching typhoon. Accordingly the movement can be judged as vertical movement using the barometric variation with a threshold. When the barometric variation is smaller than the threshold the movement can be judged as a movement on the level. In the abscissa represents types of walking behavior and the ordinate represents an altitude variation barometric pressure variation . A numeral represents the threshold for judgment between presence and absence of the vertical movement in the barometric variation. Thus a level movement region under the threshold with a small barometric variation represents the absence of the vertical movement as a level movement. Similarly a vertical movement region above the threshold with a large barometric variation represents the presence of the vertical movement.

However only the barometric pressure variation cannot provide judgment of the walking behavior of the walker. Then the walking behavior of the walker is judged by a combination of the judgment based on the barometric pressure and the judgment made in the step . Thus the judgment in the step is made regarding the abscissa in .

In references and represent thresholds for types of the behavior of the walker. On the left side of the threshold is a rest region . On the right side of the threshold is a running region . Between the thresholds and is a walking region .

When the barometric pressure variation is judged as the level movement level movement region and the type of behavior is judged as a rest in the step the behavior of the walker is judged as a rest on the level classified into a rest on level region at an overlapped region between the level movement and a status of rest on the level. Similarly when the barometric pressure variation is judged as the level movement classified into a level movement region and the type of the behavior is judged as walking classified into the walking region the walking behavior of the walker is judged as walking on the level classified into a walking on level region .

Similarly when the barometric pressure variation is judged as the level movement the level movement region and the type of the behavior is judged as walking the walking region the walking behavior of the walker is judged as walking on the level a walking on level region . When the type of the behavior is judged as running the running region the walking behavior of the walker is judged as running on the level a running on level region .

When the barometric pressure variation is judged as the presence of vertical movement the vertical movement region and the type of the behavior is judged as a rest in the step the walking behavior of the walker is judged as movement on an elevator elevator movement region .

Similarly when the barometric pressure variation is judged as the presence of the vertical movement vertical movement region and the type of the behavior is judged as walking walking region the behavior of the walker is judged as walking on a staircase walking on staircase region . When the barometric pressure variation is judged as the presence of the vertical movement and the behavior of the walker is judged as running the behavior of the walker is judged as running on the staircase running on staircase region . The recognition result is outputted in the step .

The output of the barometric pressure sensor is A D converted after conversion of the output such that a conversion output increases in value as the pressure decreases as the altitude increases and decreases as the pressure increases as the altitude decreases.

A waveform indicates intensities of pace spectrum extracted in the step . The ordinate on the left side in represents spectrum intensities. When a spectrum intensity exceeds 0.05 the behavior is judged as the walking status and when the spectrum intensity exceeds 0.4 the behavior is judged as the running status. In this example because there is no spectrum intensity exceeding 0.4 the walker only rests and or walks in this measuring interval. A waveform represents a judging result read on an ordinate on the right of . The behavior of the walker between 0 and 20 seconds is judged as a rest status. At a section there is substantially no barometric pressure variation because the intensity of the pace spectrum is approximately from 0.05 to 0.1 the walking status . Then there is no barometric pressure variation with the walking status and thus judged as walking on the level. At a section there is a barometric variation and the status is a rest. Thus the behavior is judged as movement by an elevator.

In this event using a sign of barometric pressure variations it can be judged that the behavior of the walker is judged as an upward movement by the elevator because the sign is positive at the section . At the section the barometric pressure variation has a positive variation and thus indicates the walking status from the pace spectrum. Thus the walker is judged to climb the staircase. At a section the barometric pressure variation is negative and the status of the walker is judged as walking so that the walker is judged to be descent on a staircase.

As mentioned above the walking status accompanied by the vertical movement can be recognized by combining the recognition in the behavior recognizing unit and the recognition on the basis of barometric pressure variation in the altitude variation detecting unit .

Further walking on a slope and running on the slope is discriminated from walking on the level and running on the level with a threshold .

Thus the behavior of the walker is further classified into a walking on slope region a running on slope region a walking on staircase region a running on staircase region a walking on escalator region and a running on escalator region .

As described in the embodiment a plurality of threshold values for the barometric pressure are provided in accordance with vertical moving methods to increase the number of the recognized types of the walking behavior accompanied by the vertical movement.

The above mentioned embodiment is limited to the recognition of the walking behavior. However a burned calorie can be calculated from the walking behavior. For example the burned calorie varies in accordance with a difference in a type of walking behavior such as walking on the level and walking on the staircase. Thus a table of burned calories corresponding to walking behaviors is previously prepared and the burned calorie associated with the walking behavior can be calculated with reference to Table 1 .

In for this operation a burned calorie calculating unit is add which calculates the burned calorie in accordance with the walking behavior recognized result .

As mentioned above according to the embodiment the burned calorie can be detected in accordance with the walking behavior. In addition a total burned calorie can be calculated by integration in accordance with the detected type of the walking behavior.

With reference to will be described a modification in which the altitude detected by the barometric pressure sensor is compensated with the walking behavior recognized result . The waveform in represents the output of the altitude detecting unit a barometric pressure sensor . The data is obtained in an example in which an observation is made at the same position the same altitude at start time time 0 second and end time time 240 second . Accordingly the altitudes at the start time and the end time should be the same. However the altitude at the end time slightly increases from the altitude at the start time. This is because as previously described in the example describing the typhoon the barometric pressure varies by approach of a depression and the like as time passes. In the presence of such the barometric variation the altitude obtained by the barometric pressure measured by a barometer may include an error in the altitude obtained by the barometric pressure sensor. Then with a processing flowchart shown in the error is compensated. First an initial altitude is set in a step . This can be made by the user through a manual setting or with altitude information from a GPS unit. Next the walking behavior is detected in a step for example the process shown in . It is judged in a step whether the walking is associated with the vertical movement. If the walking behavior is associated with the vertical movement because the altitude variation detected in the step is caused by a barometric pressure accompanied by the vertical movement a process is made in which the altitude variation is added to the altitude of one calculation prior cycle to output the resultant altitude in a step . If the walking behavior judged to be without the vertical movement because the value of the barometric variation currently observed is not the altitude variation accompanied by the vertical movement without the process in a step the value of the altitude of one calculation prior cycle is outputted as the current altitude in step . Hereinafter the same process is repeated to detect the altitude. A waveform in shows a result of the process in which the altitude difference between the arrows and is compensated with a correct altitude. In this modification the barometric pressure variation sea level pressure during the vertical movement is not considered. This is because time duration during the vertical movement is shorter than that during walking on the level so that this does not result in a large error if no consideration of the sea level pressure variation during the vertical movement is made.

According to this modification the barometric pressure variation is considered only at sections in which the walking behavior is associated with the vertical movement to exclude the influence of the sea level pressure variation.

With reference to will be described a position detection apparatus using the walking behavior detection in the first embodiment capable of estimating an accurate stride in walking even with vertical movement using the recognized walking behavior as mentioned above to apply it to a position detection technology according to a second embodiment of the present invention. is a block diagram of the behavior detection apparatus for estimating the stride and detecting a position. is a table for estimating the stride. The estimation of a traveling speed moving distance of the walker on the level is disclosed in Japanese laid open patent application publication No 2004 085511 and Journal of paper A by the Institute of Electronics Information and Communication Engineers Vol. J87 A No. 1 pp 78 86 January 2004. In the embodiment a traveling speed moving speed of the walker on the level is estimated as follows 

 1 An acceleration variation waveform in the vertical direction is frequency analyzed in order to extract a frequency indicating the pace and detect the spectrum intensity.

This uses the fact that because the coefficient for each walking behavior is different between walking and running coefficients for conversion into the strides are different from one another.

If the walker moves on the level this estimation is made in consideration of variation in the stride caused by difference in the walking behavior so that an accurate traveling speed can be obtained though the walker walks or runs. On the other hand if the walker moves on the staircase the spectrum intensity becomes different between ascending and descending sections and in with a result that the traveling distance becomes different between the ascending and the descending. This is because an acceleration at touching to a step during descending is greater than that during ascending. Here sizes of steps of the staircases are substantially the same so that the stride does not change in accordance with the walking behavior except skipping .

Then the stride is estimated with a stride estimating unit shown in designed in consideration of the vertical movement. The stride estimation unit is supplied with a frequency and the spectrum intensity of the pace spectrum obtained by the behavior recognizing unit and a behavior recognition result as input data. With reference to will be described a process in the stride estimation unit . The table shows various types of stride estimation. Estimation for the level movement and the staircase movement is made in accordance with the moving speed . The level movement is divided into the walking and the running detected by a single acceleration sensor. When the behavior is recognized as a level movement in the behavior recognition result output stride estimation calculations and for the level movement are made. When the behavior is recognized as the staircase movement the moving speed is obtained by a calculation of a fixed stride a pace independently of the behavior of walking. A value of the fixed stride may be assumed to be about 30 cm which is a size of a standard step. Further to increase an accuracy sizes of the steps of the staircases are recorded in geographical information and used for the size of the step where the walker passes will be mentioned later a unit for judging which one of staircases the walker passes . After the stride moving speed is estimated as mentioned above the traveling direction of the walker is detected by the traveling direction detecting unit . Next a traveling locus calculating unit obtains a moving locus by integration of the traveling speed and the traveling direction to provide a moving locus output .

Thus according to the second embodiment an accurate stride estimation is provided though the walking behavior is associated with the vertical movement caused by the staircase or the like so that the moving locus can be estimated from the stride.

When the walker behavior is recognized as walking on the level the stride of walking on the level is estimated and when the walker behavior is recognized as walking accompanied by the vertical movement the stride detected on the level is compensated on the basis of the walker behavior recognized result vertical movement to obtain a moving speed and a traveling distance of the walker.

With reference to will be described a position detection apparatus according to a third embodiment in which the recognized walking behavior is compared with geographical information therearound and the position of the walker corresponding to the recognized walking behavior is estimated. is an illustration for operation during the movement on the staircase. is a block diagram of the third embodiment. Numeral in is a behavior recognizing unit which is the same as that shown in for recognizing the walking behavior with the vertical movement. Numeral denotes a position detecting unit of the walker. For example this may be the moving locus calculating unit described with reference to a position detecting unit using a GPS unit or a wireless LAN. The position detection apparatus described in the third embodiment is provided to detect the position of the walker having a higher accuracy than the position information detected by the position detecting unit . Numeral denotes a geographical information database for storing geographical information such as a position of a building information of an internal structure and a position of a staircase an elevator and the like and information of outside roads and geographical information. Numeral denotes a geographical information searching unit using the walking behavior. The geographical information searching unit searches the geographical database for a position on the geographical information corresponding to the walking behavior detected by the behavior recognizing unit with rough position information detected by the position detecting unit . Here the geographical information corresponding to the walking behavior means that staircase geographical information is for staircase walking elevator geographical information for an elevator movement is for elevator movement escalator geographical information is for an escalator movement and the like. Thus when the staircase walking is recognized the walker is estimated to be at a place on a staircase and the position information of the staircase can be obtained with reference to the geographical information of staircases. Assuming that there are a plurality of staircases the geographical information searching unit searches the geographical information database for the geographical information corresponding to the nearest staircase on the basis of the rough position information of the walker detected by the position detecting unit . This provides the corresponding geographical information from a result of the behavior recognizing unit and the rough current position so that the position can be estimated from the position information in the geographical information the above mentioned process is the same as that disclosed Japanese Laid open Patent Application Publication 10 113343 . Further a change point and traveling direction detecting unit performs a process of a change point in the geographical information and a traveling direction using a change in the behavior of the walker to improve the detection accuracy and detect the traveling direction. With reference to will be described the process.

Numeral denotes a staircase. It is assumed that the geographical information searching unit judges that the walker is on the staircase . As shown by an arrow the staircase is so arranged that an ascending direction is north and a descending direction is south. In a case that the walker moves from a section staircase to a section level the result of behavior recognition of the walker is ascending on the staircase at the section and level walking at the section . Thus a point where the recognition result of the behavior changes to level walking is an end of the ascending the staircase . Since a shape and position data of the staircase are stored in the geographic information database the point is obtained on the basis of the information. Thus the change point and traveling direction detecting unit generates a position output and a traveling direction output . As mentioned above referring the change point of the walking behavior provides the position information having a higher accuracy than the result searched by the geographic information searching unit . Further because the ascending direction of the staircase is north the walker walks northward. Thus the traveling direction of the walker can be detected. This is applicable to a case of descending the staircase . The change point and traveling direction detecting unit recognizes a section as descending the staircase and a section as level walking and thus the change point is judged to be an end of the staircase in descending. The traveling direction is judged to be the south because the walker descends the staircase .

As mentioned above according to the third embodiment the place at the walker can be estimated by comparing the recognition result of the walking behavior with the geographical information so that the current position and the traveling direction of the walker can be detected.

Next with reference to and will be described a fourth embodiment in which position compensation is used in a position detection apparatus an autonomous position detection apparatus or an inertial navigation method for detecting a position by integrating the speed and the traveling direction per unit interval using the position detection apparatus in the third embodiment for detecting the position and the traveling direction with the walker behavior detection apparatus. shows a flowchart according to the fourth embodiment is an illustration of an example of a moving locus without compensation according to the second embodiment for comparison in the fourth embodiment and is an illustration for showing a result of the operation according to the fourth embodiment in the case of the same movement of the walker as that shown in .

The embodiment provides a compensation apparatus for compensating the position for accuracy even in such a status. First an initial position of the walker is set in a step in . This may be done by entering positional coordinate values and a traveling direction after the walker confirms the position thereof with a map an absolute position and a traveling direction as input data detected by a unit capable of detecting an absolute position such as the GPS unit if the walker is at an area where the unit can be used or positional information detected by reading ID information after a tag and the like for transmitting ID information corresponding to the position is provided using an RFID and the like. A process of estimating the position and the traveling direction is made using the detected walking behavior and the geographical information in a step . This process can be done with for example the apparatus shown in . Next in a step 1 a judgment is made whether estimation regarding the position and the traveling direction is possible and 2 when the judgment is possible the position and the traveling direction are calculated. If the estimation regarding the position and the traveling direction is possible after the judging step the current position and the traveling direction are set again using the estimated position and traveling direction in a step . The case that the estimation regarding the position and the direction are possible corresponds to the case that the corresponding place can be estimated through recognition between ascending and descending. For example in the example in when the walker passes the staircases and this status can be detected and thus the position of the staircase and the traveling direction are set again.

After that a walking speed per unit time interval is obtained and a traveling direction per the unit time interval for example the position detection apparatus shown in are obtained in a step . Next the moving locus is calculated by time integration in a step and a current position and a current traveling direction are outputted in a step . When it is judged that the estimation regarding the position and the traveling direction cannot be made in the step for example in walking at a place other than the staircases the processes in the step and are executed to output the current position and the current traveling direction in the step without executing the setting process in the step . After this processing returns to the step to repeat these processes to continuously output the position and the traveling direction.

In the above mentioned embodiment the position compensation by the GPS unit is used for the initial position setting in the step . However in the step a judgment may be made whether an accuracy of the GPS unit is reliable and if the accuracy is reliable in addition to the position compensation by the behavior detection the compensation can be made with values from the GPS unit. Further when both the position compensation by the behavior detection and the position detection by the GPS unit are judged to be possible one of the position compensation by the behavior detection and the position detection by the GPS unit which has a higher accuracy is selected.

According to the fourth embodiment this apparatus can be used as a compensating unit for the autonomous position detection apparatus in which an error is accumulated as time passes. For this operation in an inertial navigation system including an acceleration sensor is added which compensates the position information and the traveling direction information from the inertial navigation system on the basis of the detected position and traveling direction.

With reference to will be described a walker navigation terminal according to a fifth embodiment using the walker behavior detection apparatus. In numeral denotes an acceleration sensor numeral denotes a barometric sensor and numeral denotes a direction sensor a magnetic azimuth sensor or a gyro sensor . Numeral denotes a GPS unit. Numeral denotes a geographical information database numeral denotes a CPU as a processor and numeral denotes a display. These units are integrated as a walker navigation terminal for a walker.

The acceleration sensor corresponds to the behavior variation signal detecting unit and the sensor shown in and the barometric pressure sensor corresponds to the altitude detecting unit in . The CPU executes on the basis of information from the acceleration sensor and the barometric pressure sensor the behavior detection of the walker described with reference to the moving locus detection of the walker using an added direction sensor described with reference to and the position and direction detection using the behavior of the walker described using . Further in the GPS unit in an open air where radio waves from GPS satellites can be received well the position information obtained by the GPS unit is used as the position of the walker navigation terminal without modification or a value just before the receiving status becomes poor is used as setting information for the initial position in the step in .

Numeral denotes a geographical information database which is used for searching from the detection result of the walking behavior corresponding geographical information such as a position of a staircase and stores data for drawing the moving locus obtained by the moving locus detecting apparatus described with reference to and geographic information of the circumference such as buildings and roads. A result obtained by the database and the CPU is drawn on a display unit . Among drawn information are the detection result of the walking behavior obtained with reference to the burned calorie of the walker the current moving locus of the walker and the geographical information displayed over the moving locus obtained with reference to and . This enables the walker to recognize where the walker is currently located by watching the display screen image .

In the embodiment the method of detecting a current position of the walker and the moving locus is described. Route guidance on the basis of route search information which is generally performed in car navigation units may be performed on the basis of these pieces of information. Differences between the car navigation unit and the embodiment are as follows 

 1 At an area where the GPS can be used the detection is the same as a car navigator. 2 When the GPS unit cannot be used in the embodiment the stride estimation is used though the car navigator detects a traveling distance using a vehicle speed pulse. 3 When a position detection error occurs in the embodiment the detected position is compensated with the geographical information of for example staircases elevators and escalators corresponding to the walking behavior though the car navigator compensates the detected position along roads map matching .

Next a modification is shown in in which a display terminal is separated from a waist terminal . A difference from the walker navigation terminal shown in is in that the display is separated and the process is the same as that described with reference to .

To perform the behavior detection and the stride estimation of the walker it is desirable to locate the acceleration sensor and the direction sensor at the waist of the walker which is the weight center of the walker. However in the case of the example in if the detection process is performed with the walker navigation terminal being attached to the waist the walker must watch the display screen to know the current place by detaching the walker navigation terminal from the waist. This may cause an erroneous recognition or a position detection error in the detection result by the watching the display screen. Accordingly in the example of the walker navigation terminal is divided into a waist terminal with a sensor part attachable to the waist and an easy to watch display terminal carried by a hand of the walker for providing a display screen on which image is displayed through transmitting and receiving information of screen image information and the like through communication line . The communication line may be a wired one or a wireless one. This structure allows the walker navigation terminal to be divided into a display part of the easy to watch display terminal and a sensor part of the waist terminal in which the error recognition of the walking behavior and the position detection error are suppressed. More specifically dividing the navigation terminal is made in order to locate the sensors for detecting walking behavior detection of the walker at the most appropriate place. In the structure shown in the CPU and the geographical information database are arranged in the waist terminal . However only the acceleration sensor and the direction sensor may be arranged in the waist terminal attachable to the waist and other sensors and processing circuits may be arranged in the display terminal for providing the screen image to the walker.

According to the embodiment the sensors which may influence the detection accuracy of the walking behavior and the detection accuracy of the moving locus can be separately located at the place with a good condition.

With reference to will be described a sixth embodiment in which the present invention is applied to a worker status detection system. The system includes a worker terminal attachable to a worker and a worker observing terminal remote from the worker. The worker terminal is provided with a communication unit in addition to the structure described with reference to . Thus the worker terminal has a processing function described with reference to to perform the detection of a behavior and a position of the worker and the detection of moving locus. These pieces of information can be watched by the worker with a display unit similarly to the description made with reference to and transmitted to the worker observing terminal remotely located. Numeral denotes a communication line such as a wireless communication. Numeral denotes a communication unit and numeral denotes a geographical information database. Numeral is a CPU as a processor and numeral is a display unit. The information detected by the worker terminal transmitted through the communication line is received by the communication unit to transmit it to a CPU as a processor. The CPU processes a drawing process of the transmitted information. For example if a walker behavior detection result of the worker is transmitted the result of the walker behaviors walking running and ascending and the like is converted into display image data to be transmitted to the display for drawing. When the moving locus and position and traveling direction information are transmitted it is possible to draw to indicate where the walker worker is located by overlapping the information on an image of the geographical information from the geographical database . Thus the worker observing terminal provides detection of a behavior and a position of a worker at a remote place. In only one worker terminal is shown. However a plurality of worker observing terminals may be wirelessly connected to the worker observing terminal to display behavior information and position information of a plurality of workers. Further the worker terminal is a terminal in which the screen image and the sensors are integrated. However the worker terminal may be divided into a sensor part and the display part as described with reference to .

According to the embodiment the position and the behavior of the worker can be detected at a remote place.

According to the above mentioned embodiments a combination of the walking behavior recognizing apparatus with assumption that it is used on the level and recognition by the barometric pressure variation provides recognition of the walker behavior accompanied by the vertical movement and detection of burned calorie in accordance with the walking behavior.

Further considering the barometric pressure variation only at the section where walking is accompanied by the vertical movement provides the compensation for removing the influence of the see level pressure variation.

The stride can be estimated accurately though the walking behavior is accompanied by the vertical movement on for example the staircase. In addition the moving locus can be estimated from the estimation of the stride.

The present invention provides the estimation of the place where the walker is by comparing the recognition result of the walking behavior with the geographical information which provides a current position and the traveling direction of the walker.

The present invention is applicable to the compensating unit for the autonomous position detection apparatus to be used to compensating the position detected by the autonomous position detection apparatus in which an error is accumulated as time passes.

The present invention is applied to the walker navigator which is usable to observe the position and the behavior of the worker at a remote place.

As mentioned above the present invention provides the walker behavior detecting apparatus capable of accurately recognizing the walking status though the walker in a walking status in which the walker moves vertically.

