---

title: Remote access and social networking using presence-based applications
abstract: Various embodiments utilize a real-time instant messaging or presence based communications system as a mechanism to remotely control the operation, programming, and/or review of media content on a device or system such as a television, media center, gaming device, digital video recorder and the like. In addition, the use of the instant messaging or presence based communication system opens up various social networking options for users. For example, users can, if allowed, gain access to the viewing habits of individuals in their contact list and exchange information with one another to provide a rich, robust sharing environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07853661&OS=07853661&RS=07853661
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07853661
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060103
---
Today a person who wants to interact with a device that consumes media such as a television or entertainment system that plays programs and movies or a gaming device among other devices typically needs to be present at the device to manage review view the programming or otherwise interact with the device.

Various embodiments utilize a real time instant messaging or presence based communications system as a mechanism to remotely control the operation programming and or review of media content on a device or system such as a television media center gaming device digital video recorder and the like.

In addition the use of the instant messaging or presence based communication system opens up various social networking options for users. For example users can if allowed gain access to the viewing habits of individuals in their contact list and exchange information with one another to provide a rich robust sharing environment.

Various embodiments utilize a real time instant messaging or presence based communications system as a mechanism to remotely control the operation programming and or review of media content on a device or system such as a television media center gaming device digital video recorder and the like.

In addition the use of the instant messaging or presence based communication system opens up various social networking options for users. For example users can if allowed gain access to the viewing habits of individuals in their contact list and exchange information with one another to provide a rich robust sharing environment.

Using a real time instant messaging or presence based network such as a Voice Over IP VoIP or voice clip network to manage the process described below provides a unique capability as a person or user can interact with an application or BOT short for robot on the network to access interact with and or program their device. In contexts where the device resides in the form of a media center or television such interaction can allow a user to record programs review programs that have been recorded interact with the application or BOT to receive recommendations for programs to view based on the programs that they have recorded reviewed or asked questions about and receive notifications about new programming that the system determines or the user has indicated would be of interest to them.

In the discussion that follows the notion of a presence based network is first discussed to provide the reader who is unfamiliar with such networks some context for appreciating the described embodiments. Following this a discussion of the inventive embodiments in the context of a presence based network is provided.

The notion of presence typically implies the use of a server or service that runs and keeps online users updated with each other s contacts online status. That is in a presence based network users can identify so called contacts the same or similar to those that appear in the user s email address list. Whenever a contact is online the presence based network notifies the user so that the user can leverage the services provided by the network such as instant messaging peer to peer file exchange and the like. That is the presence based network can enable contacts that are online together to communicate in a real time fashion.

One commercially available software product that provides presence capabilities is MSN Messenger although other products are available. MSN Messenger is a rich integrated real time communications experience in Windows XP that enables people to effortlessly see talk work and play with friends family and colleagues whenever and however they choose using their personal computer. MSN Messenger also includes presence and notification features to keep users updated when their contacts are online and let users know their current status.

Various embodiments described below can leverage the functionality provided by a presence based network. It is to be appreciated and understood that MSN Messenger constitutes but one exemplary application that can be utilized in this context. As such other applications can be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

As an example of a presence based network in accordance with one embodiment consider which illustrates such a network or system generally at . System includes one or more computing devices each of which includes one or more processors one or more computer readable media and one or more applications tat reside on the computer readable media and which are executable by the processor s . In at least one embodiment one of the applications resides in the form of an instant messaging application such as MSN Messenger.

Although computing device is illustrated in the form of a desktop computer it is to be appreciated and understood that other computing devices can be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. For example other computing devices can include by way of example and not limitation portable computers handheld computers such as personal digital assistants PDAs cell phones and the like.

System also includes a network such as the Internet that is used by computing device to communicate with a presence based network . Any suitable protocols can be utilized to enable communication between computing device and presence based network .

As shown presence based network includes one or more servers that implement the presence environment as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan. The presence based network can be one tat includes or supports the use of instant messaging VoIP voice clips and the like all of which can permit a user of computing device to communicate with the network. Instant messaging VoIP and voice clip protocols will be understood by the skilled artisan and for the sake of brevity are not further described here.

In at least some embodiments the presence based network includes one or more applications or bots typically hosted by or on a server which communicate with a user of computing device through any suitable means such as instant messaging VoIP voice clips and the like as well as with a media service that provides access to various media such as television programs online games and the like. An example of such as media service is one that is provided by MSN TV as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan. Media service can either host or have access to an electronic program guide service that exposes program guide data which can be used by the user to make programming decisions.

In addition system includes one or more device systems on which media provided by media service can be consumed by the user. Examples of such devices systems include by way of example and not limitation televisions game devices as well as other devices such as computing devices digital video recorders DVRs mobile phones personal media device for showing videos or listening to music and personal computers running for example Windows Media Center.

In at least some embodiments media service maintains data that pertains to many individual users consumption of media content. This data can include by way of example and not limitation data that pertains to user viewing habits such as programs that a user watches user or service ratings information user profiles such as programs actors or characteristics of programs that the user find desirable and the like.

In operation application or bot is in one embodiment an advocate for a user s television habits. That is bot can make recommendations to the user and can provide the user with remote access to their device or system via computing device so that the user can interact with or otherwise control their device or system. In addition as described below in more detail in at least some embodiments bot understands what a user s contacts are viewing what the contacts have recorded and the like and can thus provide a social networking experience that enables a rich and robust sharing interaction among users.

As such the bot serves as a conduit of information that projects information based on a user s likes and dislikes. The bot is able to provide and support these features as well as others by leveraging the use of the presence based network. More specifically in at least one embodiment the hot is programmed or otherwise configured in a manner that allows the user to have a conversation with the bot using a human like communication channel. Such human like communication channel can reside in the form of an instant messaging channel that permits textual conversation to be exchanged. Alternately or additionally this communication channel can reside in the form of a real time communication channel that supports VoIP or voice clips as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan.

In embodiments that utilize an instant messaging channel to enable a user to engage bot bot resides in the form of a contact that can be added to the user s contact list. In one embodiment a contact list is a list of users on the presence based network for which a particular user views and publishes their presence. For example bot might have a name such as TVBuddy microsoft.com such that the bot can be added to the user s contact list. Once added to the user s contact list any time that the user is online they can engage the bot if the bot is online as well. Typically bot will most likely always be online.

As an example consider which illustrates from an application in the form of an instant messaging application and one application bot . Here instant messaging application presents on a user s remote computing device a so called conversation window which permits the user to have conversations with various contacts that are online. Notice here that a contact is included in their contact list and corresponds to application bot . Notice also in the conversation window that the user is currently textually engaging the bot and vice versa . Here the bot is asking the user to select a way for the bot to find shows for the user to watch. In this instance user Tony has selected 1 and thus the bot will now use Tony s recommendations to find a show to watch. In this particular example bot can leverage the data that is maintained by media service to come back with a meaningful selection for Tony. In this manner the user can interact with bot to remotely program review or receive recommendations about programming.

In at least some embodiments bot can be configured to generate various alerts for a user. For example alerts can be opt in notifications about user specified content of interest with end points that include an instant messaging application an e mail application and mobile devices via SMS . Alerts can be s generated on any content or trigger event. In at least some embodiments alerts can be generated by a system through web service API s which can be hosted as part of the instant messaging network an example of which is discussed below.

In at least some embodiments bot can cause an activity window to be opened on the user s computing device to enable the user to more meaningfully remotely view and make selections. As an example consider which shows FIG. s conversation window along with an activity window that has been opened for the user. Notice here that the bot is prompting the user to review the available programming to program a device such as devices in . Activity window displays the programming available based on time user preferences and the like. Notice also that the user is interacting with bot via both conversation window and with activity window . For example the user has opted via activity window to record two programs.

The user of an activity window constitutes but one example of how a bot and an application can interact. Other types of interactions can be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

In the discussion that follows those steps that can be performed by a user or a client side application are designated as Client Side . Similarly those steps that can be performed by a server side application or bot are designated as Server Side .

Step opts into a presence based system for controlling a device. Examples of presence based systems are given above. This step can be performed in any suitable way. For example a user can add a bot to their contact list as indicated above. Alternately or additionally a user can opt into the system through an opt in process for notifications on an instant messaging network.

Step adds the user to the presence based system for controlling a device. Step interacts with the user. This step can be performed in any suitable way. Specifically given the flexibility and access that the presence based system provides to a wide variety of services such interaction can take a wide variety of forms. For example once the user has opted into the system various events can occur that prompt the bot to interact with the user. For example programming might be complete for a media service such as media service such that the user is notified. Alternately or additionally new programming may be available or a watch list that a user has established for content dates and programming may be implicated by having a program that meets its criteria played. This can also include by way of example and not limitation a bot looking for and purchasing selected programming on behalf of the user when a specified price point has been reached and notifying the user of the purchase a bot notifying the user of system status disk full only room for two more programs hardware failure software upgrades available that would enable new functionality etc. a bot that helps a user manage the synching of recorded or purchased media across multiple devices connected to the hot an appropriately DRM enabled bot enabling a user to transfer a purchased media file from one system to another system where for example the user might be on vacation a bot that could help manage child safety viewing habits by being able to manage and notify parents of their child s viewing time and show content a notification to a user when the bot has determined that some interesting pattern of media viewing has taken place within the social network of the user e.g. more than 3 of the contacts on my contact list have watched a particular movie within the last 24 hours .

The events that are sent to the user can cause the user at step to open a conversation window to engage the bot. In this case the conversation window might be opened by the user clicking on a particular UI button on a received notification or event. But one example of a conversation window is provided above.

Alternately or additionally a user may proactively and without prompting by the bot open a conversation window at step so that the user can interact with the bot. For example a user may be at work and realize that a particular program of interest is going to be broadcast while they are still at work. In this case the user can access their instant messaging application and click on the TVBuddy icon to open a conversation window with the bot. Once opened the user can use the conversation window to remotely make their programming recording selection.

Step receives information from the bot pertaining to media that can be consumed by the user. This information can comprise any suitable type of information examples of which are given above. In addition this information can be received using any suitable techniques. For example such information can be received via the conversation window that was opened in step . Alternately or additionally the information can be received via an activity window such as the one described above. The information that is received might for example be update information that keeps the user informed of the bot s success in accomplishing user defined tasks i.e. successfully set to Record Gonzaga basketball game . Alternately or additionally such information might be presented in the form of a menu or indication of options that are available for the user.

Step responds to and interacts with the bot. This step can be performed in any suitable way. For example the user might simply textually engage the bot in a conversation window. Alternately or additionally the user might both conversationally engage the bot as well as engage an activity window to take some action. Examples of such actions include by way of example and not limitation scheduling the device to record a program searching for programming to record performing management functions on the device deleting recorded programs managing disk space scheduling activities reporting usage viewing activity etc. setting up program reminders setting up on going programming searches remotely viewing trailers of programs of interest or identified by the bot as being potentially of interest and the like.

As can be appreciated from the above discussion using an application or bot in connection with a presence based network to enable a user to remotely access and interact with a device such as a television or entertainment device can provide the user with utilities and functionalities that greatly enhance the user s media consumption experience. Remote access enhances user convenience and provides a degree of flexibility that can permit the user to make programming choices and take related actions whenever they wish to without requiring them to be physically present at the device.

It is to be appreciated and understood that any suitable application or bot can be utilized to provide the functionality described above as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan. But one example of such a bot is provided just below.

In this example bot includes components that can implement the functionality described above. It is to be appreciated and understood that the specifically illustrated bot constitutes but one exemplary bot that can implement the functionality described above. Accordingly other bots can be utilized without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter.

In this particular example bot includes by way of example and not limitation a communication protocol component one or more plug in components a controller component a natural language processor a core API component and a reporting component that utilizes a data store . A management console is also provided.

Communication protocol component is configured to communicate with the presence network and client application executing on the remote computing device. Component handles all conversational aspects and capabilities. Any suitable communication protocol can be utilized. In the instant messaging embodiments the protocol includes peer to peer capabilities.

Plug in components can comprise any suitable components that provide additional functionality outside of the bot core. Examples can include by way of example and not limitation chat room support components access to external data sources like flight reservation systems public forums to access FAQs gamer tag information such as that from Microsoft s Xbox Live and the like.

Controller component is configured to control and provide control functionality for bot . This can include communicating with a management console to allow the bot to be programmed and reconfigured as desired. Controller component can allow for bots to be started and stopped track how many users are utilizing the presence network show which plug ins are available and what services have been enabled to leverage with the core API component discussed below.

Natural language processor can comprise any suitable natural language processor. In some embodiments the natural language processor is based on a scripted markup language which allows it to receive a request as from communication protocol component and then generate a response as will be appreciated by the skilled artisan.

Core APIs comprise a collection of APIs that are utilized to access or leverage outside services. That is the core APIs are configured to leverage available services by making and receiving programmatic calls to and from components that make up such services. For example the core APIs can be used to access the user s device system that is being programmed using any suitable medium of communication various other services such as email and the like EPG services viewing habits services such as those provided by media service FIG. and the like.

Reporting component allows bot to pass information to data store . This information can comprise any suitable type of information such as information about the bot s communication with various users the various uses of the plug ins and the like.

In operation when a user engages a bot through for example an instant messaging application executing on their remote computing device the user s communication whether textual VoIP voice clips is received via communication protocol and processed by natural language processor . In some instances the natural language processor may include or otherwise have access to the services of a text to speech and or speech to text module. For example if the user s communication is received in the form of a voice clip then the natural language processor may utilize a speech to text module to translate the speech into text. Similarly responses generated by the natural language processor may then be translated from text to speech and then sent to the user. Such modules are known and for the sake of brevity are not described in additional detail.

Once the natural language processor processes the user s communication the core APIs can be leveraged to access the appropriate services in responding to the user. For example if the user s communication indicates that the user wishes to remotely program or otherwise access their device then the core APIs can be utilized to access the device. Alternately or additionally if the user wishes to access EPG data to see which programs are available then the core APIs can be utilized to access an appropriate EPG service. Further if a user wishes to access their viewing habits or those of their contacts then the core APIs can be utilized to access the viewing habits. This notion is explored in more detail below in the section entitled Social Networking .

Because the presence network supports the notion of contacts and because the network has access to services that can maintain users viewing habits a bot can have the ability to access the viewing habits of all of a user s contacts assuming of course that a particular contact has elected to allow such access . This can provide the opportunity for a rich and robust sharing experience. For example in some scenarios a bot can show a particular user s contacts which movies that user is or will be watching in the future and vice versa. For example a user may ask a bot What is Bob watching now or what movies is Bob going to watch this week By having access to Bob s viewing habit information the bot can then reflect this information back to the user.

In at least some embodiments this social networking functionality can be accessed in a couple of different ways. For example in some scenarios the user can simply engage the bot in a conversation as in the example above. Alternately or additionally the user can click on a web window that represents a contact which would then alert the bot to the fact that the user desires to learn some information about Bob s viewing habits. In this case the bot can begin feeding information to the user or otherwise intelligently expose the user to other cross referenced information. For example the bot may provide a list of movies that Bob is scheduled to view and may then responsive to this list provide the user with a listing of movies that Bob may not necessarily be scheduled to view but which share a genre of the movies that Bob is scheduled to view.

Hence in this embodiment the bot is employed as a context discovery mechanism in which the context of a user s contacts can be discovered in relation to their interaction with a service such as a television or gaming service. This enables other users to discover their contacts habits even when their contacts are offline.

Various embodiments described above utilize a real time instant messaging or presence based communications service as a mechanism to control the operation programming and review of media content on a device or system such as a television media center gaming device digital video recorder mobile device for consuming media and the like.

In addition the use of the instant messaging or presence based communication system opens up various social networking options for users. For example users can if allowed gain access to the viewing habits of individuals in their contact list and exchange information with one another to provide a rich robust sharing environment. Alternately or additionally the user can publish their own viewing habits information such as preferences recommendations and the like.

Although the invention has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological steps it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or steps described. Rather the specific features and steps are disclosed as preferred forms of implementing the claimed invention.

