---

title: High speed laser perforation of cigarette tipping paper
abstract: A system and method for controlling a cigarette tipping paper perforation process includes supplying the paper in the form of a flexible web from a supply spindle that is mounted for powered angular rotation to a take-up spindle that receives a portion of the flexible web, and the take-up spindle also being mounted for powered angular rotation. A laser beam generator provides at least one laser beam through a series of optics that can include a laser beam expander or contractor, a rotating multi-faceted mirror, collimating lenses and downstream focusing lenses that focus the plurality of laser output beams received from the rotating multi-faceted mirror to burn a plurality of holes in the flexible web of cigarette paper. A control device controls the angular rotation of the supply spindle, the angular rotation of the take-up spindle, tension of the web, laser power and rotation of the multi-faceted mirror.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07393313&OS=07393313&RS=07393313
owner: Philip Morris USA Inc.
number: 07393313
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060822
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 649 789 entitled HIGH SPEED LASER PERFORATION OF CIGARETTE TIPPING PAPER filed on Aug. 28 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 094 193 issued on Aug. 22 2006 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

During cigarette manufacturing long rolls of paper provided on spools or bobbins are used and processed to form the cigarettes. The cigarettes use substantial amounts of the paper as a wrapper to enclose filter tow material as filters and to tip filters onto columns of wrapped tobacco. The various manufacturing functions that are performed to the paper can include perforation either mechanically or by thermal energy transfer e.g. focused laser energy printing embossing slitting or other comparable functions on the paper or other flexible webs of material. The following patents are directed to various aspects of these manufacturing functions and are hereby incorporated in their entireties by reference. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 226 527 3 965 327 4 121 595 4 265 254 4 404 454 5 210 390 5 259 401 5 341 824 and 5 367 144.

In performing manufacturing functions such as perforation of the paper used in making the cigarettes the rolls of paper are generally unwound from bobbins or spindles of the paper the perforation process is performed upon the paper and a new bobbin or spindle is formed by winding the processed paper on a new hollow bobbin core. The paper is unwound from one bobbin processed by undergoing various operations such as perforation and then rewound onto another bobbin at very high rates of speed. The very high rates of speed at which paper is processed up to 1525 meters per minute or 5000 feet per minute during these manufacturing operations requires the use of high speed analog and digital controls that can synchronize the movement of the paper with operations such as laser perforation that are being performed on the moving paper. U.S. Pat. No. 5 944 278 which is incorporated herein by reference discloses a method and apparatus for reducing the amount of waste that can result during the startup of a web of paper in high speed manufacturing processes which involve laser perforation or other processes.

A system and method for controlling a perforation process according to an embodiment of the invention processes paper or other suitable flexible web material from a supply bobbin or spindle of the flexible web material such as cigarette tipping paper used in manufacturing cigarettes. The supply spindle is mounted for powered angular rotation. A take up bobbin or spindle for receiving a portion of the flexible web from the supply spindle is also mounted for powered angular rotation. A laser beam generator is provided with the laser beam generator being adapted to produce one or more laser beams. At least one multi faceted mirror or multiplexer mirror is positioned in the path of a laser beam emitted from the laser beam generator with the multi faceted mirror being driven to rotate thereby dividing the laser beam into a plurality of output beams that are scanned across additional downstream optics and focused by focusing lenses to burn a plurality of holes in the paper or other flexible web material. A control device controls the angular rotation of the supply spindle and the take up spindle the drive unit that rotates the multi faceted mirror and the power supplied to the laser beam generator in response to sensor input and control output.

According to an embodiment of the invention control of the laser beam used in perforating the paper is achieved with a number of components including a plurality of shutter assemblies that are positioned in the paths of laser output beams. In one embodiment of the invention the laser output beams are reflected from the multiplexer mirror and scanned across a series of collimating lenses before reaching the shutter assemblies. The shutter assemblies include portions that can be selectively adjusted into or out of the paths of the output beams to allow all or a portion of each of the output beams to pass through apertures in the shutter assemblies before reaching additional downstream optics that direct and focus the output beams onto the paper to produce holes in the paper.

In an embodiment of the invention the array of optics used to control the laser beam that burns holes in the paper or other flexible web material includes adjustable optics such as an adjustable beam expander or an adjustable beam concentrator which are placed in the path of the laser beam before the laser beam is reflected and divided by the multiplexer mirror into a plurality of laser output beams.

The laser perforation of the paper can result in a build up of dust on the guide rollers over which the paper is passed at very high speeds during the perforation process. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention this dust can be removed from the rollers through the use of doctor blades that can be selectively adjusted into contact with the rollers during the manufacturing process.

Referring initially to a system according to an embodiment of the invention is shown for controlling the perforation process performed by a high speed cigarette tipping paper laser perforator. The embodiment of the system is shown to include two laser beam multiplexer mirrors . The laser beam multiplexer mirrors are multi faceted mirrors that receive focused laser beams from laser beam generator . Multiplexer mirror is driven to rotate by a motor and multiplexer mirror is driven to rotate by a motor such that the focused laser beams are divided into a plurality of laser output beams that are scanned across additional downstream optics before being focused to burn holes in the paper . The embodiment shown in controls aspects of the laser perforation process including the speed at which the paper is unwound from a bobbin and rewound onto a rewind bobbin the frequency or rate of rotation of the laser multiplexer mirrors and the power intensity of the laser beams . The controls implemented on the various components of the system shown in enable laser perforation of the paper consistently at very high speeds up to 1525 meters per minute or 5000 feet per minute and throughout the total length of the paper .

The controls implemented by the various components of the system shown in enable control of three major characteristics of a tipping paper perforation process. These characteristics include the paper web processing speeds the number of perforated holes per inch burned into the paper and the physical size of the holes. The process is controlled throughout the winding and rewinding of the paper web . By accurately controlling the process through the accelerating and decelerating of the paper web as it is unwound from one bobbin and rewound onto another bobbin all or nearly all of the material on the finished rewound bobbin is product that meets the specifications.

As shown in the unwind bobbin is driven by an unwind motor that receives drive signals and provides feedback to an unwind drive while the rewind bobbin is driven by a rewind motor that receives drive signals and provides feedback signals to a rewind drive . The paper web passes from the unwind bobbin over a tension roller and additional guide rollers and before being rewound on the rewind bobbin . In the embodiment of a tension controller is also provided to control the tension by movement of tension roller

Multiplexer drives send drive signals to the multiplexer drive motors respectively and receive feedback from these motors. Control signals are provided to and feedback received from these multiplexer drives by a high speed analog control which makes up part of a control unit . The control unit further includes the unwind drive controller rewind drive controller and a high speed digital motion controller that receives signals from and sends signals to the unwind drive controller rewind drive controller and a programmable logic controller . The programmable logic controller also receives signals from various machine controls as well as control signals from an operator interface .

The high speed digital motion controller develops the acceleration constant velocity deceleration profiles for the rewind motor and unwind motor . This motor system controls the speed at which paper web is driven from standstill to full speed and then back to standstill. One or both of the motors are provided with precise position encoders that provide feedback signals to the high speed digital motion controller through the unwind drive and rewind drive . The drive signals generated by this high speed digital motion controller are then fed back through the drive controllers to the motion control system including unwind motor and rewind motor . The precise position encoders provide actual speed and position data back to the drive system for precise control of the web speed. From this signal an actual speed reference is developed internally to the drive system.

In the system shown in two independent multiplexer mirrors are utilized to divide the incoming laser beams into multiple output beams. The rotational speed of the multiplexer mirrors and the speed of the paper web dictates the actual number of perforated holes per inch that will be burned into the paper web by focusing lenses. A typical number of holes per inch used when producing the tipping paper for manufacture of cigarettes can fall within the range from 10 holes per inch to 115 holes per inch.

In an embodiment of the invention a rewind actual speed reference signal as determined by the high speed digital motion controller is used to develop the actual speed command for both multiplexer mirrors . As an example the multiplexer motors may have a minimum speed of 100 revolutions per second or hertz and a maximum speed of 1100 hertz in an application wherein holes are perforated in cigarette tipping paper. In this example during normal operation when no paper is being processed the multiplexer mirrors are driven by the multiplexer motors to revolve at 100 hertz. As the process starts the rate of travel of the paper being unwound from unwind bobbin and rewound onto rewind bobbin is accelerated at a linear rate.

Switchover speed is the point where the multiplexer base speed of 100 hertz and the paper web speed result in the desired number of holes per inch. When this switchover speed is reached individual laser beam shutter assemblies which will be described in more detail below are open and allow the multiple laser output beams to perforate the moving web . As the process continues the paper web is accelerated to its maximum speed by controlling the rates at which the unwind bobbin and the rewind bobbin are rotated and the frequency of rotation of both multiplexer mirrors is also accelerated to match the speed of the paper until the maximum constant velocity is reached. Since the paper is generally accelerated at a linear rate the rate at which the multiplexer mirrors are rotated is also increased at a linear rate to match the acceleration of the paper. As the process nears completion the paper web is then decelerated with the multiplexer frequencies also being decelerated at the same rate as the paper until the 100 hertz switchover speed is reached. At the 100 hertz switchover speed the shutter assemblies are again closed and the paper continues to slow to a standstill while the multiplexer mirrors rotate at 100 hertz.

In an embodiment of the invention the rewind actual speed reference signal determined by the high speed digital motion controller is used to develop the power signals sent by high speed analog control to the laser controls which control laser beam generator and produce output laser beams . The outputs of laser beams are controlled independently from each other. A 0 to 10 volt analog signal from the high speed analog control commands power for the lasers from a minimum to a maximum amount of power. In an application developed for perforating cigarette tipping paper such as in the embodiment shown in a 0 volt analog signal from the high speed analog control commands 0 watts of power at the laser beam generator while a 10 volt analog signal from the high speed analog control commands 1800 watts of power at the laser beam generator . In normal operation when no paper is being processed the laser power is commanded at approximately 500 watts. This power setting keeps the internal laser optics and power monitoring components within laser control at a stable temperature. This minimizes any power overshoot as the laser power is ramped to as high as 1800 watts. Power overshoot that could result if the internal laser optics and power monitoring components were not maintained at a stable temperature could result in variation in the hole size perforated by focusing lenses . . . as shown in through the paper web .

When the process for perforating the paper web is started and the paper web is ready to be accelerated the laser power command signal is dropped to the required value for producing the correctly sized holes at the switchover speed set point i.e. the speed where the process begins to perforate the paper. This power setting is normally less than 50 watts. Even though the paper web is accelerated at a linear rate from standstill to full speed the laser power command signal must be controlled based on a complex quadratic equation taking into account the actual speed of the paper as monitored and controlled by the high speed digital motion controller . The resulting laser control signals sent to laser control determine the amount of power supplied to the laser beam generator for controlling output laser beams . The control of the laser power based upon a complex quadratic equation is required as a result of variables that include but are not limited to the responsiveness of the laser beam generator and the offset between commanded power and actual power produced at the laser beam generator.

As the paper web is decelerated the laser power is controlled until the web speed drops below the switchover point. At the switchover point the paper is no longer perforated and the paper web is almost stopped. Once the web is at a standstill the laser power is commanded back to its standstill power level of 500 watts until the process is restarted. The minimum and maximum power values provided to the lasers are a variable of the process and the specification of the product that is being processed. Parameters such as paper basis weight process speed permeability of the paper as measured in CORESTA units and the number of holes per inch all factor into determining the desired laser power settings.

The optics that are provided in the paths of laser beams allow for additional control of the perforating process. The paper processing speed and the speed at which the multiplexer mirrors are rotated dictates the number of holes per inch that each burn head or final focusing lens . . . can perforate. The laser power that reaches the final focusing lenses controls the size of the holes that are created during the perforation process. Significant benefits can be realized if the number of burn heads or focusing lenses used is limited. The paper speed of the process and the number of holes per inch can be increased when fewer burn heads are used. Additional optics that can be positioned downstream of the multiplexer mirror to further control the laser perforating process are illustrated in FIGS. and A E and additional optics that can be placed upstream of the multiplexer mirror are illustrated in .

Referring to a high powered laser beam such as the laser beam generated by a PRC 3000 watt fast flow D mode CO2 laser PRC Corporation Landing N.J. is focused by an optical lens onto the multiplexer mirror such as shown in . Each facet of the multiplexer mirror creates a repeating arc of the laser radiation as the mirror rotates. The reflected laser beam sweeps across a series of collimating lenses . . .

Multiplexing systems such as the Baasel Multiplexer System Rofm Baasel Laser Tech Munich Germany can multiplex or divide the incoming laser beam into a minimum of four laser output beams to a maximum of sixteen laser output beams. The number of facets on the multiplexer mirror controls this process. The period of time that each collimating lens . . . is exposed to the laser radiation is significantly affected when different numbers of laser output beams are created. As an example if the multiplexer mirror creates an arc of laser radiation that covers only four collimating lenses the effect is that twenty five percent of the scan period is spent on one collimating lens. However if the multiplexer mirror creates an arc that covers collimating lenses the effect is that 6.25 percent of the scan period is spent on one collimating lens. A greater number of facets on the multiplexer mirror at the same rotational speed for the mirror results in a reduced period of time that the laser output beam is focused by the final focusing lenses . . . . The difference in scan period and therefore the amount of time that the output beam is focused has an impact on the shape of the holes that are vaporized in the moving paper web .

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention as shown in FIGS. and A E shutter assemblies . . . are positioned downstream from the collimating lenses . . . such that the laser output beams pass through individual shutter assemblies before entering the final acceptance section including bending mirrors . . . and . . . and before passing through final focusing lenses or burn heads . . . to perforate holes in the paper web .

The shutter assemblies . . . are actuated by air cylinders such as air cylinder shown in such that they either completely block the laser output beams from multiplexer mirror and collimating lenses . . . or are moved to a position wherein apertures of the shutter assemblies shown in are aligned with the laser output beams and allow them to pass. Alternative arrangements for moving the shutter assemblies could include stepper motors hydraulic actuators or other known actuation devices. When the shutter assemblies are moved by air cylinders such that the apertures are not aligned with the laser output beams the laser output beams are absorbed by carbon blocks attached to the opposite ends of the shutter assemblies from the apertures . The energy absorbed by the carbon blocks is transferred to an aluminum heat sink and aluminum plate with the aluminum plate being provided with cooling passages in order to dissipate the heat absorbed from the laser output beam. A temperature sensor is attached to the aluminum plate of the shutter assembly as shown in to ensure that cooling fluid is being pumped through the cooling passageways in order to cool the aluminum plate. The temperature sensor monitors the temperature of the shutter assembly and shuts down the laser perforation process if the temperatures get too high.

The programmable logic controller shown in controls operation of the air cylinders and thereby moves the shutter assemblies between a position wherein the apertures are aligned with laser output beams and a position wherein the laser output beams are completely absorbed by carbon blocks .

As shown in an embodiment of the invention includes two holes drilled through the aluminum heat sink positioned between the carbon block and the top plate of the shutter assemblies with two eccentric shafts and installed through these two holes in the aluminum heat sink . The two eccentric shafts and have off centered rods that extend from the side of aluminum heat sink toward aperture and support carbon tabs and as shown in . The eccentric shafts are rotated to a desired position and locked in place by locknuts and . The locknuts and are threaded over threaded ends of the eccentric shafts and with the threaded ends of the eccentric shafts also being provided with slots and that facilitate adjustment of the position of the eccentric shafts such as when the shafts are too hot to be handled manually.

In the position shown in the eccentric shafts have been rotated to a position wherein the carbon tabs do not block any of the aperture and therefore maximize the period of time that an output beam being scanned across the shutter assembly by rotation of multiplexer mirror will be able to pass through the aperture for downstream focusing and perforation of paper . In the position shown in the eccentric shafts and have been rotated to a position wherein carbon tabs and block at least a portion of apertures thereby reducing the period of time that the laser output beam will be able to pass through aperture in the shutter assembly for downstream focusing and perforation of holes in the paper . In the positions shown in wherein carbon tabs partially block the aperture the amount of laser energy that reaches the final focusing lenses for perforation of the paper is reduced from the amount of energy that is available when apertures of shutter assemblies . . . remain completely open as shown in .

The shutter assemblies shown in enable production of at least a substantially identical product on perforating machines that use different numbers of burn heads or final focusing lenses since adjustment of the carbon tabs such as discussed above allows the duty cycle or period of time that laser energy is available for focusing by the final focus lenses to remain constant regardless of how many burn heads are scanned by laser output beams from the multiplexer mirror. As an example a multiplexer mirror with fewer facets creates an arc of laser radiation wherein a larger percentage of the total scan period is spent on one collimating lens than would be the case for a multiplexer mirror with a greater number of facets. In this case the carbon tabs on the associated shutter assemblies could be adjusted to partially close the apertures in the shutter assemblies such that the period of time laser radiation is actually provided to the final focusing lenses remains the same as would be the case for a multiplexer mirror having the greater number of facets.

In the embodiment of the invention shown in additional optics can be provided upstream of the multiplexer mirror in order to control the amount of laser radiation that reaches the final focusing lenses and hence control the hole size and shape that is burned into the paper web . Control of the size of the laser beam being provided to the multiplexer mirror as shown in can be used to match the power density and mode of the laser beam to the system of lenses and mirrors that are provided downstream from the multiplexer mirror .

In the embodiment shown in a high powered laser beam such as one that could be generated by a PRC 3000 watt fast flow D mode CO2 laser PRC Corporation Landing N.J. enters the system through a tube or from a bending mirror assembly . Either a beam expander or a beam concentrator is positioned downstream from the bending mirror assembly with the beam expander concentrator being adjustable to allow a user to select a degree of concentration or enlargement of the incoming laser radiation. Depending on the requirements a user may enlarge the beam diameter to completely fill the lens or may choose to reduce the beam diameter. The lens then focuses the desired sized laser radiation onto the multiplexer mirror which is rotating at a very high speed. The rotating multiplexer mirror reflects and divides the laser beam to create a scanning array of laser output beams that are passed through collimating lenses . . . reflected by bending mirrors . . . and . . . and focused by final focusing lenses . . . to produce holes in the paper web .

The arrangement shown in allows matching of the incoming laser beam diameter to a particular array of optics including a multiplexer mirror and other downstream mirrors and lenses. As an example a given laser generator may be capable of producing three different types of laser beams. Beam number may be a 00 mode beam with 1200 watts of power and a 14 mm beam diameter. Beam number may be a D mode beam with 1700 watts of power and an 18 mm beam diameter. Beam number may be a Q mode beam with 2100 watts of power and a 24 mm beam diameter. To effectively use one of the three different beam profiles the optical multiplexing assembly including the multiplexer mirror and the downstream collimating lenses bending mirrors and focusing lenses could be fitted with a different selection of parts depending on which one of the three different beam profiles was desired. The selection of parts would ensure that the incoming beam matches the optical components following the collimating lenses.

In the embodiment shown in however a simple adjustment of the beam expander concentrator upstream of the multiplexer mirror results in a laser beam of the desired dimensions to match the optical characteristics of the existing system. With this embodiment the optical system components do not have to be changed to accommodate different beam profiles and therefore no further alignment is required. The arrangement shown in also provides the ability to fine tune the size of the laser radiation exiting the beam expander in order to control the final focal spot size. This is accomplished for example by making small adjustments to the overall length of the beam expander. This technique impacts the hole size and shape burned into the paper web . Alignment of the downstream optics is not changed by adjustments made at the beam expander concentrator and therefore potentially dangerous alignment procedures using the laser beam are not required each time the size of the incoming laser beam is changed.

During the process of perforating paper using laser beams that have been focused by focusing lenses . . . in a burn table region as shown in the web of paper is pulled across a series of rollers and the web is under high tension. These rollers and as shown in ensure that the paper web remains stable during the burning process and at an optimal focal distance from the focusing lenses. As a result of the vaporizing of paper that occurs when the laser beams are focused on the paper web ultra small holes are formed in the paper . If the paper web moves even the slightest amount during this process and thereby changes the focal distance between the focusing lenses and the paper in the burn table region the size and shape of the holes being burned in the paper would change. This change in hole size will effect the permeability of the paper.

The perforation process creates a dust residue that is molten hot and sticky. Because the rollers supporting the paper web are extremely close in proximity to the point where the laser beams burn the holes in the paper dust residue naturally builds up on the rollers. The linear speed of the paper can carry and drive this dust into the downstream rollers. Taking into account that up to 40 000 holes per second per laser focusing lens can be burned in the moving paper web the amount of dust build up can make the product being perforated unacceptable in less than one minute if the dust is allowed to build up on the rollers. Other build up on the rollers resulting from printing inks etc. can also cause the same problem by affecting the focal distance from the moving paper web to the focusing lenses.

In order to minimize the build up of dust or other residue on the rollers that may affect the size and shape of the holes burned in the moving paper web the embodiment of the invention illustrated in provides an arrangement for removing any build up from the rollers during the perforation process. As shown in the paper web is moved in a direction A over a roller in the burn table region shown in . The paper web travels at very high speeds e.g. 83 feet per second and is under extremely high tension as a result of the tension controller and roller shown in . As the paper web travels in the direction A output laser beams are focused by focusing lenses . . . being shown in with up to 110 holes per linear inch of travel per burn head or focusing lens being possible according to an embodiment of the invention.

As shown in the roller is downstream from the focusing lens in the direction of travel A of paper web and is accordingly bombarded with molten dust created by the laser perforation process.

The rollers such as roller shown in are manufactured to an extremely tight outside diameter tolerance then carbide coated and precisely ground. As shown in roller is driven in a counterclockwise direction relative to the travel of paper web and thereby carries dust away from the tangent point where the paper rests on the roller . As the roller rotates a stationary doctor blade s scrapes dust build up from the roller. In the embodiment shown in the doctor blade is assembled from five individual blades that are arranged in end to end relationship along a doctor blade cartridge . Because each blade works independently each blade contacts a smaller area on the roller . In an embodiment of the invention the individual blades are manufactured from high grade tool steel and after grinding they are heat treated by a quench and temper heat treatment in order to make the blades very hard e.g. over 60 Rockwell . Because the tempering process makes the blades very brittle two slots are formed in the center of each of blades . These slots minimize the load that the blades develop when they are in contact with the roller . To further alleviate any tendency for the blades .break as a result of their hardness engagement pressure against the roller and reduced material in the slot areas the blades are annealed in the region of the slots

As shown in the blade cartridge and blades are mounted on a pivoting holder that can be driven to rotate about an axis to bring the sharp edges of the blades into contact with roller . The entire assembly is positioned so that the tips of the blades are tangent to the roller . The setup shown in enables automatic cleaning of dust or other residue build up on the rollers during the laser perforation manufacturing process and therefore greatly improves the productivity over what could be achieved if the process had to be stopped so that the rollers could be cleaned manually.

It is to be understood that the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms and the process of use may be varied without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics of the present invention. Thus while the invention has been illustrated and described in accordance with various embodiments it is recognized that variations and changes may be made therein without departing from the invention as set forth in the claims.

