---

title: Explosive neutralizer and method
abstract: An explosive device includes a firing train, an explosive charge and a shock activated neutralizer configured to disable activation of the explosive charge by the firing train. The neutralizer includes a housing and a rupturable fluid barrier configured to selectively permit mixing of disabling material constituents to interact with the firing train to disable the same. A method of neutralizing an explosive device includes rupturing the fluid barrier, at least in part by applying a shock to the explosive device, and interacting the disabling material with the firing train to disable the same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07690287&OS=07690287&RS=07690287
owner: 
number: 07690287
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060718
---
The United States Government has certain rights in the present patent application and any patent that may issue thereon under Contract Number FA8651 05 C 0112.

The present disclosure relates generally to neutralizers for explosive devices and relates more particularly to an impact shock activated neutralizer configured to disable a lead energetic material of an explosive device firing train with a disabling material via rupturing of a fluid barrier.

Most conventional explosive devices such as explosive weapons are configured to detonate at a predetermined time or under predetermined conditions by dropping the device for example or via relatively highly sophisticated ignition timing and or triggering means. As is well known throughout the world however explosive devices do not always detonate when desired often due to failure of the firing mechanism or the absence of expected conditions conducive to detonation. Unexploded explosives can present a danger to all persons who may happen to come into contact with them during a military operation and even decades after suspension or resolution of an armed conflict. In particular disposal personnel and non combatants may be exposed to a substantial risk of death or dismemberment when engaging in activities within an initially failed explosive s zone of action. Even though explosives may fail to explode as intended the explosive charge s and firing mechanisms may remain susceptible to activation by a variety of external forces such as heat mechanical shock and other means. Cluster bombs which may leave numerous unexploded and widely dispersed bomblets pose a particular threat to non combatants residing in armed conflict zones. The global benefits of fail safe mechanisms for explosive devices are clear.

Over the years various systems have been proposed to address the foregoing problems. U.S. Pat. No. 6 539 872 to Tipkin represents one such strategy and is directed to fuze sterilization using a sacrificial anodic component. Tipkin proposes a method of fuze sterilization wherein a first component and a second component having a prescribed relationship required for proper detonation of the fuze are positioned in a fuze device. The first and second components are fabricated from materials having different galvanic potentials. An electrolyte introduced between the first and second component initiates galvanic corrosion of one of the components which may continue for a period of time until the prescribed relationship between the first and second components changes sufficiently to disable the detonation operation of the fuse. While Tipkin may be applicable to certain types of explosives and in certain environments its passive fuze disabling approach is not without shortcomings.

In one aspect the present disclosure provides a neutralizer for a firing train and the like of an explosive device. The neutralizer includes a housing adapted to couple with a portion of a firing train assembly and having therein a chamber for containing a disabling material. The neutralizer also includes a rupturable fluid barrier configured to inhibit interacting disabling material with the firing train. The barrier is configured to rupture responsive to an impact shock on the neutralizer to permit interacting of disabling material with the firing train to disable the same.

In another aspect the present disclosure provides an explosive device including a firing train an explosive charge and an impact shock activated neutralizer. The neutralizer is configured to disable activation of the explosive charge and includes a housing and a rupturable fluid barrier configured to selectively permit interacting of disabling material with the firing train to disable the same.

In still another aspect the present disclosure provides a method of neutralizing an explosive device. The method includes rupturing a fluid barrier configured to inhibit interacting of a disabling material with a firing train of the explosive device at least in part by applying a shock to the explosive device. The method also includes interacting the disabling material with the firing train of the explosive device to disable the same.

Referring to there is shown an explosive device according to one embodiment of the present disclosure. Explosive device may include at least one housing having therein a firing train assembly and a main charge . Firing train assembly may include a detonator a neutralizer and a booster charge . Neutralizer may comprise a shock activated neutralizer configured to directly or indirectly disable activation of main charge when explosive device does not explode when intended. Where explosive device consists of an aerial bomb missile shell or similar relatively long range explosive device the shock which activates neutralizer may consist of the impact shock experienced by explosive device upon striking a target. In alternative embodiments for example where explosive device consists of a stationary mechanically or electronically triggered explosive a different means for applying a shock may be employed. For instance where explosive device consists of a mine a mechanically actuated trigger might be used to apply an impact shock to neutralizer to activate the same. The present disclosure is contemplated to provide substantial improvements in neutralizing unexploded explosive devices via a variety of structural and operational designs as further described herein.

In the embodiment of neutralizer is configured to mechanically inhibit operation activation of firing train . Neutralizer may include a housing having therein a compartment wherein a lead energetic material or lead is disposed. Detonator may be configured to act upon lead to activate the same in a conventional manner such that lead may in turn activate booster material to explode main charge . A wide variety of lead energetic materials are known in the art and available from commercial sources and the present disclosure is not limited to any one material type or even class of material types. A variety of lead configurations may be implemented within the context of the present disclosure including pressed disks of lead material loose packed granular lead material or another lead material configuration. Similarly the materials selected for booster and main charge may be any suitable explosive materials.

Housing of neutralizer may further include another compartment wherein a disabling material is disposed which upon activation of neutralizer can interact with firing train to disable the same. To this end at least one reactant vessel for example first and second reactant vessels and may be disposed within compartment . Housing may comprise a substantially cylindrical metallic body configured such that compartment provides a substantially cylindrical space wherein lead energetic material is disposed. Compartment may provide another substantially cylindrical space generally coaxial with and extending about compartment . First and second reactant vessels and may also comprise generally cylindrical hollow bodies for example being generally doughnut shaped which are configured to fit within compartment and around compartment and stack one on top of the other. In an alternative embodiment reactant vessels and could be generally C shaped each fitting into a portion of compartment in a side by side manner. First reactant vessel may define a first chamber having therein a first constituent of disabling material whereas second reactant vessel may define a second chamber having therein a second constituent of disabling material. It should be appreciated that embodiments are contemplated wherein rather than separate reactant vessels and or the chamber s which contain disabling material might be defined by housing itself. For instance disabling material capable of interacting with lead material might be stored directly in compartment and selectively permitted to interact with lead material in a manner described herein. In one embodiment reactant vessels and may comprise rupturable glass ampules each fluidly containing a constituent of the disabling material the significance of which is further described herein.

Neutralizer may further comprise a rupturable fluid barrier configured to normally inhibit interacting of disabling material stored within neutralizer with firing train . In other words during storage and normal handling of explosive device the rupturable fluid barrier will prevent interacting of the disabling material with firing train . As used herein the term rupturable should be understood to mean that the fluid barrier can rupture more readily than other components of housing . In other words the fluid barrier will typically be configured to rupture responsive to an impact shock on explosive device and or neutralizer that will not rupture housing itself.

In the embodiment shown in reactant vessels and comprise the rupturable fluid barrier. In other words walls of reactant vessels and are configured to rupture responsive to a shock by colliding with one another colliding with internal walls or other structures of housing or by collapsing responsive to a sufficiently strong inertial shock. Reactant vessels and may be fabricated according to Military Standard 1316 Mil STD 1316 indicating generally that certain explosives components shall not be damaged or otherwise functionally altered via the forces experienced from a five feet or higher drop onto a hard surface. In alternative embodiments for instance where disabling constituents are stored directly in compartment of housing the rupturable barrier might comprise a single wall between the constituents or between the disabling material and lead material . Second reactant vessel may further include a weakened wall comprising the rupturable fluid barrier configured to permit disabling material to exit reactant vessel . First reactant vessel could similarly be configured with a weakened wall not shown . Where reactant vessels and are generally uniform i.e. without weakened portions the rupturable fluid barrier may comprise the entirety of each of reactant vessels and .

As alluded to above neutralizer is configured to mechanically interact with firing train in particular lead material to disable explosive device . To this end neutralizer may include a displaceable covering extending over an end of compartment . Displaceable covering may comprise a metallic panel for example a corrugated panel or another covering such as a bellows that is configured to move via stretching unfolding etc. responsive to intrusion of activated disabling material into a gap G between lead material and covering .

Turning to there is shown neutralizer approximately as it would appear in an activated state wherein disabling material has intruded between covering and lead material . Activating of disabling material constituents stored in chambers and can effectively generate a mechanical barrier to stop the active effects of detonator on lead material . To this end the disabling material may comprise a foamable curable material such as liquid polyurethane and an activator material such as water which together can react generating an expanding foam that pushes covering upwardly. The foam may in turn cure and thereby form a hardened permanent barrier to disable firing train and thus explosive device .

Turning to there is shown a portion of another explosive device having a firing train according to another embodiment of the present disclosure. Firing train may include a detonator similar to detonator of the embodiment and may further also include a lead having lead energetic material stored within a lead housing . Firing train also includes a neutralizer having certain similarities with neutralizer of but also important differences. Like neutralizer neutralizer is configured to mechanically inhibit its associated firing train . Neutralizer also includes a displaceable element however rather than a displaceable covering or the like as in neutralizer the displaceable element of neutralizer may comprise a single stroke piston configured to move responsive to activation of expanding foaming material which moves piston to block action of detonator on lead . An approximate displaced position of piston is shown in phantom in such that it will intercept activation output of detonator prior to acting on lead .

Piston may be positioned within a housing or body having a piston guide plate at one end thereof with a tang for assisting in assembling neutralizer and or mounting with a portion of firing train . Piston guide plate may comprise an aperture not shown that is generally complementary to piston such that when piston moves to a position at which it blocks activating of detonator it can be readily and reliably guided. Piston may further comprise a sealing portion also configured to assist in guiding travel of piston but also providing a fluid seal for a first chamber in cooperation with an O ring for example. First chamber may comprise a chamber for containing a constituent of disabling material defined by internal walls of housing . Neutralizer may also include a second chamber for containing another constituent of disabling material for example defined by a reactant vessel . Reactant vessel may comprise a glass vessel such as an ampule and may also include a rupturable fluid barrier configured to rupture responsive to an impact shock on neutralizer such that constituents contained within chambers and can mix and activate to interact with and disable firing train . Reactant vessel may be mounted to piston via a seat which may comprise a fluidly sealed seat forming a seal on an open end of reactant vessel .

Neutralizer may further include a base plate having a strike point or nose configured to break reactant vessel when a shock is applied to neutralizer . In one embodiment piston may have enough freedom of movement within housing to allow nose and reactant vessel to contact when a sufficient impact shock is applied to neutralizer . In other embodiments base plate might itself move to rupture reactant vessel or some other means of rupturing reactant vessel and its associated rupturable fluid barrier might be provided.

A first constituent of disabling material such as a foamable curable material similar to that described above with regard to neutralizer may be positioned within chamber . A second constituent such as an activator material also similar to that described above with regard to neutralizer may be positioned within chamber such that upon rupturing of the fluid barrier separating the respective chambers an expanding foam may be generated to drive piston toward the position shown in phantom at which it blocks acting of detonator on lead . Subsequent curing of the foamed disabling material will substantially lock piston in its blocking position. In either of the presently described embodiments utilizing a foamable curable material the cured foam may occupy approximately one to two times its original uncured volume.

Turning now to there is shown a neutralizer according to yet another embodiment of the present disclosure. It should be appreciated that although neutralizer is shown in the particular context of a specific embodiment the general design and configuration of certain of its components may be similar to that implemented in neutralizer of . Neutralizer shares certain features with the foregoing embodiments namely in that neutralizer is impact shock activated but also has important differences particularly in that neutralizer is configured to chemically disable activation of a lead material with a detonator.

Neutralizer may include a housing comprising a generally cylindrical periphery or peripheral wall and also including an internal wall . Housing may include a cover plate defining a detonator strike zone corresponding generally to a position of lead in housing . A first reactant vessel and a second reactant vessel may be disposed in a space or chamber defined between wall and peripheral wall and defining first and second chambers and respectively. Each of reactant vessels and may be configured to rupture responsive to a shock on neutralizer such that their contents can mix and interact with lead to disable the same. Thus each of reactant vessels and may comprise glass ampules or the like including weakened portions if desired and including one or more rupturable fluid barriers.

A first constituent of disabling material may be positioned within first chamber whereas a second constituent of disabling material may be positioned within second chamber . Inner wall may include therein at least one aperture for example a plurality of apertures configured to permit disabling material to interact with lead material upon rupturing of the fluid barrier. In other words when the materials contained within reactant vessels and are allowed to mix or are otherwise activated or released holes will provide a path by which disabling material can fluidly contact lead material to disable the same.

In one embodiment one of reactant vessels and will contain a solvent material such as water and the other of reactant vessels and will contain a solute material such as dry sodium hydroxide. Upon rupturing of the fluid barrier of neutralizer the solvent and solute can mix to create a liquid solution that flows via holes to contact lead material and dissolve or otherwise chemically disable activation thereof via a detonator. In constructing neutralizer the relative fluid volume resulting from mixing of the constituents of the disabling material should be selected such that fluid contact via holes will occur regardless of the orientation of an explosive device utilizing neutralizer . This concept will apply broadly to all embodiments in that orientation of an unexploded explosive device should not substantially affect operation of the neutralizer.

It should further be appreciated that the particular chemical formulation chosen to interact with lead material will depend upon the selected lead material. Certain lead materials are relatively more inert than others and have different chemical properties. Thus acidic solvents might be used rather than caustics. Similarly rather than dissolving the lead energetic material certain lead materials may be rendered inert via other types of chemical treatment and or chemically induced physical changes such as liquefaction gasification or decomposition. It may also be desirable for the chemicals used in each of the embodiments described herein to be active over a range of temperatures such that disposition of an explosive device in a particularly hot environment versus a particularly cold environment will not substantially affect the ability of the neutralizer to function. In the embodiments described herein chemical reaction between disabling material and lead material will typically take place via hydrolysis of the lead material in about one day or less at room temperature.

The present disclosure will provide significant advantages over known designs for disabling neutralizing explosive devices and is contemplated to be applicable to a wide variety of explosives both in terms of configuration and neutralizing effectiveness. The present disclosure will be applicable to substantially all explosive devices relying upon a fuze for activation. Rather than a passive disabling system that relies upon the passage of an uncertain amount of time or manual intervention to render certain components of an explosive device inoperative the present disclosure provides an active method of relatively rapidly inhibiting operation of an explosive device when the device fails. Interaction of disabling material with a firing train may also take place via direct means e.g. chemically attacking or otherwise modifying the lead energetic material or mechanically blocking the firing train via the disabling material or via indirect means such as by displacing a member into the firing train or otherwise blocking action of a firing train on a booster charge or main charge of an explosive device.

Most explosives for weapons or engineering purposes such as blasting are intended to detonate relatively rapidly when activating conditions are provided typically on the order of a few milliseconds. The neutralizing devices and methods of the present disclosure are each specifically designed to disable such explosive devices in a period that is longer than the intended detonation time. For instance while mixing foaming interaction with the firing train and ultimately curing of the disabling material in the embodiments will indeed take place relatively rapidly an obligate delay is built into the strategy that is longer than the time normally required for activation and detonation of a conventional explosive device. Similarly a certain amount of time albeit typically relatively short will be required for disabling of the lead material where chemical disabling is used. In this manner neutralizers of the present disclosure will tend not to disable conventional explosive devices until the devices have had an opportunity to operate as intended. The neutralizers described herein are also relatively small and compatible with existing explosive device designs essentially as a drop in component configured to couple with other portions of a firing train assembly. Embodiments are also contemplated wherein an explosive device has an external indicator such as a color coded or LCD window which changes state in a user perceptible manner upon activation of the neutralizer.

The present description is for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to narrow the breadth of the present disclosure in any way. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications might be made to the presently disclosed embodiments without departing from the full and fair scope of the present disclosure. For example while it is contemplated that chemical foaming will provide a practical implementation strategy where mechanical interruption of an explosive firing train is desired other approaches might be used within the context of the present disclosure such as compressed gas within a rupturable canister. Further still while the foregoing description of a neutralizer acting via chemical means emphasizes the use of separate reactants constituents it should be appreciated that a single disabling material which is capable of acting on the lead material in a desired manner might be used. Moreover rather than a chemical contacting the lead material via housing apertures the chemicals might dissolve a fluid barrier such as a foil positioned about the lead material. The present disclosure contemplates any means of directly or indirectly interacting with a firing train to disable the same via rupturing of a rupturable fluid barrier responsive to an impact shock. Other aspects features and advantages will be apparent upon an examination of the attached drawings and appended claims.

