---

title: Media sharing and authoring on the web
abstract: Exemplary media browsing, searching and authoring tools allow for media interaction over a web. An exemplary method includes acquiring digital video data, coding the digital video data using scalable video coding to generate scalable coded digital video data, analyzing the scalable coded digital video data using one or more video filters to generate information pertaining to the scalable coded digital video data and providing web access to the information. Various other exemplary technologies are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08180826&OS=08180826&RS=08180826
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08180826
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060414
---
This application claims priority to a US Provisional application having Ser. No. 60 731 780 entitled Media Sharing and Authoring on the Web filed Oct. 31 2005 which is incorporated by reference herein. This application is related to US application having Ser. No. 10 286 348 entitled Systems and Methods for Automatically Editing a Video filed Nov. 1 2002 US application having Ser. No. 11 254 843 entitled Architecture for Scalable Video Coding Applications filed Nov. 20 2005 US application having Ser. No. 11 263 718 entitled Template Based Multimedia Authoring and Sharing filed Nov. 1 2005 US application having Ser. No. 11 275 400 entitled Dynamic Search with Implicit User Intention Mining filed Dec. 29 2005 and US application having Ser. No. 11 263 081 entitled Capture intention Detection For Video Content Analysis filed Oct. 31 2005. All of these related applications are incorporated by reference herein.

Many consider search technology a key to navigating the Internet s growing media video audio image collections. Further as media becomes available in different forms types quality content etc. a need arises for search capabilities to navigate and identify particular media. Yet further to promote widespread distribution of content technology should consider authoring capabilities that can facilitate such distribution as well as searching and browsing capabilities. Video presents perhaps the greatest challenge due to size quality and codec concerns not to mention video with accompanying audio. As described herein various exemplary technologies address media e.g. video audio image etc. authoring sharing searching and browsing needs and or other needs.

An exemplary system operates in conjunction with the Web or other networked environment for media sharing and authoring. In an end to end implementation example such a system includes various exemplary technologies for scalable video coding multimedia content analysis and template based media authoring. A scalable video codec addresses data transmission concerns multimedia content analysis features facilitate video editing and metadata generation where desired and template based media authoring reduces workload of media sharing and authoring. Various examples are described herein as operating in conjunction with the Internet to demonstrate effectiveness of the exemplary system and various exemplary technologies.

Exemplary search and related technologies described herein can help in navigating the Internet s growing media e.g. video audio image etc. collections or resources. Various exemplary technologies provide for efficient and scalable video authoring browsing and sharing of media on the Web.

The description that follows includes the best mode currently contemplated. The technology described herein pertains generally to information interfaces and presentation of information multimedia information systems e.g. video audio etc. artificial intelligence for vision and scene understanding e.g. video analysis etc. . Various exemplary technologies pertain to video editing multimedia content analysis multimedia sharing multimedia management and or template based video authoring. Various algorithms are disclosed that may be implemented through use of hardware and typically software.

Various exemplary technologies may be implemented through use of components in a computing environment such as a system of computers connected by one or more networks.

The recent introduction and rapid adoption of consumer digital photo cameras and video camcorders has redefined the landscape for media photo and video management authoring editing and sharing tools. Existing video editing tools can be roughly classified into two categories. One is high end professional editing systems while he other is middle or low end editing tools.

While some flexibility and editing power exists with the first category of editing tools users often require complex editing skills and aesthetic sense. At the same time to learn such tools can require great effort on behalf of a user. Further in using such tools the task of video editing remains time consuming and tedious.

With respect to the second category of editing tools such tools can make the task of video editing much easier due to support for automatic video editing methods driven by intelligent multimedia content analysis technologies. Further some automatic or semi automatic editing methods are available.

With respect to examples of tools a suitability tool provides for detection of suitable video media clips according to numerical unsuitability scores. Such a tool allows for organization of suitable clips by the users in a storyboard and also allows for automatic concatenation to produce a final video. In another example an automatic music video generation tool provides for content selection based on calculation of video unsuitability relating to camera motion and image contrast. An automated home video editing scheme provides tools for dynamic highlighting of home video content by selecting desirable high quality clips and linking them with transition effects and incidental music.

As an example of an automated video editing scheme one or more tools allow for extraction of sub shots from video and calculation of importance measures for at least a portion of the extracted sub shots. A tool may then determine respective relative distributions for sub shots having relatively higher importance measures as compared to importance measures of other sub shots. In such an example based on the determined relative distributions sub shots that do not exhibit a uniform distribution with respect to other sub shots in the particular ones may be dropped while remaining sub shots e.g. connected by respective shot transitions may be used to form a video summary. A tool may provide for addition of an independent music source e.g. as incidental music for example by aligning the sub shot boundaries with the music beats and matching sub shot motion intensities with the music moods.

The size of media data typically quite large can hinder sharing of personal media. Authoring based sharing i.e. sharing the authored summarized media can significantly reduce the burden of data transmission however it is still far from being fully realized due to lack of suitable media authoring tools and sharing platforms.

Various exemplary technologies described herein can be arranged to create an exemplary web based scheme or system for media authoring. Such an exemplary system can enable users to efficiently share and author personal media on the Web. As already mentioned an exemplary system may include the following three component technologies scalable video coding intelligent multimedia content analysis and template based media authoring.

As discussed herein scalable video codec addresses data transmission multimedia content analysis facilitates automatic video editing and template based media authoring reduces workload of media sharing and authoring. Web based media authoring can provide a wider space for average users to share their media experiences as well as a broader channel for users to obtain raw media materials for further applications.

With respect to scalable video coding scalable codestreams allow for media content to be accessed using a number of different devices without separate codestreams having to be maintained or acquired for each type of device. An exemplary architecture allows a system to adaptively access scalable media codestreams both to promote efficient use of resources and to exploit scalable media codestreams to support a number of different applications. In such an example minimum coding units from a codestream such as macroblocks e.g. to provide access to the content at a selected level can be collected in packettes by a peer system or peer layer. Such packettes may be transmitted within conventional transport packets. Thus the exemplary architecture allows for adaptive access to the scalable codestream that is transparent to both the application and transport layers on the systems exchanging the codestream. Such an architecture supports applications including allowing multiple devices to each receive content at a desired access level without exchanging the full codestream content shifting between devices to facilitate device roaming and access level shifting to accommodate changes in available storage or other capabilities.

Various sections 2 through 7 appear below. Briefly Section 2 introduces the architecture of an exemplary web based editing system. Pre processing operations applied at a client are presented in Section 3 followed by those able to be performed on a community server in Section 4. In Section 5 a demonstration example is presented of various techniques to accomplish authoring on the web as well as authoring templates. Section 6 presents various exemplary technologies and Section 7 pertains to an exemplary computing environment suitable for use in implementing various exemplary components and in forming an exemplary system.

The library desktop layer includes a personal media library for media such as video media coded using scalable video coding and a metadata library which can store metadata associated with media content such as metadata from media content filters. The library web layer includes a community media library for media such as video media optionally amenable to scalable video coding and a community metadata library . The control module or interface allows for communication or transfer of information between one or more libraries for example between desktop client libraries and community server libraries.

A user or users may use a module e.g. module associated with a desktop client to import media data into a desktop client where the media data includes video data encoded by a scalable video codec. A content analysis module e.g. module that includes analysis algorithms may then be applied to the media data. A module may construct a personal media library e.g. library and a metadata library e.g. library on the desktop client or access one or more existing desktop client libraries to store the media data.

A sharing control e.g. control associated with the desktop client can then allow a use or users to share all or part of the metadata as well as all or part of the media data in a predetermined quality e.g. low quality in terms of low resolution low frame rate and or high compression ratio on the server. For example the control may upload such information to a community web layer e.g. including one or more servers . A sharing module may allow a user or users to control sharing permissions both on the desktop client and the web e.g. community web through a uniform administration interface.

In the example of a community web server maintains the community media library and metadata library . Typically such a metadata library covers more media data and also may link to one or more media database in individual users computers for example under appropriate permission controls.

In the system of on the server side one or more web based applications provide capabilities for web browsing searching and authoring e.g. the modules . In one implementation authored results may be played previewed on the web with low resolution and or low frame rate while higher quality media e.g. depending on a user s sharing control may be created if the user can get data streaming permission from the data owner s . Created content which may encompass various types of data e.g. not necessary limited to real media data could be a small size description file may also be shared on one or more community servers.

Various media data pre processing techniques can occur on a client prior to authoring and sharing such data on a community server. In a particular example scalable coding content analysis and metadata sharing provide for pre processing personal media data before authoring and sharing on the web.

SVC is one of the bases of the web based media sharing and authoring system . A suitable scalable video coding mechanism provides for efficient scalable and robust streaming video system for example over IP wireless networks etc. including the Internet.

An exemplary SVC mechanism applies multiple loop prediction and drifting reduction techniques at a macroblock level which allows the mechanism to outperform MPEG 4 FGS up to 3.0 dB. The exemplary mechanism provides for network bandwidth and device adaptation via embedded enhancement bitstreams and the universal scalabilities. Such an exemplary mechanism with a bandwidth estimation method can rapidly and stably catch bandwidth variations. Further an exemplary SVC mechanism provides a layered bitstream structure with a more important base layer and less important enhancement layers which allows for a highly protected base layer bitstream through error resilience and unequal error protection techniques that can be implemented with little overhead. An exemplary SVC mechanism allows for presentation of video to a user or users with a smoother playback experience and better visual quality on the Internet.

An exemplary analysis module can be a base component of the system . The analysis module provides for analysis of media content such as video image and music content. As shown in the analysis module operates on media using one or more filters or algorithms to produce a result . An extensible and open media content analysis module allows for adoption of future content algorithms. Content analysis tools can provide for an ability to obtain more compelling authoring results with less effort.

Media content analysis algorithms are often regarded as content filters. The exemplary content processing of shows a video filters block an image filters block and a music or audio filters block . Various examples are also shown as being available to the blocks .

With respect to such filters or algorithms a shot detection filter may be used as a video filter for shot detection a histogram extraction filter may be used as an image filter and applied for generation of a color histogram etc. A content filter may be an online filter or an offline filter. Online filters require parsing the entire video or audio stream or photo files to extract the corresponding basic metadata from the stream. While offline filters extract higher level metadata directly from these basic metadata without parsing the original media data. Examples of online filters include shot detection timestamp extraction and histogram extraction filters. Offline filters include scene detection quality assessment filters.

As already mentioned the analysis module can apply one or more filters algorithms to media to produce a result e.g. information which may be metadata. The analysis module may produce the result in a particular format. For example an exemplary analysis module component optionally uses a mark up language such as an extensible mark up language e.g. XML etc. to store all extracted or generated metadata. In this example if new metadata needs be extracted or generated an exemplary component may be used to write a new filter for example based on a filter template e.g. a base C class etc. and then plug it into the analysis module . An exemplary analysis module may allow advanced users to inherit a predefined online or offline base class and then implement the real metadata extraction functions.

With respect to video filters a shot detection filter may include several feature extraction filters such as key frame selection filter quantized color histogram filter ordinal measure based signature filter correlegram filter face detection filter attention detection filter camera object motion filter intention detector semantic classification annotation filter and text keywords description which may be added by the content creators or viewers.

With respect to intent filters often a user may have to try multiple search keywords related to a searching target and or multiple search iterations to get a reasonably relevant result especially when searching for multimedia content such as images. An exemplary scheme may use an intention mining module which collects formation from a user s reactions to search results and or from other data regarding the user which can be mined from a computer to refine a search. For example an intention mining module may refine searches via execution of instructions that examine how a user interacts with search terms. In this example results may be presented and a second revised search performed based on user interaction with the results. In general intention based searching aims to perform or refine a search based on mining user s interests and behaviors.

Another approach uses a model that can segment home videos into temporal scenes shots and sub shots. By deriving visual features from the sub shots the model can automatically categorize the intention of the person filming. Thus in such a manner home videos can be indexed by whether the person was trying to shoot beautiful scenery a close up an action shot etc.

With respect to image filters e.g. photos filters etc. various video filters can often be used with exception of video specific filters like shot detection key frame extraction and motion detection filters. With respect to music or audio filters filters such as onset beat tempo detection and repetitive pattern detection filters may be supported.

As described herein content filters e.g. and data including metadata extracted by these filters can be applied by various content based automatic editing methods. In addition such data can also facilitate a user s ability to find appropriate raw media segments when doing authoring see Section 4 .

An exemplary system component allows for extraction of metadata on a desktop client to be uploaded to a server e.g. a community server and shared to other users e.g. users in the community . Such an arrangement allows for searching on the web based at least in part on such metadata. Such metadata are optionally linked to the original media data on an individual s PC through a P2P network as well as the quality constrained version of the media data that may be shared on a community server.

In an exemplary system users are not only able to control which part of the video or photo collection are shared to which user or which group of users but also able to control the quality compression ratio resolution and frame rate that a particular user or user group may obtained from the server or P2P network.

The resulting information may be provided to a desktop layer for storage in one or more libraries or for association with such a layer. A control module includes various modules such as but not limited to a permissions module for setting user and or group permissions e.g. access use types of use modifications etc. and a quality module that controls quality parameters optionally based in part on bandwidth user capabilities client machine capabilities permissions etc. In this example the control module operates as an interface between the library desktop layer and the library web layer e.g. a community server layer and optionally one or more other layers users or groups . Service features associated with a server such as a community server are discussed below.

As already mentioned an exemplary system may operate in conjunction with one or more servers. Such a server may be a community server that serves one or more communities e.g. data sharing communities etc. . Functionalities provided on a community web server can include metadata and part of raw media data storing indexing and searching and providing a user interface UI for community users to accomplish authoring and sharing on a web e.g. the Web the Internet .

On the server side e.g. media sharing community side metadata can be stored in a well structured database which enables fast searching and browsing by for example a browsing module e.g. the module of that can implement one or more of the following techniques 

By intention categories e.g. such as beautiful scenery dynamic event static capturing and close up view 

By perceived quality measures e.g. such as visual quality motion quality compression ratio frame rate and resolution 

By similar or related media data video clips photos of the focused or selected media data can also be provided when doing searching and browsing. When doing browsing an interface typically provided to the user to do rating and commenting.

An exemplary Web authoring UI is designed as a form like a wizard which can allow for execution of various steps that a user can easily follow. The exemplary system of includes an authoring module that may provide such a UI and associated features such as templates etc.

In an exemplary method a first step includes selecting an authoring template. The template candidates may be designed by common users or commercial organizations. A server may provide a set of predefined templates while the users may also design modify or upload their own templates. These templates significantly simplify the process of media authoring on the web.

With respect to authoring templates template based multimedia authoring may provide for analysis of media content analysis and allow for selective application of content aware two layer authoring templates e.g. content description templates and content representation templates to extract media content. Such a two layer authoring template approach can allow for separation of video authoring operations from video representation. For example once multimedia content such as video has been authored i.e. generated the authored content may be simply and flexibly represented in one or more other forms e.g. according to a user preference . An open and extensible multimedia authoring and sharing framework may support features such as dynamic updating of core components such as content analysis algorithms editing methods and the two layer authoring templates. Such aspects can significantly reduce user efforts in video editing while preserving flexibility and personalization.

In this exemplary method a second step includes finding appropriate content to feed into the slots of the selected template. Users may use the media data on their local machine and may also use search and browse functionality on a web server e.g. the browsing and searching module to find shared media data on the server and then drag them into a particular slot on a UI. For the shared media data the users may only see a thumbnail with metadata and possibly a low quality version whereby the viewing option may be implemented as to not affect the authoring process and result.

A third step of this exemplary method includes playing or previewing media see e.g. the block of . Just before this step an editing engine e.g. embedded on a web server may be used to automatically compose the editing result for a user according to the data that the user provides and the corresponding template the user select. After composing a timeline which is typically a very rapid process e.g. less than about 5 seconds a timeline player e.g. block plays the authored content e.g. a content composition file . In this procedure the server may request a low quality version of the media data from the server or through an individual user s computer through P2P network e.g. in either instance using scalable video streaming .

Accordingly users may want to export or save the authored content into local machine or disc etc. Thus a rendering engine may request a higher quality version of the media data and compose a higher quality final result for the user. Users may also skip generation of the real video and decide to only save the description file and create the real content at a later time. The exported video or description file may also be shared on a server within or outside one or more communities. In addition a description file may be output in a variety of other forms such as a website blog streaming video file DVD disc and so on.

An example of an exemplary web based media authoring framework follows. Of course other arrangements and demonstrations are possible using various exemplary components described herein.

The exemplary UI includes various task tool bars . A file organization feature provides for navigation of files e.g. media objects etc. . Once a file or data is selected a display region displays the media content. Properties associated with the content in region are displayed in a property display region and optionally in other regions such as a size resolution quality region and a timer region . Operational status may be displayed in an appropriate region such as the region .

To demonstrate this particular sub system or component importation occurs for a one hour home video clip from a typical digital video camera see e.g. tool bar Import . The exemplary system can do online content analysis when doing importing and apply offline filters thereafter see e.g. the analysis module of . Of course a combination of importation and filtering is possible and may be implemented depending on circumstances if desired or appropriate. In this example metadata is stored on a local library see e.g. the library desktop layer of which is the basis of browsing and searching functionalities on local machine e.g. desktop client . In addition a text description and or other annotation can be added to the media content.

A user can then make a decision as to sharing using an exemplary sharing control see e.g. the control of . For example the user may decide to share three clips around 3 minutes each in low resolution and low frame rate on a community server e.g. 80 60 frame size 15 fps with the metadata of the entire video. Next a user may click a button Uploading see e.g. tool bar whereby the metadata and the shared clips are uploaded into a community server see e.g. the community library layer of .

The searching and browsing UI may run independently and also may run within an authoring process e.g. as part of an authoring module . Consider searching one of the aforementioned shared clips by typing in a keyword specified to the clip before uploading i.e. Daughter Birthday see e.g. keyword field . In response the UI may display a thumbnail of the clip along with various clip information see e.g. the region .

Such an exemplary searching facility may also use vaguer words to search desired content for example a user may choose outdoor beautiful scenery dominant color blue see e.g. fields . Upon selection of a particular file e.g. thumbnail the UI may optionally display additional details or a details link may be selected to provide additional details see e.g. Detail of region .

To demonstrate how to author a video on the web using an exemplary system consider which shows an exemplary rendered authoring template . The template includes a hierarchy directory field a slot field along with time distinctions set adjacent an audio music field . One or more features of the UI may be included as well e.g. search fields display regions for content etc. .

According to an exemplary method a check occurs to see if one or more suitable templates exist in a library. Next in this example a template CDT is chosen called Wild Christmas Party see field . Rendering may then occur on the UI which can be a webpage.

Next a user may right click or initiate other action on a lattice representing a tail chapter and on a popup window and then change duration of the tail chapter from 1 minute into 2 minutes and the editing style from Default into Slow Motion . The modified template can be saved or saved as a separate one in the template library.

A user or users may browse search and drag related source video clips and photo collections from a library view area into one or more slots. For example photos of Christmas parties over the world from other community users are put into the leader slot and clips about preparation of Christmas Eve are dragged into chapter one. A user or users may also drag certain music pieces from music library into the music track of the timeline for example to replace default music specified by the original template.

An exporting or saving step may be used for exporting or saving an edited result. For example consider export of the aforementioned description file into an actual video file in MPEG2 format. A user may select another form such as website type and then export the result as a website. In general such a process does not create video but rather when a certain thumbnail on the webpage is clicked the template player will locate the corresponding position in the description file instantly compose the timeline and then play the virtual video.

As described herein an exemplary system enables authoring and sharing personal media on the web. In various examples an exemplary system includes the following exemplary components scalable video coding media content analysis and template based media authoring. Such an exemplary media authoring component for authoring media on the web provides users a novel personal media sharing and authoring experience.

While various user interfaces are shown others are possible. Further an exemplary system may embed more intelligent media content analysis techniques as well as provide more compelling authoring templates may further improve the efficiency of handling media data.

Various modules may be integrated with other web application features such as those found in commercially available web applications. With respect to commercially available web applications such applications include the MSN network of Internet services Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. GOOGLE search engine application Google Inc. Mountain View Calif. YAHOO search engine Yahoo Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. . Exemplary techniques disclosed herein may be implemented in conjunction with such applications to extend or replace features and or services. For example a home page displayed at www.msn.com offers access to a variety of features e.g. searches web communities email etc. . A category or sub category may be added to this page which would make available e.g. launch etc. an exemplary authoring template an exemplary browsing or searching module etc. A category or sub category may make available a searching module that provides results e.g. media related metadata in a mark up language e.g. XML etc. .

Various exemplary modules may be optionally accessed through use of an Internet linked toolbar e.g. a web application toolbar such as a toolbar associated with the MSN network of Internet services .

In general various exemplary methods may be implemented through use of hardware. For example processor executable instructions in the form of software may be stored on one or more computer readable media and implemented using a processor. An exemplary method may rely on hardware alone or a combination of hardware and software and or firmware. Various exemplary components rely on algorithms to implement control logic e.g. logical functions that operate alone in conjunction with input information such as data or user inputs etc. . An exemplary computing device see below optionally includes control logic for performing an exemplary method or a part thereof.

In a very basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. System memory typically includes an operating system one or more program modules and may include program data . The operating system include a component based framework that supports components including properties and events objects inheritance polymorphism reflection and provides an object oriented component based application programming interface API such as that of the .NET Framework manufactured by Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. The operating system also includes an exemplary host framework such as but not limited to the exemplary media framework. This very basic configuration is demarcated by a dashed line . Again a terminal may have fewer components but will interact with a computing device that may have such a basic configuration.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. These devices are well know in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network e.g. consider the aforementioned web or Internet networks that may include one or more communities . Communication connections are one example of communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

