---

title: Provision of contact center services to players of games
abstract: A mechanism is provided in a networked multiplayer game for use by playable characters. When operated by a player's character, this mechanism causes the game to send a request for contact to an external contact center. The contact request is queued and allocated to an agent, optionally with the assistance of information provided by the game. When a contact center agent answers the contact request, a communications channel is opened from the agent directly into the game where the game system directs the communication to the local environment of the player's character enabling the player to communicate with the agent of a contact center without leaving the game environment. The agent or contact center may additionally have a representation in the game so that the player can interact with the agent or contact center. The agent representation may be a character in the game controlled by an agent who is logged into the game, or by the contact center manipulating a game client or API, or by the game engine itself. A representation of the contact center may be a telephone graphic, portal, door, sign, lever, button or any other manipulable game object, and optionally a multimedia representation of the contact queuing system. Payments can be made to or from the player using in-game currency which is credited or debited to an account held by the contact center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08298086&OS=08298086&RS=08298086
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08298086
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061208
---
This invention relates to the provision of contact center services to the players of networked games and to the facilitation of financial transactions by such players when dealing with contact centers.

Networked multiplayer games are known by a variety of different acronyms from the earliest MUDs multi user domains or dungeons to the current variety of MMOGs massively multiplayer online games the most popular genres of which include MMORPG massively multiplayer online role playing game MMORTS massively multiplayer online real time strategy and MMOFPS massively multiplayer online first person shooter .

These games which are all networked multiplayer games may be referred to herein for convenience as MMOGs without any intended or implied limitation as to the number of players or the objectives characteristics or nature of any such game other than the fact that it is played over a network and involves multiple players.

A typical MMOG will employ the Internet as its network and will support several hundred or several thousand players. These players will frequently interact with one another and with the game environment through the medium of characters also called avatars who live within the game environment. Far from being a small niche market the total number of current subscriptions to MMOGs as of July 2006 was thought to be approximately 15 million. Certain games have internal economies which generate substantial activity and because the items and currency generated in game can be sold for hard cash the more popular games have sufficient economic activity to enable dedicated players to earn a living solely through the economic activity they generate in game.

With the increasing value of virtual economies issues arise with regard to taxation legal rights and the interaction between the virtual and real economies. It is understandably difficult for companies and interested individuals to participate in the economic activity occurring within virtual economies although certain companies have begun to sponsor advertisements in social MMOGs such as Second Life and indeed the Reuters news agency has a full time reporter in the Second Life game world.

As this trend increases companies which have traditionally been confined to the real world will face increasing challenges in trying to successfully integrate virtual world activity with their day to day operations. The present invention is directed to providing methods and systems to assist in this process.

The invention provides in a first aspect a method of operating a networked multiplayer game. This method includes the steps of 

According to this method a game operator may provide enhanced experiences and opportunities to players of its games. By firstly enabling a request for contact with a contact center to be made within the context of a game i.e. by employing an in game mechanism players are encouraged to stay within the game rather than being directed to visit an external website or to make a separate call or send an email to a contact center. Secondly by enabling the agent to communicate with the player within the context of the game environment at least from the player s point of view the gaming experience is greatly enhanced and the player can remain in character throughout the interaction. In effect the player perceives that the agent is visiting the game to respond to the player s request. A skilled agent may tailor the conversation to avoid this illusion being broken.

Preferably there is also provided in the game environment a visual representation of an agent character and the communications channel is directed to the agent character.

In this way the agent is physically embodied within the game in the sense that the player s character can now converse and interact with another character that of the agent.

Preferably the method also includes the step of animating the agent character in response to input from the agent.

Thus the agent character can be enhanced to increase the realism by causing the character to apparently speak when a speech signal is detected from the agent. This can be automatically performed by equipment running the game or it can be performed by equipment at the contact center which augments the agent s communications with instructions for animating the agent character.

The agent may control the character through a simple interface allowing the agent to enter simple commands to control the character or the agent may be provided with a game client or game interface equivalent to that provided to players of the game whereby the agent can fully control the agent character in the same way as the players control their own characters. Any such agent interface can of course be enhanced or simplified as appropriate to the situation.

The game engine can be provided with functionality to automate such agent characters. it is common within games to have non player characters or NPCs which are controlled by the game and which can simulate the characteristics and actions of player controlled characters. Such techniques can be used to augment the agent character with automated actions.

Another method of automation is where the agent s character is controlled automated by the contact center server by manipulating a game client interface or using other game control APIs application programming interfaces as may be available in the game. This mode is similar to when the agent controls the game character the difference is that the agent s character is automated by the contact center. This may be used in conjunction with a live agent on the call and for part of the time it may be completely automated with no live agent participating such as before the agent is allocated to the call.

A contact center providing a service or providing goods which are very much consistent with the game e.g. a tailoring service for the clothes or a service for altering the appearance of characters e.g. a tattooing service might benefit from employing well trained agents having a full game client available to them. Other contact centers providing more limited services e.g. in game banking might not need such functionality and might either automate their bank tellers and officials or might provide a light version of the client so that agents do not need the same degree of skill with the game mechanics to service contact requests.

Optionally the method also includes the step of providing to the contact center information regarding the player making the request and or regarding the player s character.

It will be appreciated that contact centers generally require information about the customer to properly service a call. In addition to the information which is strictly required to service a call contact centers will often prompt the customer for additional information which helps to better service the contact. Often the information which might be most useful for an agent can be difficult to collect such as a customer s spending habits or the likelihood of a contact between a given customer and a contact center actually giving rise to a sale or transaction. Where a player has a history of interacting with businesses within a game however the game may log such interactions and can provide such information subject to the customer s permission if required or the terms of service of the game to a contact center to enhance the information available. The information can relate to the player of the game and can include account information and history time spent in game history with other contact centers accessed in game etc. or can relate to the character of the player such as the character s bank balance details of the character s possessions appearance and characteristics. Such additional information can greatly enhance the interaction between the agent and the player.

The method can also include the step subsequent to the operation of the mechanism by the players s character of placing the character in a simulation of a waiting environment.

This environment could be a simulation of a queue for example or of a waiting room or of any other environment chosen to represent a waiting environment. To give a one example if characters in the game are aircraft pilots or indeed sentient aircraft then the mechanism to request contact might be a radio frequency accessed to request a landing slot and the waiting environment might be an aircraft holding pattern for a landing strip or airport.

Preferably the method further includes receiving from the contact center an indication of a wait time parameter at the contact center and modifying said simulation of said waiting environment on the basis of said indication.

Thus the length of the queue in which the contact sits or the current average waiting time for contacts in that queue or in the contact center generally or any other wait time measurement might be notified to the game and the game might modify the population of a waiting room length of a queue or number of holding aircraft based on this metric.

The invention further provides in this aspect a computer program product comprising instructions which when executed in a networked multiplayer game system are effective to 

It will be appreciated that such a computer program product can be distributed across different items of processing equipment associated with a game and need not be exclusively executed on a single game server. Typically the program instructions will be distributed at least between the game engine and the communications server. The computer program product can be a physical carrier of a program on one or more media carriers such as hard drives or optical or magnetic disks or it can be embodied as an electrical signal or optical signal encoding the program instructions.

It should be noted that the agent may be unable to and is not required to differentiate between an MMOG originating contact and a real world contact. One of the advantages provided by the invention is that it allows a contact center provider to offer existing contact center customers access to a new market without the need to retrain their agents. Agents may thus remain oblivious to the fact that a contact originated in a MMOG. However there are advantages in some scenarios for having agents who are fully aware of the fact that a contact is a player of a networked online game and this aspect of the invention which has been alluded to previously where the agent is aware of and may even participate in the game will be described next in more detail.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of operating a contact center including the steps of 

In this aspect of the invention the contact center provides an enhanced experience for the agent servicing requests received from players immersed in a game. While the agent need not be similarly immersed it is extremely useful for such an agent to see a representation of the player s character so that the agent can provide a more realistic experience to the player who is immersed in the game. Thus an agent can note the character s appearance demeanor posture actions and gestures facial expressions surroundings and so on and can employ such information usefully when interacting.

The method may also include the step of providing the agent with an interface enabling interaction with the representation of the environment of the game.

Preferably the interface is a client program providing the agent with control of an agent character in the environment.

Thus the agent can be provided with a full game client or a game client modified or enhanced for the agent whereby the agent also controls a character within the game during the interaction between the agent and the player.

Further preferably the communications channel is directed to the agent character within the game environment.

In preferred embodiments the method also includes the steps of providing to the agent a mechanism for interacting with a payment system of the game and maintaining an account of payments involving the agent made using the payment system of the game whereby financial transactions may be carried out between the player and the agent by employing the payment system of the game with such transactions recorded in the account.

The term payment as used herein is intended to denote transfers of currency having value in the real world currency having value only within a game transfers of bearer items such as cheques and credit notes written by a character in a game and transfers of any other item of value such as artefacts created in game or forming part of a game e.g. certain weapons and items of equipment within certain games will have defined or agreed values and can thus be used to effect barter type payments .

This additional feature enables a contact center to capture some of the considerable wealth generated in game. While transactions can occur in either direction e.g. a contact center might pay a player for completing a survey the primary utility of this feature is that it provides a contact center agent with a way of obtaining payment in an alternative to the usual credit card type of transaction. Game systems will typically have payment mechanisms whereby one character can give money or other valuables to another character and such mechanisms can be employed to allow the transfer of wealth or valuables between the player s character and the agent s character or a mechanism associated with the agent or the contact center e.g. a deposit box . When such a transaction is completed an account will be updated and the contact center can thus give and receive valuable consideration for transactions agreed in game.

In some circumstances as described above the agent may not be aware of the contact s origins within an MMOG. Such agents may be provided with a payments interface which can map the in game currency and other MMOG artefacts to real world values so that the transaction can be presented to the player in the terms of the game and can be presented to the agent in real world terms. In sufficiently sophisticated embodiments each will be oblivious of the other person s view of the transaction and automated foreign exchanges2 can be used to convert sums between real currency and game currency. Obviously the applicability of such techniques would be dependent on the type of product service being offered.

There is further provided a computer program product comprising instructions which when executed in a contact center system are effective to cause the system to 

In another aspect the invention provides a method of enabling a transaction between a player of a networked multiplayer game and an agent of a contact center external to the game comprising the steps of 

Thus the contact center may be prepared either to receive or pay in game credit or may prefer to receive or pay real currency held outside the game and converted at a market rate to in game currency.

Preferably said payment mechanism further comprises automatically converting a payment amount between a currency valid within the game and a currency valid in the real world.

Automatic foreign exchanges may be employed for the conversion of game money. This is to enable the agent if the contact center administrator so chooses and if the product service of relevance lends itself to such to be unaware that he she is dealing with a contact from an MMOG.

There is further provided a payment system for enabling a transaction between a player of a networked multiplayer game and an agent of a contact center external to the game comprising 

There is also provided in this aspect a computer program product comprising instructions which when executed in a networked multiplayer game system enable a transaction between a player of the networked multiplayer game and an agent of a contact center external to the game by causing the game system to 

In there is indicated generally at a network architecture comprising a massive multiplayer online game MMOC environment running on the Internet and a contact center environment also connected to the Internet.

Within the MMOG environment individual players connect via the Internet to a game server following an authentication process carried out by an associated login server the functions of login server may of course also be carried out by game server . The game server which is shown as a single server but will more often be implemented as a network of servers executes a number of processes in order to host a game for the players such processes typically including a game engine a representation of the simulated world or game environment representations and data relating to player characters or avatars which inhabit the world representation and interact with it and with each other according to the rules of the game engine and the actions of players and communication functions shown generically at such functions often including voice video and instant messaging facilities whereby player characters may interact with one another or players themselves may interact with one another in out of game communication channels which do not involve their characters.

The login server is provided with player account information including the player s subscription and real world contact and billing details. In addition if the game in question has an economy the player s character s may also have separate accounts in the game currency and in the illustrated embodiment this character account information is stored with the character avatar data on game server . It will be appreciated that the player s account and the character s account need not be separate from one another and a unified account could be employed.

The contact center environment is separate from the game and comprises a contact center server which is connected to the Internet and to which a plurality of trained human contact center agents are connected. Agents may make and receive voice calls to external parties or customers. Such calls may be carried over the public switched telephone network PSTN not shown or may be carried over the Internet with which the contact center server connects via an Internet telephony gateway . The contact center may additionally be enabled with technology such as the session initiation protocol SIP allowing communications to be made in a range of media types. In addition to voice calls agents may communicate with customers using video or using data media such as instant messaging or email.

Incoming communications known as contacts are managed by the contact center server in order to route contacts to agents in the most efficient manner for the contact center s purposes. The management of contacts is controlled by workflows which determine the routing of contacts through automated treatments such as an interactive voice response IVR application or a music on hold server . The IVR application provides information useful for classifying a contact in order to best route it to an available and competent agent. Other information gleaned from the source of the contact the number called etc. can also be used in this way.

Each contact can therefore be allocated to one or more skillsets which are serviced by the agents according to skillset abilities noted for each agent in a set of agent resource records . At busy times the contacts are placed in queues according to skillset and the contact center server also therefore manages the set of queues . In this way all incoming calls are classified and directed to agents according to the treatment specified in the workflows. The system as described thus far is conventional and known in the art.

Referring additionally to a flowchart is shown detailing a sequence of steps carried out by a player left hand column of flowchart the game server and login server center column of flowchart and the contact center right hand side of flowchart .

The process begins when a player logs into the game step and following a successful login on the login account server step the game engine sends the player s avatar data and the world simulation data for the avatar s environment to a game client resident on the player s machine step .

The client program running on the player s machine renders the game world and the avatar within the game world to the player step and the player can control this avatar in order to play the game as normal.

Within the game world provided according to the present invention a mechanism has been provided for access to the services of contact center . There may be any number of reasons why a player might want to access services which might be provided by a contact center and the mechanism used to access the contact center can be any mechanism which a player avatar could normally access within the game. Thus it could be a doorway or an arch through which the avatar moves or a lever or a button or a textual menu or clickable command available through the client program. The mechanism might be labelled with real world information relating to the contact center or the mechanism can appear to be entirely within the terms of reference of the game world i.e. without any real world references.

Assuming that there is a portal or doorway provided in this particular game the player avatar accesses this portal to initiate communication with the contact center step . The game engine recognises this action as a command to send a contact request to a contact center associated with that portal mechanism step . A communications link is created or accessed over the Internet between the game and the contact center i.e. the game server is programmed to formulate requests to a network address associated with the contact center. The request will typically include an identifier of the player but may include additional details of the request such as details entered by the player when accessing the mechanism in step . Thus a player might write a letter or note or record a voice message when accessing the mechanism and any such details would be passed along with the request to the contact center in step .

In step the contact center upon receiving a request for contact initiation may request additional information to assist in queuing and directing the contact. Such additional information might already be available to the game server from for example the login account server . Other sources of data can also be used such as the player history how often the player has requested similar services details of the player s in game bank balance details of previous services purchased or requested by the player etc. step . When this information is returned to the contact center a contact is placed in a queue step .

The contact center then returns details of the successful queuing of the contact and returns on hold content to the game step . This on hold content can be interactive voice response treatments music on hold or automated game content such as an automated character who appears to the player and asks questions analogous to those which would typically have been provided in an interactive voice response environment in a telephone call. The automated game content is supplied by a module within the contact center environment .

When these details are returned to the game in step the game engine optionally simulates a queue and passes on the on hold content in step . Thus using the example of a series of question which are to be asked by the contact center the game engine may in fact generate an automated character which is made to speak those question to the player s avatar. In step the player receives any queue content or any on hold content and optionally an interactive session may follow in which the player s interaction with this content is processed by the game and or the contact center to improve the queuing details or to add to the player s data stored by the game and or the contact center. A representation of the queue might be generated for the player so that the player sees a line of other characters ahead of his own character which reduces as the player s contact approaches the top of the queue maintained by the contact center.

Another example is a representation of a waiting room as at a doctor s office. This environment allows for non sequential out of sequence processing of contacts such as when a nurse calls out the name of the next patient to be seen which is not always the person waiting the longest .

As with traditional contacts in contact centers the contact sooner or later reaches the top of a queue for which an agent is available step . The agent workstation is provided with a client program which performs a game login and launches the game client step . If the agent deals exclusively with contacts from one particular game then the agent can be logged in permanently. Alternatively the agent may be servicing contacts from other channels as well as from the game in which case it is more likely that the agent s game client will log in to the game only when responding to such contacts.

In step the game engine following the agent s login sends avatar and world data to the agent s client program step . The agent avatar then enters the contact center portal where the player s avatar is situated step . In steps and the agent avatar communicates with the player avatar and vice versa. The player is thus provided in game with an experience of dealing with an agent which is to all intents and purposes part of the game and does not require him or her to break character . From the point of view of the contact center skilled agents can provide an enhanced experience to their customers which is not provided when a player has to log out of the game or take his or her attention away from the game in order to dial a contact center number or access a website.

In step of the agent workstation performs a game login without a game client being presented to the agent. The game engine acknowledges this login in step and then the game itself generates an automated avatar in step which is associated with that agent login. In step the automated avatar generated by the game enters the contact center portal i.e. it appears there to the player and from this point on the player avatar can communicate with this automated avatar i.e. the player will see and can speak to the automated avatar in the contact center portal.

Form the agent s point of view the agent communicates with the game engine in step such that any communications from the agent or to the agent using the normal communications equipment employed by that agent are channelled to the game engine. The game engine intercepts such communications and uses them step to automate the avatar with the agent s communication. Such automation can be as simple or as sophisticated as the game engine permits. Thus the voice of the agent can be augmented by physical gestures emotions and so on. Alternatively a video image of the agent can be converted to or merged with the avatar s appearance and actions.

In step it can be seen that the player avatar communicates with the automated avatar and thus communication proceeds between the player and the agent with the game engine acting as an intermediary controlling the agent s avatar.

It will be appreciated that the process of is essentially a conventional transaction piggybacked onto a contact center session carried out through the medium of a game according to the invention. However describes a further integration between the contact center and the game.

In the process of steps and are as described above with the player agreeing to pay for a product or service. However rather than employing real world payment mechanisms the player in this case uses an in game payment mechanism to pay for a product or service which may be a real world product or service with game currency step . The game verifies that the player is in a position to make such a payment according to the game rules and performs a financial transaction deducting the credit from the player s account optionally taking a commission from the transaction and crediting a contact center account held on the game server or held in the real world.

For games where there is an open exchange mechanism converting between in game currency and real world currency such as for the MMOG called Second Life where the in game currency of Linden dollars are freely exchangeable on various websites to U.S. dollars the contact center may choose to be paid in real world currency rather than in in game currency. However it may also suit the contact center to maintain an in game account balance.

Once this transaction has been completed according to the game server s records the agent is notified by the payment authorisation step and the transaction then completes with the agreement of both player and agent step .

The invention is not limited to the embodiment s described herein but can be amended or modified without departing from the scope of the present invention.

