---

title: Method and system for identifying and correcting location discrepancies for reception equipment in a content delivery network
abstract: A method and system is provided to analyse receiver indicia of location for a set of at least one receivers to determine whether a receiver has an erroneous indicator of location. The embodiment may take further steps to confirm whether or not inappropriate usage has occurred. The method and system includes identifying a first indicia of location for a set of one or more receivers, identifying a second indicia of location for one or more receivers from the set, and determining if the first and second indicia of location are mutually inconsistent. Indicia of location include indicators of receiver location, inventory state, communication path and definition on systems. The method and system may optionally include action to report or correct the location error.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08671457&OS=08671457&RS=08671457
owner: Maxxian Technology Inc.
number: 08671457
owner_city: Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20060605
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 964 621 filed Oct. 15 2004 and this application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 687 138 and 60 790 711 filed Jun. 3 2005 and Apr. 10 2006 respectively. The complete disclosures of all of these references are herein incorporated by reference.

This invention relates generally to identification of discrepancies in location of a receiver or receivers in a content delivery network and more particularly to the detection and prevention of discrepancies in location for subscriber receiving devices for content and services distributed by way of wired or wireless networks.

In a typical distribution system of signals in a content delivery network such as for cable or satellite television there are various components that reside on a single physical system or on separate systems linked by one or more communication networks. Such content delivery networks may include content providers which provide content delivered across the network such as audio video data applications or combinations thereof.

In a content delivery network the content is typically provided by content providers into the content delivery network as one or more signals. Such signals are typically encoded to prevent unauthorized access and use of the signal. Receivers such as digital television receiver units receive from the network and use such encoded signals for use by users. A receiver typically includes a decode function so that receivers may make use of the encoded signals it receives from the content delivery network. A content delivery network also typically includes a conditional access system connected to the network which controls the content that any particular receiver may access and use. The conditional access system typically operates in conjunction with the receivers to control the content that any one receiver may access and use. A receiver typically perform checks with the conditional access system to determine the particular content that it is permitted to receive and use and then decode only such authorized content.

The content delivery network will also typically contain other systems such as subscriber management systems for maintaining and billing customer subscriptions pay per view video on demand interactive television and other systems which may in turn have records or subsystems used for controlling access to services features or content which may be directly or indirectly related to the conditional access system.

Access to various services available on the network is typically controlled through authorizations entered into the subscriber management system. Individual subsystems may in turn have records relating to individual receiver service authorizations. Such records of authorization may in one form or another be duplicated on various systems and each system may independently exert control over access to the related service or signal.

Receivers may also be in a variety of inventory states for management purposes. Such states may include the receiver being on a valid subscriber account in inventory in test mode or other status known to those of skill in the art. Such inventory states may have service authorizations associated with them or may be characterized by a lack of authorizations. For example a receiver in a test state would be assumed to have service authorization to allow an operator to verify the functioning of a receiver and would assume that the receiver is in a location used for testing by the network operation. As another example a receiver in stolen lost defective or similar status in which it would not be expected to be connected to the network status would be assumed to be in a null set of locations.

A conditional access system or and other systems with service or signal authorization records may not necessarily provide facilities for a large number of content providers to enter authorizations or to manage billing and other customer oriented functions. Likewise conditional access systems known in the art may not provide interfaces or functions for the handling of large volumes of transactions except through a connection to a subscriber management system. Where such facilities may be provided within a conditional access system network operators may not be accustomed to using them as they may not provide convenient or easily usable interfaces and they may not include logging and other audit trail mechanisms.

Additional background details regarding content delivery networks conditional access systems and technologies deployed therein are described in the following United States patents which are hereby incorporated by reference 

Errors in receiver configuration may result in inventory management difficulties and inappropriate usage. A receiver in a test status may be considered innocuous. However if a receiver is in test status with authorization and not located at the network operator s warehouse or other approved test site then it may have been stolen and inappropriately used. Receivers may be inadvertently defined on multiple systems. At a minimum this could result in inventory budget or other accounting error related to the management of receiver expenses. In a more serious vein a receiver that was stolen from one system could be authorized on another system.

Services to a set of receivers may be advantageously priced because of a common factor usually related to location of the receivers. For example if a subscriber is paying for services on a first receiver services for additional receivers in the same home may be discounted or even eliminated. An operator may offer advantageous pricing to a group of receivers in locations such as an apartment building condominium or other development and the pricing is only for receivers used within that location. Usage of such a receiver in another location would be considered inappropriate by the operator.

Operational errors software or hardware problems or other sources of errors may cause discrepancies to occur between subscriber management systems conditional access systems and other systems such as video on demand servers. In such a cases it may be possible for a receiver to access a service or signal which the network operator does not intend to distribute for that receiver.

There is a need for a system and method for identifying and reconciling differences in indicia of location within various systems to control receiver service access and inventory.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a method and system are provided to analyse indicia of location for a set of one or more receiver to determine if any receiver in the set is in an inappropriate location. The embodiment may take further steps to confirm whether or not inappropriate usage has occurred. Additionally whether or not inappropriate usage or an inventory error has occurred the embodiment may take steps to prevent inappropriate usage from taking place and to correct errors in indicia of location and inventory.

In one embodiment a receiver s communication path is an indicia of location and is compared to an indicia of location based on a receiver s inventory state. If a receiver s inventory state is associated with one of a set of locations and the receiver s communication path is associated with a location not associated with the specified inventory state s set of locations then an error is deemed to have occurred in receiver indicia of location

In one embodiment the indicia of location is the set of communication path for a set of receivers intended to be at a specific location with the same communication path. The communication path for one receiver in the set is compared with the communication paths for the reset of the set of receivers. If there is more than one communication path is in the communication path for the set of receiver then an error is deemed to have occurred in receiver indicia of location.

In one embodiment the indicia of location for a set of receivers of being intended to be at a specific location with the same communication path and being identified as located on the same communication path is compared with signal response characteristics such as response time and signal strengths for the set of receivers. If the variance in one or more signal response characteristics is above a specified level between receivers in the set of receivers then an error is deemed to have occurred in receiver indicia of location.

In one embodiment the indicia of location for a receiver of having a specified communication path signal level or poll response time at a first time is compared to the communication path signal level or poll response at a second time. If a change or variance occurs above a specified level of the values between the two times then an error is deemed to have occurred in receiver indicia of location.

In one embodiment the indicia of location of a receiver being in a specified inventory state at a first time and where the specified inventory state is intended to be temporary in nature and in which a receiver should not be for longer than a specified time is compared to a second indicia of location of the receiver being in the specified receiver state at a second time and which is at least the specified time later than the first time. If the receiver has been in the specified state for longer than the specified time then an error is deemed to have occurred in receiver indicia of location.

In one embodiment a first indicia of location is the definition of a receiver on a first instance of system such as a conditional access system subscriber management system content delivery system or other system which retains information on a receiver is compared to a second indicia of location which is the definition of the same receiver on another instance of the same system type and where receivers should only be defined on a single instance of such systems. With each system covering different areas the coverage area of each system is considered an indicia of location covering a distinct area for each system. If the receiver is defined on both the first and the other instance of the system then an error in receiver location has been identified.

Optional steps may be taking for reporting and displaying the receiver location errors identified and for taking action to correct the receiver location errors.

The description which follows and the embodiments described herein are provided by way of illustration of an example or examples of particular embodiments of the principles of the present invention. These examples are provided for the purposes of explanation and not limitation of those principles and of the invention. In the description which follows like parts are marked throughout the specification and the drawings with the same respective reference numerals.

According to one embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method and system for detecting location discrepancies for a set of one or more receivers in a wireless or wired signal distribution environment. A method provided by the embodiment may be used to determine whether one or more receivers in the set of receivers may be in an inappropriate location by analyzing different indicia of location for one or more receivers in the set. Additionally because a receiver being used in a location different from an expected location for the receiver by the operator the embodiment may take steps to correct the error or to prevent usage of the receiver.

Referring to a content delivery network such as for digital cable or satellite television is described. The content delivery network will hereafter be referred to network . The following details of the embodiments are mainly focused upon delivery of signals associated with television but it will be appreciated that other content may be delivered in other embodiments.

Components of the network may reside on a single physical system or on separate systems linked by one or more communication networks. Multiple instances of each component may also be required. Network may include a plurality of content providers for the content being delivered therein such as external content providers and internal content sources which are acquired or stored by the network operator. The content may consist of audio video data applications or any combination thereof. Depending on conditional access control as described below the content is made available to receivers in network as determined by an operator of network or by request from a user of receiver . The content may be broadcast or transmitted on a point to point point to multipoint or other basis as is known in the art.

Examples of content streams include television signals with audio video closed captioning and interactive applications that may be embedded into a composite signal as is the case with a television signal supporting the Wink or WebTV interactive television specifications. Content streams may also be a series of separate digital transport streams for audio video interactive television and conditional access.

A given instance of content may be shared by one or more services. For example an English language service may be defined as containing a given video stream and an English language audio stream. A Spanish service may be defined using the same video stream and a Spanish language audio stream. In this manner only the bandwidth of one video stream is used on network while two separate channels may be provided on a program guide.

Content may be received in a format that is compatible with the network or may require processing before transmission within network . Examples of processing include compression and encoding for video and audio signals format conversion and encryption or the signals. Content may also be available from one or more content servers operated by the operator of network . Content from content providers may be transmitted in real time or slower or faster than real time for purposes of caching content for deferred viewing at receiver or other downstream device.

Content from content providers may flow into encoders which process the content prior to distribution to a multiplexer . Alternatively for content that is already encoded it may flow directly into multiplexer . Content from multiplexer may then be delivered through a network interface to communication network for delivery to a plurality of receivers . The function of multiplexer varies with the network and content type and format of the content. Examples of multiplexers that may be used include MPEG 2 multiplexers asynchronous transfer mode ATM packet switches gigabit Ethernet devices and other similar systems known in the art.

Network may provide multiple facilities for communication between receivers and other components of network . As examples on a cable television network bandwidth may be allocated separately for content transmission control signal transmission and return communication from a receiver with all communication occurring on the same cable. On a satellite television system the content and control signals are transmitted over the satellite while receiver may communicate back to components of network through a telephone connection.

Along with content from content providers various forms of data may be transmitted to aid the viewer in the use of a multi channel multi service system. This type of information which can include the electronic program guide and related tables for access frequency and other information for receiving and describing the signal are referred to as service information SI tables. SI tables may be produced and transmitted by SI generator and may also include various forms of control information from external sources to control access for content such as subscription services and pay per view movies and other forms of information the content of which may be used by receiver . Signal enhancements such as station logos data and other forms of content may be included with the content from the various sources may be added to or removed from signal associated with the content by injector filter that may be performed before or after the encoding process. As an example injector filter is shown in as performing signal enhancements after the encoding process of content from operator content server

Security authorization and configuration of receiver to use signals in network may be provided by a conditional access system CA . CA controls which content a particular receiver is authorized to access. Services and functions provided by CA include among other things permission management for control of authorizations of a per user or receiver basis content management for controlling access to content message encryption facility to secure the communication authorization and other messages for transmission. CA operates in conjunction with content encoder for protecting of the content during transmission from unauthorized access and a receiver conditional access system RCAS at receivers for communication with CA . RCAS may include local secure storage of permissions and other content access information. Content encoder may perform various transformations on all or part of the content signal to prevent unauthorized access including signal modification encryption and other methods as is known in the art.

Subscription control of CA may be managed by entering service authorization and cancellation commands on a subscriber management system SMS . SMS forwards subscription control requests to CA which may then generate the appropriate commands and operations to deliver subscription control commands in the form and manner required to be accepted by a receiver .

CA systems may also manage communication with a receiver . Communication may be divided into separate communication paths to a receiver and from a receiver also referred to as upstream and downstream communication paths .

With respect to communication network for a typical cable television system communication network may be a system of amplifiers transmitters re transmitters copper cable fiber optic systems switches and routers used for distribution of a signal in communication network as is known in the art. In a cable television network receivers are connected to communication network and may communicate back with an operator of communication network using Internet DAVIC Digital Audio Video Council Geneva Switzerland other command protocols supported by the communication network or a combination of such protocols.

Other examples of communication network include DTH direct to home satellite microwave multichannel multipoint distribution service MMDS local multipoint distribution system LMDS television distribution system DSL Digital Subscriber Loop and its various high speed variants such as VDSL as used for example by telephone companies for high speed data and video transmission ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode networks cellular telephone and other communication networks for transferring data as is known in the art.

Referring to some of the functional components of receiver that may be found in typical digital television applications on network are shown. Components of receiver may be implemented in hardware or software and individual or groups of functions may be provided by separate applications communicating through an operating system or other shared facility or may be part of a single application as is known in the art.

Receiver includes one or more network interfaces for communication to and from communication network . In an embodiment for a television receiver network interfaces may consist of one or more tuners to receive a signal from communication network and a modulator or a telephone modem for returning data to communication network . Receiver may further include demodulate demultiplex function to convert modulated signals received from network into digital data and extract the desired data from the signal stream. A decrypter function performs decryption functions on the signals and is typically controlled by RCAS for controlling unauthorized use and access. The decryption of decrypter function may be based on analog or digital means of preventing unauthorized access to the signal. Within receiver decoder transforms the signal s decrypted bits into a content format required by a user to receiver such as a television viewer. For example decoder may convert the bits from MPEG digital audio and video bit streams into analog television signals.

RCAS may typically be included in receiver which controls the content that may be accessed and used at receiver . Examples of control mechanisms include channel subscription authorizations received from CA and pay per view purchases made at receiver . In some embodiments RCAS can determine whether access is allowed through its own locally stored parameters or by making an authorization check with CA . RCAS may also provide additional functions for implementing or controlling the decryption process by decrypter such as controlling the reception and processing of data or providing decryption keys or other information required for controlling the decryption or access processes at receiver .

One or more processors may be used to implement the functions of receiver or to provide or control communication between the various functions of receiver . The functions and facilities of receiver may further be controlled by an operating system and one or more software modules that executes on the one or more processors .

Other functions that may be available on receiver can include an electronic program guide EPG to allow a user to list select and obtain other information on the content available an interactive television iTV subsystem to provide facilities for executing other applications such as games viewer response gathering and other functions. These iTV applications may operate in conjunction with television programs received at receiver or independently as separate services. System applications include system configuration audience measurement advertising management delivery and others functionality. Advertising management systems may include systems for presenting or substituting advertisements and presenting advertisements in a targeted manner based on viewing habits user demographics or other criteria. Advertising management system may also include the ability to capture usage data such as time and date of channel viewing. Applications such as EPG and the other applications may in turn be iTV applications that use the facilities of iTV subsystem . In the embodiment system applications may also include capabilities for exercising some control over what may be viewed through receiver such as parental control and copy protection. These applications may in turn require additional processing of an accessed signal by network components that may be implemented in one or more of the injector filters or content spooler CA SI Generator or component data or other signal information.

Multiple instances of each functional component may be available on a particular receiver . Thusly simultaneous processing of multiple signals is possible and the ability to handle different signal types is also provided. Examples include the ability to process multiple television signals at a time for picture in picture functions to record one program while watching another on a receiver equipped with a personal video recorder PVR feature and to receive analog and digital signals.

Functions and applications may be provided and managed in multiple ways on receiver . The applications may be part of the software provided with receiver and included with receiver when it is shipped to a user or updated software thereon after the user has put receiver in use. Additionally one or more separate binary applications may be transmitted separately to receiver through communication network . Further interpreted applications may be executed within an iTV environment. The iTV applications may be considered separate content provided in network or may be included with video or other content as optional enhancements. Transmission of an application may be managed as a separate content stream or as a component of another content instance such as video program.

In alternate embodiments receivers may include any and all of the following operating alone or in combination digital set top cable and satellite receivers integrated components within digital televisions personal computers with appropriate network connections cellular telephones and personal digital assistants PDAs connected through wireless networks or computer network hook ups and gaming consoles. Such receivers typically rely on CA having one or more capabilities similar to those used in television transmission including satellite and other digital radio systems mobile telephones using chip card technology and mobile or home devices and related services for receiving music video or other content that receive content either directly from a network or indirectly through a computer such as the iPod music player and iTunes music service.

Receivers may have the ability to receive software updates and applications through communication network . In television and other receivers these applications do not necessarily require interaction with the user as they may execute in the background without the user s knowledge or during the receiver off state.

Receivers may also include one or more application execution environment to receive and execute scripts or compiled or interpreted applications. Examples include various Java systems such as Personal Java Java TV and others as implemented in computers web browsers and other devices. For embodiments receiving television signals application execution environments of receiver include iTV products and specifications such as WebTV and MSN TV services the Wink and OpenTV systems and specifications such as DVB MHP from the DVB Project and OCAP Open Cable Application Platform from the Society of Cable Telecommunications Engineers SCTE and others. Other applications such as an EPG an audience measurement application an advertising management system or others may be implemented as applications within an application execution environment or may include an application execution environment which may provide similar capabilities to an iTV system for running interactive or background applications. Additional systems with similar capabilities for receiver are known in the art.

In an embodiment for distribution of television signals in network whether using analog digital or a combination of both technologies network and receiver typically rely on the encryption and access control components provided in network and CA . Such components control receivers that have access to particular content and signals in network whether in the form of specific viewing channels program selections or other features available to the subscriber such as interactive applications. Examples of these security systems that may be implemented include the Simulcrypt specifications developed by the DVB Project Geneva Switzerland conditional access systems and smart cards from Nagravision SA Cheseaux Switzerland and NDS Group plc Middlesex UK and the conditional access subsystems of the DigiCipher II products from Motorola Inc. Schaumburg Ill. and the PowerVu products from Scientific Atlanta Inc. Lawrenceville Ga. Other systems for controlling or facilitating access have been implemented which systems include applications for parental control methods such as the V Chip technology offered by Tri Vision International LTD Toronto Canada the electronic program guide EPG products offered by Gemstar TV Guide International Inc. Los Angeles Calif. and video copy protection products from Macrovision Corporation Santa Clara Calif.

As previously described security and authentication of access may be provided by CA and other components at the site of the operator of network such as encoders and within receivers as described above with reference to .

CA communicates authorizations to access and use signals to RCAS located on each receiver . Receiver RCAS or a component or subsystem peripheral to RCAS such as a smart card typically has one or more identifiers. These identifiers alone or in combination may identify receiver in network and may be used by CA or other systems to communicate with and send authorization commands to RCAS or other components or subsystems of receiver . These authorizations are typically based on transmitting one or more authorizations periodically to a receiver upon receiver requesting a list of authorized services from CA or for services such as pay per view movies on a credit scheme where the credit is transmitted to or provided with receiver and the credit is reduced through usage of pay per view content at receiver . In a credit scheme the credit may be based on a financial amount dollars a number of tokens or other methods that are known in the art. The credit may be provided by SMS that may be separately accessed by a user of receiver such as by telephone orders to SMS . In such an embodiment the authorization request and related credit information to is provided by SMS to CA for processing and transmission to receiver . Examples of SMS include systems such as those provided by DST Innovis Inc. El Dorado Hills Calif. CSG Systems Incorporated Englewood Colo. and others.

Content servers and referred to hereafter generally as content server or CS may include servers for video on demand VOD pay per view PPV impulse pay per view IPPV applications such as interactive television iTV or other forms of content software or services. Authorization for use of these services is typically enabled through SMS with actual control of the services handled either directly by the server or a related server access control component or through a system providing access control services such as CA . For example SMS may pass VOD authorization commands for specific receivers to CA . CA may then in turn forward authorization messages to a VOD server or may periodically pass a full list of authorized receivers to a VOD server. Other methods for managing and propagating authorizations will be known to those of skill in the art.

An authorization sequence for service access in television distribution systems as described above is typically based on an operator s entry of the authorization to an SMS . The SMS then generates one or more commands which are sent from the SMS to the CA system or other CS based on an agreed protocol and a set of commands between SMS and CA or CS . The CA or CS may in turn use the commands from SMS to generate one or more commands and send them to the RCAS or other component or subsystem in receiver or to another component that has a measure of control over service usage such as a CS or subsystem thereof. The communication and format of commands between instances of CA CS RCAS or other receiver components typically differs from the format and protocol of commands sent between the SMS and the CA or CS .

This process can result in multiple separate contexts for the characteristics of a receiver including 

Inconsistencies may develop between these multiple contexts wherein the information on a receiver may not be synchronized among the SMS CA CS RCAS and other receiver subsystems or a change in characteristics such as those related to authorization or location on one system may not be reflected on another system.

Detection of errors in receiver information is often rendered difficult as a compromised receiver may in itself appear to be properly configured but a specific indicia of location may be related to an inventory state such as a test status in which receiver is expected to be at a specific location such as a warehouse of the operator. A set of receivers may be configured and expected to be in a specific location such as a home but one or more of these receivers may have been moved to a different home. Receivers may have deliberately or inadvertently migrated between different networks of the same or multiple operators resulting in inventory errors and problems in inventory and cost management. Functions simply may not be available for a receiver SMS CA or CS system to identify report on or take action on these discrepancies.

A method and system are provided for identifying and correcting inconsistencies in receiver indicia of location and optionally where location errors are identified taking measures to prevent the usage of the receiver or correct the receiver information.

Referring to a flow chart of steps an method of the embodiment of the method for identifying and correcting errors in receiver indicia of location in network is shown. Briefly the steps of the method include target receiver list generation corrective action list generation and corrective action undertaking . These steps are elaborated later in this document.

Furthermore within the network of multiple instances of each of CA system SMS system and content server CS may exist and be accessed by one or more ACRS .

In an embodiment indicia of location include one or more indicators relating to communication with a receiver that is intended for receiving signals in network . An indicator relating to communication may be for example the identification of a communication path to or from receiver on network or data related to the communication such as a signal strength indicator or a response time to a poll such as a ping command or evidence that receiver is defined on network within a system such as CA SMS or CS. As examples a communication path between a receiver and network may specifically be related to the communication between the receiver and CA or receiver and CS.

Indicia of location may also include an indicator relating to an inventory state for a receiver on network . A service state may be for example an indicator from SMS that a receiver may be able to receive services but in a test or other state in which a receiver is expected to be in a specific location such as a warehouse used by the operator for receiver testing purposes. Other such states may exist where a receiver is able to receive services but not on a subscriber account and in which state a receiver is not expected to be active for more than a specified amount of time. For example a receiver may not be expected to be in test state for more than a specified number of days. As another example a receiver may be in an inventory state specific to pre installation where the receiver can be providing services immediately when received by a subscriber but such pre installation should be superseded by placing the receiver in a different inventory state such as an indication that the receiver is on an account for the subscriber within a specified amount of time.

Indicia of location may be expected to be common for a specified set of receivers . For example a receiver may be tied to an account and on this account other receivers are also configured. Another indicia of location relating a receiver to other receivers may be an indicator of location such as an address postal code such as a ZIP or ZIP 4 code or other indicator of location.

Referring to flow charts are shown to elaborate step of for the generation of a target receiver list . Briefly the steps of the method include the acquisition of two or more indicia of location from a variety of data sources and comparing the values of the indicia of location to one or more expected combinations of indicia of location to determine if inconsistent settings of indicia of location may exist for the receiver or for a set of receivers . In an embodiment it is determined whether a indicia of location such as relating to an indicator relating to receiver location is inconsistent with another indicia of location such as relating to an indicator relating to an inventory state which would imply one of a set of one or more specific locations for receiver . From the determination it can be ascertained whether a receiver has an inconsistency in its indicia of location.

The information required for obtaining and creating target receiver list may be available in a single system or through a system which can access multiple systems as if these were a single system. In such a case a single query can be designed to directly create target list by applying one or more search criteria within a query against one or more data sources. In such a case an embodiment may generate target receiver list by examining if a particular receiver has two or more indicia of location associated with it which in combination are not consistent with the receiver being properly configured in network .

The generation of the target receiver list may include an additional step separate step of identifying a specific receiver or set of receivers . As an example the generation of target receiver list may be based on entry by an operator of an identifier for a receiver such as a serial number or an identifier associated with a receiver can be entered such as an account number address telephone number ZIP code or other information. Such an identifier is then used by step to create a target list of receivers. In such a manner the method can quickly be executed for analysing a single receiver account or other set of receivers.

In one embodiment CA system is a source of data . Within a CA system a receiver may also have information related to the communication path of a receiver and a set of one or more communication paths is known to be used by receivers in a set of one or more warehouses. An SMS has information identifying receivers which are in test state and expected to be located at a warehouse. The indicia of location are therefore whether or not a given receiver is in test state on SMS and whether or not given receiver is known by CA to be on a communication path associated with a test warehouse. In the following example where the information of receiver is in table receiver table receivers are identified by a field receiver id a receiver s state is set in column receiver state 

Taking the example further the receiver id and receiver state fields may be in separate tables on separate databases respectively identified in the following example as tables receivers table and receiver state table. These table names could represent database and table combinations views on tables or database or other mechanisms as would be known to those of skill in the art. The tables may be respectively located on the SMS and CA . The controller may contain one or more database or data access tools that allow data sources from multiple systems to be usable from a query operation. An SQL query against these multiple tables could take a form such as 

In other cases multiple queries a hierarchy of queries or single queries with multiple selection criteria may be required from one or more sources to create the target list . Additional data and query structures or fields may be used to map the receiver id fields from the tables as known to those of skill in the art.

In step creates a first list of receivers based on a first query consisting of one or more queries or other data acquisition methods from one or more systems databases or other data sources containing information on receivers . Such data may be used as evidence of one or more indicia of location. The first query may be designed to obtain information on all receivers or on all receivers which may have one or more specific indicia of location or which are associated with one or more identifiers entered as part of step . The first list is referred to herein as inventory list .

Step then creates a second list of receivers based on a second query consisting of one or more queries or other data acquisition methods and the second query may be issued against the same data sources as the first query other data sources or combinations thereof. Such data may be used as evidence of one or more second indicia of location. The second query is designed to obtain information on all receivers that are known to have one or more second indicia of location. The second list is referred to herein as secondary list .

Step then creates a target receiver list which is a third list consisting of information on receivers that are in inventory list but that are not in secondary list . Target list is therefore a list of receivers that have a combination of indicia of location that are deemed inconsistent.

While shows the sources of data and as separate for steps and any or all of data sources could be the same as any or all of data sources and may in fact be a single source.

In the embodiments described above CA and SMS were identified as potential sources of data. Other sources of data and for receiver indicia of location may include inventory state service usage records communication records or combinations thereof such as but not limited to 

Multiple instances of data taken at different times from one or more of the preceding sources may be used. As an example data from a CA may be extracted at one point in time and extracted again at another point in time. Two or more extracts taken at different times from the same source may be considered different data sources for the purposes of description of the invention herein.

Multiple instances of the same type of source system or of the same type of source system may be used. For example an operator may have sufficient receivers to require multiple CA systems and multiple physical or logical SMS systems. The multiple instances of CA systems or SMS systems may be of different types. Two or more instances of the same source system type may be considered different data sources for the purposes of description of the invention herein

The generation of target list may be based on a variety of indicia of location. The selection of indicia of location may be based on hypothetical or verified inconsistencies in values or settings of indicia of location for receivers . Variances may occur because of operational errors system failures and other causes. Combinations of indicia of location may be selected based on identifying areas where different systems may allow access to one or more features even though another system may indicate that access to the same one or more features is forbidden.

Queries for receiver indicia of location may include one or more identifiers used to identify a particular receiver . For operational security or other reasons the identifier for a receiver as used in SMS may be different from the identifier used for CA system or other system such as an IPPV system to communicate with the receiver . Within steps or could be accessing sources of data to match two or more receiver identifiers to ensure that step has the appropriate identifier within the target receiver list .

In one embodiment an indicia of location of a set of receivers is that they share they share the same indicator of location and a second indicia of location of a set of receivers is that given that they are within the same location they should be on the same communication path .

As a further example if a specific receiver is identified in step as a target for execution of the method the following algorithm would implement the generation of the target list based on examination of the indicia of location or the receivers on the same account 

In one embodiment a indicia of location of a set of receivers is that they share they share the same indicator of location and a second indicia of location of a set of receivers is that given that they are within the same location and on the same communication path the response characteristics of the receivers on the same communication path should be similar.

The range of expected signal level and poll response time may vary from receiver model to receiver model. For example a newer model Y receiver may have a faster processor and improved transmitter over an earlier model X receiver.

The acceptable range of signal strength and polling response time for receivers sharing the same geographical indicator may be determined by a variety of methods including 

Specific testing in one or more locations of response times and signal strength for a group of receivers. Furthermore multiple receiver models may be tested to test for relative differences in signal strength and response time between receiver models

Statistical testing of receivers with the same indicator of geographical location. Means averages and other computations can be used to determine acceptable signal strength and poll response based on analysis of a sample or the totality of receivers with the same indicator of geographical location. The analysis may be replicated or subdivided for individual receiver types and models.

The acceptable range of a response indicator or combinations of response indicators of signal strength may be determined by establishing the upper and lower limits within which a specified number or percentage of the responses for a given set of receivers response qualifier is contained referred to as hereafter as a discriminator. For example if the discriminator is specified as 95 and 95 of receivers with the same indicator of geographical location respond within 30 ms to 50 ms then any receivers with a poll response time lower that 30 ms or higher than 50 ms may be deemed to have a high probability of being location outside of the intended geographical area.

The acceptable range of signal strength or poll delay may also be determined by identifying an acceptable difference between the receivers with the highest value and lowest value for the indicator. For example the difference in poll delay between the slowest and fastest response for receivers on the account may be limited to 20 ms.

As an example the following pseudo code can be used to generate the target list where the poll delay from CA for a receiver is assumed to be in ms 

As a further example if a specific receiver is identified in step as the target for execution of the method the following algorithm would implement the generation of the target list based on examination of the indicia of location or the receivers on the same account 

For the above methods multiple instances of the poll response may be used. For example an operator may choose to analyse the poll responses over a minimum number of days and use the average signal strength and or response time from multiple polls. Furthermore the operator may choose to discard some values such as the highest and or lowest values to compensate for what may be temporary or intermittent network or equipment problems aberrations or states that could affect the measurement.

In one embodiment a indicia of location of a receiver is that it has a given communication path or communication path and one or more response characteristics on the communication path such as signal strength and poll response delay taken at a given time identified as TIME and a second indicia of location is the same communication path information for receiver taken at TIME. A change either of these characteristics without a corresponding change in another value such as the account or address may be an indication of unauthorized relocation of the receiver degradation of communication equipment tampering with equipment such as addition of a splitter or removal of a filter or other problem that may require investigation or correction.

As an example the following pseudo code can be used to generate the target list and we use the poll response delay POLL DELAY at different times as the indicia of location. For a given receiver the difference between poll delays at a different times is not expected to be greater than a specified number of ms identified as MAX DELAY 

In one embodiment a indicia of location of a receiver is that it is in a state within which a receiver should not be for longer than a specified time MAX STATE TIME with the information obtained on the state of receiver at a given time identified as TIME and a second indicia of location is the information on receiver being taken at TIME and the time difference between TIME and TIME is greater than MAX STATE TIME. A receiver in such a state for more than MAX STATE TIME may need to be investigated and its status corrected.

Such states may include receiver testing demonstration or pre delivery to a customer so that the receiver is immediately enabled. Such inventory states are typically intended to be temporary in nature and are referred to herein as temporary inventory states. A receiver with such temporary inventory state may be referred to as being in a specific state such as a test state truck roll state or other state. Different states may have different values of MAX STATE TIME associated with them.

By establishing a time limit time limit within which a receiver may be within a certain state or within a defined group of states the following steps can detect a receiver that is inappropriately configured on the system.

In the following pseudo code example receivers in state TEST STATE are compared at two different times TIME and TIME which differ more than

In one embodiment a indicia of location of a receiver is that it is defined on one system such a CA SMS or CS and a second indicia of location is that the same receiver is identified on a second instance of respectively CA SMS or CS .

Receivers may appear on multiple such systems because of errors in data entry system configuration inventory management theft and other causes. Such entries can lead to inaccurate business statistics loss of inventory and other problems.

As an example when checking for the existing of a receiver on two SMS systems identified at SMS and SMS the following pseudo code can be used to generate the target list 

As a further example if a specific receiver is identified in step as the target for execution of the method the following algorithm would implement the generation of the target list based on examination of the indicia of location or the receivers on the same account 

Turning to step of once target receiver list has been generated the network operator of network may create a corrective action list for taking one or more corrective actions. Corrective actions for controlling inconsistencies in receiver indicia of location in network may take many forms including automated or manual methods of actions. Prior to the taking of corrective actions the embodiment may optionally further confirm that one or more receivers on the target receiver list is in fact engaged in inappropriate usage. In some embodiments such confirmation may include polling each receiver identified by target receiver list .

Corrective actions may also be targeted at a particular receiver at a component of network used to control network access by the receiver or at the user of the receiver . Furthermore corrective action may be selected based on further queries and analysis.

Once generated the corrective action list may also simply represent a list of target list receivers and the inconsistencies in indicia of location identified for each receiver in the target list .

By way of illustration an example of corrective action list generation is provided below where a list of receivers which are on accounts on SMS where the different receivers on an account have different communication paths indicating that at least one receiver is in an inappropriate location

By way of illustration provides a flowchart illustrating an example of the corrective action list generation and corrective action undertaking of that may take place if usage records are a consideration. In this example the operator of network may disable one or more particular receivers or may take legal action against the alleged user of the receivers before disabling the one or more receivers .

In this example after step of step of is implemented by steps and of and step of is implemented by steps and of .

Referring to in step a determination is made of whether subscriber information is available. This could include information from the account for the receiver on SMS . If no such record is available then step generates a command for disabling the receiver . Disabling receiver may for example merely be limited to disabling a functional capability of receiver such as disabling access to a group of service or service offering of network as described below or simply removing the receiver from the inventory or records of SMS CA or other systems.

If usage records are available to positively identify a subscriber in step then step is taken to determine if the location of the receiver can be identified. If the location cannot be identified then step generates a command for disabling the receiver . If within step the location of the receiver can be identified then step generates a command to take legal action against the alleged user of the receiver and then step is taken to generate a command to disable the receiver .

Based on the results of these further queries or analysis the operator may choose different corrective actions. These could include and are not limited to 

Once a target receiver list has been generated the operator of network may optionally choose to take corrective action in an attempt to disable one or more capabilities services or other function of a receiver identified by the list to disable such a receiver to provide some form of advisory to the user that inappropriate usage is taking place at such receiver or to identify the user or location of the receiver .

In one embodiment the optional corrective action undertaking step referred to in may issue commands to disable one or more of the receivers in the target list . For one or more receivers in the target list a set of one or more commands is created to disable the receiver . The resulting target receiver commands list may be provided as one or more sets of commands to CA . One or more commands may be used for each receiver and the format of each command and the resulting list will be based on identifiers for each receiver the type of receiver and the capabilities of the conditional access system . Where multiple receiver types are supported and multiple conditional access systems are in use the list of commands may be separated into separate lists for execution on each conditional access system type. It will be appreciated that the format and selection of the commands and the method for loading and executing the commands on the conditional access systems may differ in different embodiments.

In one embodiment the command selected for transmission to each receiver could be a cancel all services command. Such a command would disable all services available to the receiver .

In one embodiment the optional corrective action undertaking step referred to in may issue one or more commands to remove the receiver from one or more given system such as a CA SMS or CS

In another embodiment the receiver or a subsystem or component of the receiver may have been compromised in a manner that prevents one or more specific commands from executing on the receiver . In such cases the commands that are prevented from executing may be those that are transmitted by SMS to CA for cancellation or disabling of services of capabilities of the receiver or the receiver itself. The range of commands that SMS is configured or programmed to send to CA system may be a subset of the commands available to the CA subsystem. In such cases the commands used in the command list may be selected specifically because they are different from those normally used by SMS .

The appropriate commands to be generated in command list may be dependent on the conditional access system and receivers or will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

The corrective actions that may be undertaken may consist of the disabling of means of communication to the receiver . In one embodiment the connection of a cable to the home of a customer may be controlled by an addressable tap which is a device that allows the physical cable connection to a receiver be remotely disabled. The secondary list or the inventory list may be generated in a manner that includes information required to address the tap for the location in which receiver is assumed to be located. The corrective actions may also query another system or combinations of systems such as SMS or a system used to manage addressable taps to determine the information required to address the tap for a given receiver . The corrective action may then provide a list of addresses or a batch of commands to a tap management system or other system used to remotely control the taps to disable the taps related to the target receivers .

In other embodiments the corrective action may consist of the issuing of a warning message to the user of a receiver on the target list separately or in combination with the disabling of a service or a set of services on the receiver . The message may take the form of an on screen message directed to one or more receivers in the target list . Another method of presenting the message is to create a channel or other service that will be used and configured for communicating messages to one or more of the receivers in the target list . Commands generated for one of more of the receivers in the target list will be selected to authorize the receivers for the service. Messages may direct the user of the receiver to take certain steps such as contacting the operator or a proxy for the operator to aid in identification of the user or in recovery of the receiver .

In still other embodiments corrective action command list may take different measures to disable the receiver . These may include and are not limited to 

It will be appreciated that other measures may be undertaken in other embodiments as will be available based on particular receiver and conditional access system implementations.

Further still in other embodiments the corrective action command list may optimize the target receiver commands based on the capabilities of conditional access system to reduce the number or commands or the bandwidth used by the commands. These optimizations may include various methods of directing a single command to multiple receivers and may be dependent on the type of CA system use as known to those of skill in the art.

The corrective action undertaking step can occur in either automated or manual ways. The volume and timing of corrective actions may be controlled to prevent interference with other network operations in network .

For example in one embodiment corrective action undertaking step may be done on CA and may require a level of flow control to ensure that the execution and transmission of commands to the receivers does not impede the operation of the conditional access system and network or other services on network . Measures may include but are not limited to 

Services that may be affected on network include network message volumes from a variety of systems and services such as pay per view services and receiver authorization traffic the volume of calls to the network operator s customer support center which may see an increased work volume when receivers are being cancelled as described above.

In another example of taking corrective action CA SMS CS or other systems used to undertake corrective actions step may not provide an interface for batch issuing of commands. In such a case a computer can be used to connect to a terminal network or other interface available on network . The computer may emulate the actions of a human operator by reading prompts and issuing commands based on the prompts. Programmable interfaces to terminal emulators can be used or test tools that simulate user interaction with a graphical user interface may also be used. Other methods of emulating a user through a computer system s user interfaces are known to those of skill in the art.

Other interfaces or methods may be used to undertake corrective action. They may include but are not limited to 

As described herein the identification of a receiver within the target list may be considered sufficient to warrant taking civil legal or other action against the user of the receiver based on violation of user agreements contracts local state provincial national international or other forms laws or regulations governing the use of the receiver . As an example in the embodiments described above the multiple communication paths from a set of receivers on an account may be considered as evidence that a user was engaged in inappropriate receiver usage.

A system is now described for implementing the methods of the invention described herein. An access and reporting system referred to hereafter as ACRS may consist of one or more processors with one or more data storage facilities such as a database file system or other storage medium known to those of skill in the art. The ACRS is configured with software to access data from target systems such as CA SMS and CS .

The ACRS can access the data on the CA SMS and CS in a variety of ways. A single ACRS may use different access methods for different tasks to suit operator preferences performance issues and other requirements

In one embodiment the ACRS uses a database access method DAM provided by the vendor of the database or a third party to access the Data server . Examples include the Informix Connect product for Informix database the TDS product for the Sybase database and others for respective database managers. Accessing the data using such a mechanisms is usually done using the SQL or similar computer language. Furthermore 

For illustrative purposes in the following description the ACSR is shown accessing data from a CA . This is used as an example and for the purposes of the description CA can be substituted for SMS CS and multiples and combinations thereof.

Data on the various target system such as CA SMS and CS can be stored and accessible in a variety of formats with appropriate implementations of DAM data server and data store . Examples include and are not limited to instances and combinations of 

Other mechanisms may be available for storing and transferring data. For technological or operational preference reasons there are may not be network access facilities in which case the data access may consists of writing data to a form of removable media as data store such as backup tapes files disks and other media. DAM would be the process of physically moving the removable media to the ACRS and loading it with applicable media reader and software.

Features available on the target systems. Target systems may provide a variety of facilities and methods for data transfer and the data may be accessed or transferred in a variety of formats.

Performance considerations. The method of the transfer may be selected or applied in a manner that reduces the risk of affecting the target system s own performance.

Security and operational considerations. For perceived or real security or operational reasons the network operator or provider of the target systems may wish to restrict access to certain features or forms of data. For instance it may be technically possible but not permitted to have direct access to a database engine precluding both a method direct communication with database using SQL through ODBC or custom database protocol and a form direct table access of the data. In such a care reporting tools provide by the vendor or third parties may be able to create reports or extracts with the data required and the data can then be transferred using another method.

The CA database server may provide a variety of security mechanisms to control or prevent access to its data. The DAM and other facilities of the ACRS may implement additional mechanisms to improve security of the perception of security. These optionally include at least one of the following 

The DAM may extract the data in different ways. Large volumes of data can be extracted so that once the data is extracted subsequent requests will not access the CA . Specific data can be accessed separately so that the most up to date data is acquired.

In one embodiment the DAM acquires the data from a list of one or more tables from the Data server . The data from these tables is stored within the ACRS data store . Furthermore the data may be filtered to remove certain columns or types of columns or to convert data to a different format. This method can provide significant advantages for running reports or data analysis on the ACRS . As an example running an SQL query against two or more tables on the Data server can result in a requirement for significant memory and processing resources to read and combine the data. Running a subsequent instance of the same report or a report using one or more of the same tables may result in the same data being read again. By extracting the tables to the ACRS data is only accessed once and computing load is reduced on the CA .

ACRS may have multiple users or processes with requirements to access data from the Data server . Access may be restricted or controlled based on variety of factors such as user process time of day and other factors.

In one embodiment a given set of users or processes is restricted to only accessing data from the ACRS database server which has been extracted from the CA . These users are not allowed to access the CA directly. Methods for this restriction can include 

In another embodiment accessing data directly from the CA may be restricted to certain times of day. This may be required to ensure the high priority processing is unhindered or unaffected by the additional workload that would be cause by data accesses from the ACRS . Furthermore certain functions operating on a CA such as backup or upgrade operations may preclude any active external access during the performance of these functions on the CA .

Connections to databases are typically logical as several connections can be made to a database over single network connection to a database server. A database server may allocate memory processing and other resources to each connection. A connection may further provide the ability to handle multiple cursors where each cursor maintains a query session context for a sequence of one or more queries. These concepts of cursors and connections are well known to those of skill in the art and implemented in the most common database systems.

In one embodiment a DAM may use one or more connections to a given Data server . For example with database engines processes access to the database by opening a connection to the database. Each connection to the database results in the database allocating memory and potentially other resources to the connection. Furthermore using a single connection or managing a single connection so that only one query can execute at a time can reduce the potential for multiple ACRS queries happening at the same time on the CA and therefore act as a throttling process.

In another embodiment separate tasks classes or groups of tasks users or groups of users may each have their own connection or set of connections. For example the extraction of a table or set of tables may take a significant amount of time and could cause unacceptable delays for other queries queued behind the table extraction. As an example in the table extraction process issues queries through its own database connection in a manner that allows the table extraction queries would run in parallel with the other queries.

As another example a group of users such as a group of technical service representatives TSRs handling technical escalations for a large call center may need to relatively frequently access detailed information. The group of users of the application or an application may be configured to use one or more connections that remain open to make subsequent queries faster and minimise the resources used on the target systems such as the CA SMS CS or other systems.

Also in the example of queries from a set of TSR can be flowing from one or more TSR processes to a single to the DAM which then processes the queries through connections C to Data server . Implementations of mechanisms to process multiple queries through a single connection may provide sequential and or concurrent query submission and processing through a single connection and the ability to provide concurrent processing also referred to as multiple threads may be configurable.

In another embodiment a database connection is only established for the duration of a query or set of queries. The ACRS may only need to access the Data server on an infrequent basis. It may therefore not be necessary to maintain an open database connection. While the opening and closing of a connection may take some computing resource no memory or other resources are used between queries. As an example of where this may be applicable technical head end staff may only access receiver information from the CA on an occasional basis. It may therefore be desirable to only leave the connection in place for the duration of a query.

Configurations may exist where one or more ACRS systems are required to access data from one or more ACRS target systems. Examples of requirements may include and are not limited to redundancy configurations where a backup system is required performance issues where the volume of query application analysis or other processing work may require additional resources and security where a system may require configuration in a manner that allows access to extracted data but not direct access to the CA .

In one embodiment for data extracts tables etc. only ACRS may be configured to pull the extracts directly from CA . ACRS to obtain the same data may copy all or portions of the ACRS database from ACRS .

In another embodiment facilities such as replication capabilities of a database may be used to obtain data to populate or keep up to date a second ACRS from the database of the first ACRS . Various commercial databases include such capabilities either as standard or optional features as is known to those of skill in the art.

In another embodiment the data obtained by ACRS from two or more instances or combinations of CA SMS or SMS is acquired in a manner or at a time that ensures that the data from said two or more systems is synchronized so that any data pertaining to a given at least one data element for said one of two or more systems properly corresponds to the data related to said given at least one data element on the other of said two or more systems.

ACRS may retain two or more sets of data collected at different times. This different time may be a specified time interval. The availability of data collected at different times allows other comparisons to be made to identify potential unauthorized usage and other problems as described herein. The methods of the present invention as described herein can be applied to all receivers on the applicable systems to groups of receivers or where applicable to single receivers.

In one embodiment the software of the ACRS system is implemented with software and interfaces to allow entry of a receiver identifier or identifier associated with a receiver or a group of receivers and then to exercise the methods of the invention against the specific receiver or a set of receivers associated with the identifier. Examples of an identifier for a receiver or a group of receivers can include a receiver serial number an account number a customer phone number a communication path a zip code an account status and others.

The receiver identifier is specified. This is typically a receiver instance but may include other information explicitly or implicitly to direct the subsequent steps. Furthermore the subsequent steps may acquire said other information explicitly or implicitly and may acquire set information through the process of step or independently. Examples of said other information include and are not limited to 

Receiver data may be acquired in a variety of manners. It may be collected independently from a CA system on paper in a spreadsheet database or other system. It may also be acquired from an ACRS system as described herein using any of the methods described for those systems. The information to be acquired my be implicit or explicit in the invocation of step or earlier step or may be directed limited and or constrained by factors such as 

Step may take further steps to specifically identify a receiver. This method is applicable but not specific to embodiments of ACRS where information on multiple CA is available to said ACRS in which a receiver has been defined on multiple systems.

In step instances of the receiver serial number are identified in one more CA systems. This may be done manually by accessing data from the multiple systems comprising a CA or using the facilities of an ACRS as described herein. Examples of multiple instances can include and are not limited to separate definitions on multiple access control systems billing systems billing system subsystems inventory management systems etc.

In step a check is made on whether step has identified multiple instances. If multiple instances have been identified in step a user can be presented with information to select a specific instance.

Step and or step can include the retrieval additional data to aid the use in selection of the appropriate instance of the receiver. This information can be presented as part of step . As an example shows an example of such a screen where the billing system and state of the receiver are provided and allow the user to click on the particular receiver to select.

In step the receiver instance selected is passed on to the subsequent steps of the process. Step may pass on the receiver instance information in a manner than uniquely identifies the receiver by including along with the user input information obtained in step or step to further qualify the receiver. As an example step can pass along the receiver instance as the serial number entered and an identifier for the conditional access system and billing system of the receiver as selected in step .

Further limitations constraints or directives which may be applied to the acquisition of data are as described in the earlier ACRS description.

In optional step other receivers associated with said receiver instance are optionally identified using information from any or all of the systems comprising CA . Such receivers may be those within a group of receivers as defined herein such as the receivers on the same account or sharing a common geographical network technical or other characteristic for which receivers would expect to be in one or more common locations and may further consist of as examples and not limited to 

Optional Step verifies if additional receivers associated with the receiver instance selected have been identified. If so step is undertaken to access data from those receivers.

Optional Step may be a separate step as indicated or may have been undertaken as part of step . For example a query requesting identification of other receivers may also provide the data for those receivers. Furthermore the steps of and can technically be consolidated into a single step using a more complex query. A pseudo code example for retrieval of information for receiver 

Such a simplified example is shown in and which can be used to provide information for a single receiver or all receivers on an account or within another grouping.

The separation of steps can be advantageous for performance and other reasons as the selection of data for the other receivers within the receiver group may be different than the data selected for the specified receiver.

In one embodiment the information acquired for said other receivers may consist of a subset of the information provided for said specified receiver. As an example shows detailed information for the specified receiver and a summary of information for the other receivers on the account. This summary may include the specified receiver as shown in .

In another embodiment the information acquired for said other receivers may be acquired in a manner different from the acquisition of information of the said specified receiver. For example the detailed information on the specified receiver in may have been retrieved from the conditional access system while the information on the other receivers may have been acquired from data stored on a system such as for example an ACRS which was retrieved earlier as an extract from the conditional access system or other systems comprising CA . Various methods of acquiring data are defined in the description herein of ACRS .

In another embodiment when acquiring data for different receivers within a groups different access methods may be required to obtain the data for the receivers. For example if the serial number for a television receiver was specified the particular request made may require information on both television receivers and cable modems related to the account. In such a case ACRS may access information from differing CA system types for the cable modems and television receivers which may have different databases and data store types.

In step and the data acquired is analyzed using the methods described herein for identifying inconsistencies in receiver indicia of location. In step one or more of the methods applicable to identifying inconsistencies in indicia of location for a single receiver are applied to each receiver forming part of the selection from steps and . In step one or more of the methods applicable to identifying inconsistencies in indicia of location for two or more receivers are applied.

In step the information from the preceding steps is presented as an implementation of the Corrective Action Undertaking in step of . As an example the step may be implemented as presentation of the data. As an example in this is done by presenting information on all receivers on an account when one receiver on the account is specified and then identifying CounterStryx Status message box at the bottom of the screen that there is an upstream path discrepancy between receivers on the account.

In the embodiment of user permissions configuration options or application requirements may be such that only information for a single receiver is to be presented. In such a case only steps and are required.

In the embodiment of only data for a single receiver is required as is the case in the embodiment of . However step is added to analyse the receiver for problems.

In the embodiment of the receiver identifier instead consists of an identifier for a group of receivers. Step replaces step of . As an example the group identifier could be an account number. In Step all the required information for the receivers in the group is acquired.

In another embodiment a system implementing the methods of the invention may allow a user to select one or more data sources for the receiver or set of receivers on which to apply the methods of the invention. As an example an ACRS may have extracted a full set of receiver data from multiple CA and SMS systems. The selector box of displaying MAXXIAN TEST DAC allows the user to specify which CA system to query for the receiver. The buttons beside the serial number entry box labelled From Current From DAC DNCS and Search All will direct the search for the receiver to respectively access the required data in different ways. The From Current button would obtain the data from data already extracted from CA instance Maxxian DAC and stored on ACRS . The From DAC DNCS button would obtain the data directly from CA instance Maxxian DAC. The Search All button would check all CA instances known to the system for instances of the receiver. Such a search could go directly to each CA or could use a combined data set on ACRS consisting of receiver lists extracted from each CA .

In one embodiment set top information from heterogeneous systems is displayed in a common format and with common presentation tools. For example the displays is used to display information for either Motorola or Scientific Atlanta receivers

In another embodiment a CA system is a system for managing cable modems and another CA system is a system for managing television receivers. While these are different receiver types they are associated with user accounts on one or more SMS . In such a case the cable modems and television receivers are both considered instances of receivers and can be presented and analysed using the methods of the invention.

In another embodiment a system for managing deployment of cable modems may use a different identifier than the system for managing television receivers for the same communication path . In such an instance a mapping may have to be created to associate a given cable modem identifier for communication path with a given identifier for the television receiver communication path . Such a mapping may require accessing data from other sources which may or may not be available in computer readable form such as plant cabling blueprints and other documentation.

In some embodiments network is a cable television distribution network with set top box television receivers . Other embodiments of the invention may be useful in other receivers and networks such as 

The embodiments described above may be deployed in conjunction with various subscriber receiving devices such as television set top boxes television and audio receivers personal computers or personal digital assistants mobile telephone handsets or other handheld communication devices and the like. Moreover the embodiments may be used to detect inappropriate signal usage in relation to numerous categories of deliverable content in a network whether in the form of voice video sound executable applications data or the like including any combinations thereof.

It will be appreciated from the above examples that a myriad of components and methods may be used to implement embodiments of the present invention. Although the invention has been described with reference to certain specific embodiments various modifications thereof will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as outlined in the claims appended hereto.

