---

title: Soft tissue and bone augmentation and bulking utilizing muscle-derived progenitor cells, compositions and treatments thereof
abstract: The present invention provides muscle-derived progenitor cells that show long-term survival following transplantation into body tissues and which can augment soft tissue following introduction (e.g. via injection, transplantation, or implantation) into a site of soft tissue. Also provided are methods of isolating muscle-derived progenitor cells, and methods of genetically modifying the cells for gene transfer therapy. The invention further provides methods of using compositions comprising muscle-derived progenitor cells for the augmentation and bulking of mammalian, including human, soft tissues in the treatment of various cosmetic or functional conditions, including malformation, injury, weakness, disease, or dysfunction. In particular, the present invention provides treatments and amelioration for dermatological conditions, gastroesophageal reflux, vesico-ureteral reflux, urinary incontinence, fecal incontinence, heart failure, and myocardial infarction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08580561&OS=08580561&RS=08580561
owner: University of Pittsburgh—Of The Commonwealth System Of Higher Education
number: 08580561
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060412
---
This application is a continuation of patent application U.S. Ser. No. 09 549 937 filed Apr. 14 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 417 issued Oct. 3 2006 which is a continuation in part of patent application U.S. Ser. No. 09 302 896 filed Apr. 30 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 issued Mar. 15 2005 which claims benefit of provisional patent application U.S. Ser. No. 60 083 917 filed May 1 1998 the contents of which are incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DK055387 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates to muscle derived progenitor cells MDC and compositions of MDC and their use in the augmentation of body tissues particularly soft tissue and bone. In particular the present invention relates to muscle derived progenitor cells that show long term survival following introduction into soft tissues and bone methods of isolating MDC and methods of using MDC containing compositions for the augmentation of human or animal soft tissues and bone including epithelial adipose nerve organ muscle ligament and cartilage tissue. The invention also relates to novel uses of muscle derived progenitor cells for the treatment of cosmetic or functional conditions such as dermatological conditions gastroesophageal reflux vesico ureteral reflux urinary incontinence fecal incontinence skeletal muscle weakness heart failure and injury or weakness associated with myocardial infarction.

Augmentation of soft tissue using synthetic materials such as silicone or polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE is well known in the art. U.S. Pat. No. 5 876 447 to Arnett discloses the use of silicone implants for facial plastic surgery. However such synthetic materials are foreign to the host tissue and cause an immunological response resulting in the encapsulation of the implant and scarring of the surrounding tissues. Thus the implant may produce additional functional or aesthetic problems.

Soft tissue augmentation using biopolymers such as collagen or hyaluronic acid has also been described. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 424 208 to Wallace et al. discloses methods of augmenting soft tissue utilizing collagen implant material. In addition U.S. Pat. No. 4 965 353 to della Valle et al. discloses esters of hyaluronic acid that can be used in cosmetic surgery. However these biopolymers are also foreign to the host tissue and cause an immunological response resulting in the reabsorption of the injected material. Biopolymers are therefore unable to provide long term tissue augmentation. Overall the use of biopolymers or synthetic materials has been wholly unsatisfactory for the purpose of augmenting soft tissue.

Soft tissue augmentation using cell based compositions has also been developed. U.S. Pat. No. 5 858 390 to Boss Jr. discloses the use of autologous dermal fibroblasts for the treatment of cosmetic and aesthetic skin defects. Although this treatment avoids the problems inherent in the implantation or injection of synthetic materials or biopolymers it results in other complications. Because fibroblasts produce collagen the cells can cause the stiffening and distortion of the tissues surrounding the implant site.

The use of autologous fat cells as an injectable bulking agent has also been described For review see K. Mak et al. 199427 211 22 American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Report on autologous fat transplantation by the ad hoc committee on new procedures 1987 A. Chaichir et al. 198984 921 935 R. A. Ersek 199187 219 228 H. W. Horl et al. 199126 248 258 A. Nguyen et al. 199085 378 389 J. Sartynski et al. 1990102 314 321. However the fat grafting procedure provides only temporary augmentation as injected fat is reabsorbed into the host. In addition fat grafting can result in nodule formation and tissue asymmetry.

Myoblasts the precursors of muscle fibers are mononucleated muscle cells that fuse to form post mitotic multinucleated myotubes which can provide long term expression and delivery of bioactive proteins T. A. Partridge and K. E. Davies 199551 123 137 J. Dhawan et al. 1992254 1509 12 A. D. Grinnell 1994Ed 2 A. G. Engel and C. F. Armstrong McGraw Hill Inc. 303 304 S. Jiao and J. A. Wolff 1992575 143 7 H. Vandenburgh 19967 2195 2200 .

Cultured myoblasts contain a subpopulation of cells that show some of the self renewal properties of stem cells A. Baroffio et al. 199660 47 57 . Such cells fail to fuse to form myotubes and do not divide unless cultured separately A. Baroffio et al. supra . Studies of myoblast transplantation see below have shown that the majority of transplanted cells quickly die while a minority survive and mediate new muscle formation J. R. Beuchamp et al. 1999144 1113 1122 . This minority of cells shows distinctive behavior including slow growth in tissue culture and rapid growth following transplantation suggesting that these cells may represent myoblast stem cells J. R. Beuchamp et al. supra .

Myoblasts have been used as vehicles for gene therapy in the treatment of various muscle and non muscle related disorders. For example transplantation of genetically modified or unmodified myoblasts has been used for the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy E. Gussoni et al. 1992356 435 8 J. Huard et al. 1992 15 550 60 G. Karpati et al. 199334 8 17 J. P. Tremblay et al. 19932 99 112 P. A. Moisset et al. 1998247 94 9 P. A. Moisset et al. 19985 1340 46 . In addition myoblasts have been genetically engineered to produce proinsulin for the treatment of Type 1 diabetes L. Gros et al. 199910 1207 17 Factor IX for the treatment of hemophilia B M. Roman et al. 199218 247 58 S. N. Yao et al. 19941 99 107 J. M. Wang et al. 199790 1075 82 G. Hortelano et al. 199910 1281 8 adenosine deaminase for the treatment of adenosine deaminase deficiency syndrome C. M. Lynch et al. 199289 1138 42 erythropoietin for the treatment of chronic anemia E. Regulier et al. 19985 1014 22 B. Dalle et al. 19996 157 61 and human growth hormone for the treatment of growth retardation K. Anwer et al. 19989 659 70 .

Myoblasts have also been used to treat muscle tissue damage or disease as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 130 141 to Law et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 538 722 to Blau et al. and application U.S. Ser. No. 09 302 896 filed Apr. 30 1999 by Chancellor et al. In addition myoblast transplantation has been employed for the repair of myocardial dysfunction C. E. Murry et al. 199698 2512 23 B. Z. Atkins et al. 199967 124 129 B. Z. Atkins et al. 199918 1173 80 .

In spite of the above in most cases primary myoblast derived treatments have been associated with low survival rates of the cells following transplantation due to migration and or phagocytosis. To circumvent this problem U.S. Pat. No. 5 667 778 to Atala discloses the use of myoblasts suspended in a liquid polymer such as alginate. The polymer solution acts as a matrix to prevent the myoblasts from migrating and or undergoing phagocytosis after injection. However the polymer solution presents the same problems as the biopolymers discussed above. Furthermore the Atala patent is limited to uses of myoblasts in only muscle tissue but no other tissue.

Thus there is a need for other different soft tissue augmentation materials that are long lasting compatible with a wide range of host tissues and which cause minimal inflammation scarring and or stiffening of the tissues surrounding the implant site. Accordingly the muscle derived progenitor cell containing compositions of the present invention are provided as improved and novel materials for augmenting soft tissues. Further provided are methods of producing muscle derived progenitor cell compositions that show long term survival following transplantation and methods of utilizing MDC and compositions containing MDC to treat various aesthetic and or functional defects including for example dermatological conditions or injury and muscle weakness injury disease or dysfunction.

It is notable that prior attempts to use myoblasts for non muscle soft tissue augmentation were unsuccessful U.S. Pat. No. 5 667 778 to Atala . Therefore the findings disclosed herein are unexpected as they show that the muscle derived progenitor cells according to the present invention can be successfully transplanted into non muscle and muscle soft tissue including epithelial tissue and exhibit long term survival. As a result MDC and compositions comprising MDC can be used as a general augmentation material for muscle or non muscle soft tissue augmentation as well as for bone production. Moreover since the muscle derived progenitor cells and compositions of the present invention can be derived from autologous sources they carry a reduced risk of immunological complications in the host including the reabsorption of augmentation materials and the inflammation and or scarring of the tissues surrounding the implant site.

Although mesenchymal stem cells can be found in various connective tissues of the body including muscle bone cartilage etc. H. E. Young et al. 199329A 723 736 H. E. Young et al. 1995202 137 144 the term mesenchymal has been used historically to refer to a class of stem cells purified from bone marrow and not from muscle. Thus mesenchymal stem cells are distinguished from the muscle derived progenitor cells of the present invention. Moreover mesenchymal cells do not express the CD34 cell marker M. F. Pittenger et al 1999284 143 147 which is expressed by the muscle derived progenitor cells described herein.

It is an object of the present invention to provide novel muscle derived progenitor cells MDC and MDC compositions exhibiting long term survival following transplantation. The MDC of this invention and compositions containing the MDC comprise early progenitor muscle cells i.e. muscle derived stem cells that express progenitor cell markers such as desmin M cadherin MyoD myogenin CD34 and Bcl 2. In addition these early progenitor muscle cells express the Flk 1 Sca 1 MNF and c met cell markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit cell markers.

It is another object of the present invention to provide methods for isolating and enriching muscle derived progenitor cells from a starting muscle cell population. These methods result in the enrichment of MDC that have long term survivability after transplantation or introduction into a site of soft tissue. The MDC population according to the present invention is particularly enriched with cells that express progenitor cell markers such as desmin M cadherin MyoD myogenin CD34 and Bcl 2. This MDC population also expresses the Flk 1 Sca 1 MNF and c met cell markers but does not express the CD45 or c Kit cell markers.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide methods of using MDC and compositions comprising MDC for the augmentation of muscle soft tissue or non muscle soft tissue including skin blood vessels adipose nerve skeletal muscle smooth muscle ligament cartilage and various organ tissues without the need for polymer carriers or special culture media for transplantation. Such methods include the administration of MDC compositions by introduction into soft tissue for example by direct injection into tissue or by systemic distribution of the compositions. Preferably soft tissue includes non bone body tissues. More preferably soft tissue includes non striated muscle non bone body tissues. Most preferably soft tissue includes non muscle non bone body tissues. As used herein augmentation refers to filling bulking supporting enlarging extending or increasing the size or mass of body tissue.

It is another object of the present invention to provide MDC based treatments for a cosmetic or aesthetic conditions b gastroesophageal reflux symptoms and conditions c fecal and urinary incontinence and d skeletal and smooth muscle weakness injury disease or dysfunction.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide methods of augmenting bone or soft tissue either muscle derived soft tissue or non muscle derived soft tissue following injury wounding surgeries traumas non traumas or other procedures that result in fissures openings depressions wounds and the like in the skin or in internal soft tissues or organs.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide MDC and compositions comprising MDC that are modified through the use of chemicals growth media and or genetic manipulation. Such MDC and compositions thereof comprise chemically or genetically modified cells useful for the production and delivery of biological compounds and the treatment of various diseases conditions injuries or illnesses.

Additional objects and advantages afforded by the present invention will be apparent from the detailed description and exemplification hereinbelow.

The present invention provides MDC comprised of early progenitor cells also termed muscle derived progenitor cells or muscle derived stem cells herein that show long term survival rates following transplantation into body tissues preferably soft tissues. To obtain the MDC of this invention a muscle explant preferably skeletal muscle is obtained from an animal donor preferably from a mammal including humans. This explant serves as a structural and functional syncytium including rests of muscle precursor cells T. A. Partridge et al. 197873 306 8 B. H. Lipton et al. 1979205 1292 4 .

Cells isolated from primary muscle tissue contain a mixture of fibroblasts myoblasts adipocytes hematopoietic and muscle derived progenitor cells. The progenitor cells of a muscle derived population can be enriched using differential adherence characteristics of primary muscle cells on collagen coated tissue flasks such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 to Chancellor et al. Cells that are slow to adhere tend to be morphologically round express high levels of desmin and have the ability to fuse and differentiate into multinucleated myotubes U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 to Chancellor et al. . A subpopulation of these cells was shown to respond to recombinant human bone morphogenic protein 2 rhBMP 2 in vitro by expressing increased levels of alkaline phosphatase parathyroid hormone dependent 3 5 cAMP and osteocalcin indicative of their ability to differentiate through both osteogenic lineage and myogenic lineages U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 to Chancellor et al. T. Katagiri et al. 1994127 1755 1766 .

In accordance with the present invention populations of rapidly adhering MDC PP1 4 and slowly adhering round MDC PP6 were isolated and enriched from skeletal muscle explants and tested for the expression of various markers using immunohistochemistry to determine the presence of pluripotent cells among the slowly adhering cells Example 1 patent application U.S. Ser. No. 09 302 896 of Chancellor et al. . As shown in Table 3 Example 9 herein the PP6 cells expressed myogenic markers including desmin MyoD and Myogenin. The PP6 cells also expressed c met and MNF two genes which are expressed at an early stage of myogenesis J. B. Miller et al. 199943 191 219 see Table 3 . The PP6 showed a lower percentage of cells expressing M cadherin a satellite cell specific marker A. Irintchev et al. 1994199 326 337 but a higher percentage of cells expressing Bcl 2 a marker limited to cells in the early stages of myogenesis J. A. Dominov et al. 1998142 537 544 . The PP6 cells also expressed CD34 a marker identified with human hematopoietic progenitor cells as well as stromal cell precursors in bone marrow R. G. Andrews et al. 198667 842 845 C. I. Civin et al. 1984133 157 165 L. Fina et al 199075 2417 2426 P. J. Simmons et al. 199178 2848 2853 see Table 3 . The PP6 cells also expressed Flk 1 a mouse homologue of human KDR gene which was recently identified as a marker of hematopoietic cells with stem cell like characteristics B. L. Ziegler et al. 1999285 1553 1558 see Table 3 . Similarly the PP6 cells expressed Sca 1 a marker present in hematopoietic cells with stem cell like characteristics M. van de Rijn et al. 198986 4634 8 M. Osawa et al. 1996156 3207 14 see Table 3 . However the PP6 cells did not express the CD45 or c Kit hematopoietic stem cell markers reviewed in LK. Ashman 199931 1037 51 G. A. Koretzky 19937 420 426 see Table 3 .

Preferred in the present invention is the PP6 population of muscle derived progenitor cells having the characteristics described herein. These muscle derived progenitor cells express the desmin CD34 and Bcl 2 cell markers. In accordance with the present invention the PP6 cells are isolated by the techniques described herein Example 1 to obtain a population of muscle derived progenitor cells that have long term survivability following transplantation. The PP6 muscle derived progenitor cell population comprises a significant percentage of cells that express progenitor cell markers such as desmin CD34 and Bcl 2. In addition PP6 cells express the Flk 1 and Sca 1 cell markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit markers. Preferably greater than 95 of the PP6 cells express the desmin Sca 1 and Flk 1 markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit markers. It is preferred that the PP6 cells are utilized within about 1 day or about 24 hours after the last plating.

As an alternative to the pre plating method the MDC of the present invention can be isolated by fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS analysis using labeled antibodies against one or more of the cell surface markers expressed by the MDC C. Webster et al. 1988174 252 65 J. R. Blanton et al. 199922 43 50 . For example FACS analysis can be performed using labeled antibodies to directed to CD34 Flk 1 Sca 1 and or the other cell surface markers described herein to select a population of PP6 like cells that exhibit long term survivability when introduced into the host tissue. Also encompassed by the present invention is the use of one or more fluorescence detection labels for example fluorescein or rhodamine for antibody detection of different cell marker proteins.

In one embodiment of the present invention the MDC are isolated from a skeletal muscle source and introduced or transplanted into a muscle or non muscle soft tissue site of interest or into bone structures. Advantageously the MDC of the present invention are isolated and enriched to contain a large number of progenitor cells showing long term survival following transplantation. In addition the muscle derived progenitor cells of this invention express a number of characteristic cell markers such desmin CD34 and Bcl 2. Furthermore the muscle derived progenitor cells of this invention express the Sca 1 and Flk 1 cell markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit cell markers see Example 1 .

MDC and compositions comprising MDC of the present invention can be used to repair treat or ameliorate various aesthetic or functional conditions e.g. defects through the augmentation of muscle or non muscle soft tissues. In particular such compositions can be used as soft tissue bulking agents for the treatment of 1 cosmetic and aesthetic conditions of the skin 2 conditions of the lumen 3 gastroesophageal reflux symptoms or conditions 4 fecal incontinence 5 skeletal muscle weakness disease injury or dysfunction and 6 smooth muscle weakness disease injury or dysfunction. In addition such MDC and compositions thereof can be used for augmenting soft tissue not associated with injury by adding bulk to a soft tissue area opening depression or void in the absence of disease or trauma such as for smoothing or removing a wrinkle. Multiple and successive administrations of MDC are also embraced by the present invention.

For MDC based treatments a skeletal muscle explant is preferably obtained from an autologous or heterologous human or animal source. An autologous animal or human source is more preferred. MDC compositions are then prepared and isolated as described herein. To introduce or transplant the MDC and or compositions comprising the MDC according to the present invention into a human or animal recipient a suspension of mononucleated muscle cells is prepared. Such suspensions contain concentrations of the muscle derived progenitor cells of the invention in a physiologically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent. For example suspensions of MDC for administering to a subject can comprise 10to 10cells ml in a sterile solution of complete medium modified to contain the subject s serum as an alternative to fetal bovine serum. Alternatively MDC suspensions can be in serum free sterile solutions such as cryopreservation solutions Celox Laboratories St. Paul Minn. . The MDC suspensions can then be introduced e.g. via injection into one or more sites of the donor tissue.

The described cells can be administered as a pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable preparation or composition containing a physiologically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent and administered to the tissues of the recipient organism of interest including humans and non human animals. The MDC containing composition can be prepared by resuspending the cells in a suitable liquid or solution such as sterile physiological saline or other physiologically acceptable injectable aqueous liquids. The amounts of the components to be used in such compositions can be routinely determined by those having skill in the art.

The MDC or compositions thereof can be administered by placement of the MDC suspensions onto absorbent or adherent material i.e. a collagen sponge matrix and insertion of the MDC containing material into or onto the site of interest. Alternatively the MDC can be administered by parenteral routes of injection including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular and intrasternal. Other modes of administration include but are not limited to intranasal intrathecal intracutaneous percutaneous enteral and sublingual. In one embodiment of the present invention administration of the MDC can be mediated by endoscopic surgery.

For injectable administration the composition is in sterile solution or suspension or can be resuspended in pharmaceutically and physiologically acceptable aqueous or oleaginous vehicles which may contain preservatives stabilizers and material for rendering the solution or suspension isotonic with body fluids i.e. blood of the recipient. Non limiting examples of excipients suitable for use include water phosphate buffered saline pH 7.4 0.15 M aqueous sodium chloride solution dextrose glycerol dilute ethanol and the like and mixtures thereof. Illustrative stabilizers are polyethylene glycol proteins saccharides amino acids inorganic acids and organic acids which may be used either on their own or as admixtures. The amounts or quantities as well as the routes of administration used are determined on an individual basis and correspond to the amounts used in similar types of applications or indications known to those of skill in the art.

To optimize transplant success the closest possible immunological match between donor and recipient is desired. If an autologous source is not available donor and recipient Class I and Class II histocompatibility antigens can be analyzed to determine the closest match available. This minimizes or eliminates immune rejection and reduces the need for immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy. If required immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy can be started before during and or after the transplant procedure. For example cyclosporin A or other immunosuppressive drugs can be administered to the transplant recipient. Immunological tolerance may also be induced prior to transplantation by alternative methods known in the art D. J Watt et al. 198455 419 D. Faustman et al. 1991252 1701 .

Consistent with the present invention the MDC can be administered to body tissues including bone epithelial tissue i.e. skin lumen etc. connective tissue i.e. adipose cartilage ligament lymph etc. muscle tissue i.e. skeletal striated or smooth muscle and various organ tissues such as those organs that are associated with the digestive system i.e. mouth tongue esophagus stomach liver pancreas gall bladder intestine anus etc. cardiovascular system i.e. heart veins arteries capillaries etc. respiratory system i.e. lungs trachea etc. reproductive system i.e. vas deferens scrotum testes penis fallopian tubes vagina clitoris uterus breasts ovaries vulva etc. urological system i.e. bladder urethra ureter kidneys etc. and nervous system i.e. brain spinal cord nerves etc. .

The number of cells in an MDC suspension and the mode of administration may vary depending on the site and condition being treated. As non limiting examples in accordance with the present invention about 1 1.5 10MDC are injected for the treatment of an approximately 8 mm diameter region of cryodamage in bladder smooth muscle tissue see Example 6 while about 0.5 1.0 10MDC are administered via a collagen sponge matrix for the treatment of an approximately 5 mm region of skull defect see Example 9 . Consistent with the Examples disclosed herein a skilled practitioner can modulate the amounts and methods of MDC based treatments according to requirements limitations and or optimizations determined for each case.

The MDC and compositions thereof according to the present invention have marked utility as materials for soft tissue augmentation in cosmetic procedures e.g. plastic surgery or anti aging procedures. Specifically such MDC and MDC containing compositions can be used to treat various dermatological conditions in a human or animal subject including but not limited to wounds wrinkles rhytids cutaneous depressions of non traumatic origin stretch marks depressed scars scaring from acne vulgaris and hypoplasia of the lip. More specifically the MDC and compositions of the present invention can be used to treat wrinkles rhytids or cutaneous depressions of the face and especially the region surrounding the eye s . To treat dermatological conditions the MDC are prepared as disclosed herein and then administered e.g. via injection to the skin subcutaneously or intradermally to fill bulk up or repair the defect. The number of MDC introduced is modulated to repair deep cutaneous depressions or defects as well as superficial surface depressions or defects as required. For example about 1 1.5 10MDC are utilized for the augmentation of an approximately 5 mm region of the skin see Example 3 .

In another embodiment the MDC and compositions thereof according to the present invention have further utility as treatments for conditions of the lumen in an animal or mammal subject including humans. Specifically the muscle derived progenitor cells are used for completely or partially blocking enhancing enlarging sealing repairing bulking or filling various biological lumens or voids within the body. Lumens include without limitation blood vessels intestine stomach esophagus urethra vagina Fallopian tubes vas deferens and trachea. Voids may include without limitation various tissue wounds i.e. loss of muscle and soft tissue bulk due to trauma destruction of soft tissue due to penetrating projectiles such as a stab wound or bullet wound loss of soft tissue from disease or tissue death due to surgical removal of the tissue including loss of breast tissue following a mastectomy for breast cancer or loss of muscle tissue following surgery to treat sarcoma etc. lesions fissures diverticulae cysts fistulae aneurysms and other undesirable or unwanted depressions or openings that may exist within the body of an animal or mammal including humans. For the treatment of conditions of the lumen the MDC are prepared as disclosed herein and then administered e.g. via injection or intravenous delivery to the lumenal tissue to fill or repair the void. The number of MDC introduced is modulated to repair large or small voids in a soft tissue environment as required.

The MDC and compositions thereof according to the present invention can also be used for the treatment of a sphincter injury weakness disease or dysfunction in an animal or mammal including humans. In particular the MDC are used to augment tissues of the esophageal anal cardiac pyloric and urinary sphincters. More specifically the present invention provides soft tissue augmentation treatments for gastroesophageal reflux symptoms and urinary and fecal incontinence. For the treatment of sphincter defects the MDC are prepared as described herein and then administered to the sphincter tissue e.g. via injection to provide additional bulk filler or support. The number of MDC introduced is modulated to provide varying amounts of bulking material as required. For example about 1 1.5 10MDC are used to provide augmentation for an approximately 5 mm region of the gastroesophageal junction or an approximately 5 10 mm region of the anal sphincter see Example 4 .

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the MDC and compositions thereof are used for the treatment of muscle conditions in a human or animal subject. In particular the MDC can be used to augment the skeletal or smooth muscles to treat weakness or dysfunction caused by injury disease inactivity or anoxia or surgery induced trauma. More specifically the present invention provides treatments for skeletal muscle weakness or dysfunction such as a sports related injury. The present invention also provides treatments for smooth muscle disease or dysfunction such as heart failure or injury associated with myocardial infarction.

For muscle augmentation or treatment of muscle related conditions the MDC are prepared as described above and are administered e.g. via injection into muscle tissue to provide additional bulk filler or support. As is appreciated by the skilled practitioner the number of MDC introduced is modulated to provide varying amounts of bulking material as needed or required. For example about 1 1.5 10MDC are injected for the augmentation of an approximately 5 mm region of heart tissue see Example 7 .

In addition the MDC and compositions thereof can be used to affect contractility in smooth muscle tissue such as gastrointestinal tissue esophageal tissue and bladder tissue as example. Indeed muscle contractility was seen to be restored in cryodamaged bladder tissue after the introduction of muscle derived progenitor cells i.e. MDC as demonstrated in Example 6. Thus the present invention also embraces the use of MDC of the invention in restoring muscle contraction and or ameliorating or overcoming smooth muscle contractility problems such decreased gastrointestinal motility including the esophagus stomach and intestine smooth muscle. A specific yet nonlimiting example of a condition that the MDC of the invention can improve reduce or correct is gastroparesis i.e. poor motility and emptying of the stomach.

In another aspect of the present invention the MDC of this invention may be genetically engineered to contain a nucleic acid sequence s encoding one or more active biomolecules and to express these biomolecules including proteins polypeptides peptides hormones metabolites drugs enzymes and the like. Such MDC may be histocompatible autologous or nonhistocompatible allogeneic to the recipient including humans. These cells can serve as long term local delivery systems for a variety of treatments for example for the treatment of such diseases and pathologies as cancer transplant rejection and the regeneration of muscle and nerve tissues diabetes liver failure renal failure neural defects and diseases such as Parkinson s disease and to deliver a gene product to a site of tissue augmentation or void filling such as a therapeutic agent as described herein.

Preferred in the present invention are autologous muscle derived progenitor cells which will not be recognized as foreign to the recipient. In this regard the MDC used for cell mediated gene transfer or delivery will desirably be matched vis vis the major histocompatibility locus MHC or HLA in humans . Such MHC or HLA matched cells may be autologous. Alternatively the cells may be from a person having the same or a similar MHC or HLA antigen profile. The patient may also be tolerized to the allogeneic MHC antigens. The present invention also encompasses the use of cells lacking MHC Class I and or II antigens such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 538 722.

The MDC may be genetically engineered by a variety of molecular techniques and methods known to those having skill in the art for example transfection infection or transduction. Transduction as used herein commonly refers to cells that have been genetically engineered to contain a foreign or heterologous gene via the introduction of a viral or non viral vector into the cells. Transfection more commonly refers to cells that have been genetically engineered to contain a foreign gene harbored in a plasmid or non viral vector. MDC can be transfected or transduced by different vectors and thus can serve as gene delivery vehicles to transfer the expressed products into muscle.

Although viral vectors are preferred those having skill in the art will appreciate that the genetic engineering of cells to contain nucleic acid sequences encoding desired proteins or polypeptides cytokines and the like may be carried out by methods known in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 538 722 including fusion transfection lipofection mediated by the use of liposomes electroporation precipitation with DEAE Dextran or calcium phosphate particle bombardment biolistics with nucleic acid coated particles e.g. gold particles microinjection and the like.

Vectors for introducing heterologous i.e. foreign nucleic acid DNA or RNA into muscle cells for the expression of bioactive products are well known in the art. Such vectors possess a promoter sequence preferably a promoter that is cell specific and placed upstream of the sequence to be expressed. The vectors may also contain optionally one or more expressible marker genes for expression as an indication of successful transfection and expression of the nucleic acid sequences contained in the vector.

Illustrative examples of vehicles or vector constructs for transfection or infection of the muscle derived cells of the present invention include replication defective viral vectors DNA virus or RNA virus retrovirus vectors such as adenovirus herpes simplex virus and adeno associated viral vectors. Adeno associated virus vectors are single stranded and allow the efficient delivery of multiple copies of nucleic acid to the cell s nucleus. Preferred are adenovirus vectors. The vectors will normally be substantially free of any prokaryotic DNA and may comprise a number of different functional nucleic acid sequences. Examples of such functional sequences include polynucleotide e.g. DNA or RNA sequences comprising transcriptional and translational initiation and termination regulatory sequences including promoters e.g. strong promoters inducible promoters and the like and enhancers which are active in muscle cells.

Also included as part of the functional sequences is an open reading frame polynucleotide sequence encoding a protein of interest flanking sequences may also be included for site directed integration. In some situations the 5 flanking sequence will allow homologous recombination thus changing the nature of the transcriptional initiation region so as to provide for inducible or noninducible transcription to increase or decrease the level of transcription as an example.

In general the nucleic acid sequence desired to be expressed by the muscle derived progenitor cell is that of a structural gene or a functional fragment segment or portion of the gene that is heterologous to the muscle derived progenitor cell and encodes a desired protein or polypeptide product for example. The encoded and expressed product may be intracellular i.e. retained in the cytoplasm nucleus or an organelle of a cell or may be secreted by the cell. For secretion the natural signal sequence present in the structural gene may be retained or a signal sequence that is not naturally present in the structural gene may be used. When the polypeptide or peptide is a fragment of a protein that is larger a signal sequence may be provided so that upon secretion and processing at the processing site the desired protein will have the natural sequence. Examples of genes of interest for use in accordance with the present invention include genes encoding cell growth factors cell differentiation factors cell signaling factors and programmed cell death factors. Specific examples include but are not limited to genes encoding BMP 2 rhBMP 2 IL 1Ra Factor IX and connexin 43.

As mentioned above a marker may be present for selection of cells containing the vector construct. The marker may be an inducible or non inducible gene and will generally allow for positive selection under induction or without induction respectively. Examples of commonly used marker genes include neomycin dihydrofolate reductase glutamine synthetase and the like.

The vector employed will generally also include an origin of replication and other genes that are necessary for replication in the host cells as routinely employed by those having skill in the art. As an example the replication system comprising the origin of replication and any proteins associated with replication encoded by a particular virus may be included as part of the construct. The replication system must be selected so that the genes encoding products necessary for replication do not ultimately transform the muscle derived cells. Such replication systems are represented by replication defective adenovirus constructed as described for example by G. Acsadi et al. 19943 579 584 and by Epstein Barr virus. Examples of replication defective vectors particularly retroviral vectors that are replication defective are BAG described by Price et al. 198784 156 and Sanes et al. 19865 3133. It will be understood that the final gene construct may contain one or more genes of interest for example a gene encoding a bioactive metabolic molecule. In addition cDNA synthetically produced DNA or chromosomal DNA may be employed utilizing methods and protocols known and practiced by those having skill in the art.

If desired infectious replication defective viral vectors may be used to genetically engineer the cells prior to in vivo injection of the cells. In this regard the vectors may be introduced into retroviral producer cells for amphotrophic packaging. The natural expansion of muscle derived progenitor cells into adjacent regions obviates a large number of injections into or at the site s of interest.

In another aspect the present invention provides ex vivo gene delivery to cells and tissues of a recipient mammalian host including humans through the use of MDC e.g. early progenitor muscle cells that have been virally transduced using an adenoviral vector engineered to contain a heterologous gene encoding a desired gene product. Such an ex vivo approach provides the advantage of efficient viral gene transfer which is superior to direct gene transfer approaches. The ex vivo procedure involves the use of the muscle derived progenitor cells from isolated cells of muscle tissue. The muscle biopsy that will serve as the source of muscle derived progenitor cells can be obtained from an injury site or from another area that may be more easily obtainable from the clinical surgeon.

It will be appreciated that in accordance with the present invention clonal isolates can be derived from the population of muscle derived progenitor cells i.e. PP6 cells using various procedures known in the art for example limiting dilution plating in tissue culture medium. Clonal isolates comprise genetically identical cells that originate from a single solitary cell. In addition clonal isolates can be derived using FACS analysis as described above followed by limiting dilution to achieve a single cell per well to establish a clonally isolated cell line. An example of a clonal isolate derived from the PP6 cell population is mc13 which is described in Example 9. Preferably MDC clonal isolates are utilized in the present methods as well as for genetic engineering for the expression of one or more bioactive molecules or in gene replacement therapies.

The MDC are first infected with engineered viral vectors containing at least one heterologous gene encoding a desired gene product suspended in a physiologically acceptable carrier or excipient such as saline or phosphate buffered saline and then administered to an appropriate site in the host. Consistent with the present invention the MDC can be administered to body tissues including bone epithelial tissue connective tissue muscle tissue and various organ tissues such as those organs that are associated with the digestive system cardiovascular system respiratory system reproductive system urological system and nervous system as described above. The desired gene product is expressed by the injected cells which thus introduce the gene product into the host. The introduced and expressed gene products can thereby be utilized to treat repair or ameliorate the injury dysfunction or disease due to their being expressed over long time periods by the MDC of the invention having long term survival in the host.

In animal model studies of myoblast mediated gene therapy implantation of 10myoblasts per 100 mg muscle was required for partial correction of muscle enzyme defects see J. E. Morgan et al. 198886 137 T. A. Partridge et al. 1989337 176 . Extrapolating from this data approximately 10MDC suspended in a physiologically compatible medium can be implanted into muscle tissue for gene therapy for a 70 kg human. This number of MDC of the invention can be produced from a single 100 mg skeletal muscle biopsy from a human source see below . For the treatment of a specific injury site an injection of genetically engineered MDC into a given tissue or site of injury comprises a therapeutically effective amount of cells in solution or suspension preferably about 10to 10cells per cmof tissue to be treated in a physiologically acceptable medium.

MDC were prepared as described U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 to Chancellor et al. . Muscle explants were obtained from the hind limbs of a number of sources namely from 3 week old mdx dystrophic mice C57BL 10ScSn mdx mdx Jackson Laboratories 4 6 week old normal female SD Sprague Dawley rats or SCID severe combined immune deficiency mice. The muscle tissue from each of the animal sources was dissected to remove any bones and minced into a slurry. The slurry was then digested by 1 hour serial incubations with 0.2 type Xl collagenase dispase grade II 240 unit and 0.1 trypsin at 37 C. The resulting cell suspension was passed through 18 20 and 22 gauge needles and centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 5 minutes. Subsequently cells were suspended in growth medium DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum 10 horse serum 0.5 chick embryo extract and 2 penicillin streptomycin . Cells were then preplated in collagen coated flasks U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 to Chancellor et al. . After approximately 1 hour the supernatant was removed from the flask and re plated into a fresh collagen coated flask. The cells which adhered rapidly within this 1 hour incubation were mostly fibroblasts Z. Qu et al. supra U.S. Pat. No. 6 866 842 to Chancellor et al. . The supernatant was removed and re plated after 30 40 of the cells had adhered to each flask. After approximately 5 6 serial platings the culture was enriched with small round cells designated as PP6 cells which were isolated from the starting cell population and used in further studies. The adherent cells isolated in the early platings were pooled together and designated as PP1 4 cells.

The mdx PP1 4 mdx PP6 normal PP6 and fibroblast cell populations were examined by immunohistochemical analysis for the expression of cell markers. The results of this analysis are shown in Table 1.

It is noted that both mdx and normal mice showed identical distribution of all of the cell markers tested in this assay. Thus the presence of the mdx mutation does not affect the cell marker expression of the isolated PP6 muscle cell derived population.

MDC were grown in proliferation medium containing DMEM Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium with 10 FBS fetal bovine serum 10 HS horse serum 0.5 chick embryo extract and 1 penicillin streptomycin or fusion medium containing DMEM supplemented with 2 fetal bovine serum and 1 antibiotic solution. All media supplies were purchased through Gibco Laboratories Grand Island N.Y. .

The MFG NB N. Ferry et al. 199188 8377 81 retroviral vector was used for the MDC experiments. This vector contains a modified LacZ gene NLS LacZ that includes a nuclear localization sequence cloned from the simian virus SV40 large T antigen transcribed from the long terminal repeat LTR . The retroviral stock was grown and prepared as previously described J. C. van Deutekom et al. 19988 135 48 . The retrovirus was titered to 1 10 1 10cfu ml.

An adenovirus vector was also used. This vector contained the LacZ gene under the control of the human cytomegalovirus HuCMV promoter J. Huard et al. 19945 949 58 . The E1 E3 deleted recombinant adenovirus was obtained through Dr. I. Kovesdi Gene Vec Inc. Rockville Md. .

For viral transduction MDC were plated at a density of 1 1.5 10in T 75 flasks. PP6 MDC were washed in HBSS Hank s Balanced Salt Solution and incubated with either retrovirus 1 10 1 10cfu ml or adenovirus 1 10cfu ml suspensions in 5 ml of DMEM containing 8 g ml Polybrene Abbott Laboratories Chicago Ill. for 4 h at 37 C. Virally transduced MDC were grown in 10 ml of proliferation medium for 24 h at 37 C. MDC were then rinsed with HBSS and enzymatically digested with 0.25 trypsin for 1 minute. The treated virally transduced MDC were centrifuged for 5 minutes at 3 500 rpm and the pellet was resuspended in 20 l of HBSS.

SD rats were prepared for surgery by anesthetizing with halothane using standard methods and washing the surgical site with Betadine solution. The skin of the lower abdomen was injected with either 10 microliters l of a MDC suspension in HBSS approximately 1 1.5 10cells 10 l of commercially available bovine collagen Contigen C. R. Bard Covington Ga. or 10 l of sterile saline using a Hamilton microsyringe. At 5 days 2 weeks and 4 weeks post injection the area surrounding each injection site was excised prepared for histochemical analysis examined microscopically and photographed. Histochemical analysis included hematoxylin eosin or trichrome staining.

The results demonstrate that MDC were viable for up to at least 4 weeks following injection into skin tissue with no evidence of inflammation of the tissue at the injection site . In contrast collagen was not visible at 2 weeks following injection into skin tissue . Thus MDC compositions can be used as skin augmentation materials for use for example in cosmetic and aesthetic applications or surgery. This is an unexpected finding since it was previously believed that transplanted muscle cells needed surrounding host muscle fibers with which to attach in order to survive. The survival of the MDC of the present invention following injection into non muscle tissue is further demonstrated in Examples 8 and 9.

SD rats were prepared for surgery as described above. A midline abdomen incision was made to expose the gastroesophageal junction and anal sphincter. The soft tissue was injected with 10 l of a suspension of muscle derived progenitor cells of in HBSS 1 1.5 10cells using a Hamilton microsyringe. At day 3 post injection the area surrounding each injection site was excised prepared for histochemical analysis stained for galactosidase to determine the location and viability of the cells carrying the LacZ marker examined microscopically and photographed. Results of these experiments demonstrate that MDC compositions can be used as esophageal and anal sphincter bulking materials for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux or fecal incontinence symptoms or conditions.

SD rats were prepared for surgery as described above. A midline abdomen incision was made to expose the ureteral bladder vesico ureteral junction. The tissue was injected with 10 l of MDC suspension in HBSS 1 1.5 10cells using a Hamilton microsyringe. At 3 days post injection the area surrounding each injection site was excised prepared for histological analysis stained for galactosidase to determine the location and viability of the cells carrying the LacZ marker examined microscopically and photographed. These results demonstrate that MDC based compositions can be used as utereral bladder augmentation materials for the treatment of vesico ureteral reflux symptoms or conditions.

SD rats were prepared for surgery as described above. A low midline incision was made to expose the bladder and urethra. The bladder was then filled with 1 ml saline. Cryodamage was performed with an 8 mm diameter aluminum rod chilled on dry ice. The chilled probe was placed against one side of the bladder wall for 15 or 30 seconds referred to as mild or severe damage respectively . Immediately following cryoinjury one severe damage group was injected with muscle derived cells of the invention 1 1.5 10of cells in 15 l HBSS while a control severe damage group was injected with HBSS 15 l n 3 per group . One week following cryoinjury the other mild and severe damage groups were injected with an MDC suspension in 50 l HBSS 2 3 10cells while control mild and severe damage groups were injected with 50 l HBSS n 4 per group . For each group injections were made into the center of the injured region using a 30 gauge needle and a Hamilton microsyringe.

To prepare samples for immunohistochemical analysis tissues or cell samples were fixed in cold acetone at 20 C. for 2 minutes and blocked with 5 HS for 1 hour. The samples were incubated overnight at room temperature in a humidity chamber with mouse monoclonal anti smooth muscle actin primary antibodies Cat. F 3777 Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis Mo. 1 400 dilution in PBS pH 7.4 . The samples were then washed 3 times with PBS and incubated with anti mouse IgG secondary antibodies conjugated with the Cy3 fluorochrome Sigma Chemical Co. 1 200 dilution in PBS pH 7.4 .

Tissues or cell samples were fixed in cold acetone at 20 C. for 2 minutes and blocked with 5 HS for 1 hour. The samples were then incubated overnight at room temperature in a humidity chamber with mouse monoclonal anti skeletal myosin fast primary antibodies Cat. M 4276 Sigma Chemical Co. 1 400 dilution in PBS pH 7.4 . The samples were then washed 3 times with PBS and incubated with Cy3 conjugated anti mouse IgG secondary antibodies Sigma Chemical Co. 1 200 dilution in PBS pH 7.4 .

Muscle derived progenitor cells as prepared in Example 1 were plated in 35 mm collagen coated dishes in proliferation medium. After 24 hours the proliferation medium was replaced with fusion medium. The cells were maintained in fusion medium with daily medium changes until the MDC differentiated into myotubes.

Two weeks after the MDC injection the animals were euthanized and used to prepare bladder strips. Two strips were prepared from each bladder and both strips were cut to extend along the circumference of the bladder. The bladder strips were mounted in a tissue bath and subjected to neural contractions 20 Hz 10 and 80 shocks which were recorded and analyzed as described below.

SD rats were euthanized and samples of the tissue surrounding the injection site were removed. The samples were flash frozen using 2 methylbutane pre cooled in liquid nitrogen. Histochemical analysis of the samples included hematoxylin and eosin staining. The samples were stained examined microscopically and photographed. Each cryostat section measured 10 m in thickness.

The animal was euthanized and the bladder was quickly removed. Two strips covering the circumference of the bladder wall were obtained from each bladder. The strips were mounted in 5 ml organ baths containing Kreb s solution 113 mmol l NaCl 4.7 mmol l KCl 1.25 mmol l CaCl 1.2 mmol l MgSO 25 mmol l NaHCO 1.2 mmol l KHPO and 11.5 mmol l glucose aerated with 95 Oand 5 CO. The initial tension was set to 10 mN and isometric contractions were measured with strain gauge transducers coupled with a TBM4 strain gauge amplifier World Precision Instruments . Contraction measurements were compiled using a data acquisition program Windaq DATAQ Instruments Inc. Akron Ohio . The sampling rate per channel was set to 100 Hz. The amplitude of the contractions was computed using a calculation program WindaqEx DATAQ Instruments Inc. . Following a 20 minutes equilibration period electrical field stimuli were applied through two platinum wire electrodes separated by 4 cm at the top and the bottom of the organ bath. The temperature was maintained at 37 C. throughout the experiment.

The bladder strips were stimulated with square wave pulses of 0.25 msec duration with maximal voltage 100 V and a frequency response curve constructed using 10 or 80 shocks at 1 2 5 10 20 or 40 Hz. Following electrostimulation 5 10 or 20 M carbachol was added to the bladder strips to induce contractions. In parallel experiments 1 M atropine was added electrostimulation was applied as above and 50 M methylene ATP was added to induce contractions.

Acetylcholine Ach staining was used to assess the reinnervation of MDC in smooth muscle. Ach is a stain for the neuromuscular junction that indicates the presence of nerve endings. Following MDC injection tissue was excised at day 3 15 30 or after 6 months stained for Ach observed by microscopy and photographed.

Values are reported as means standard deviations. A P value of less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Student s test was used.

Muscle derived progenitor cells as prepared in Example 1 were evaluated for cellular differentiation. Alpha SM actin is the earliest known marker for the smooth muscle cell phenotype K. M. McHugh 1995204 278 90 and the main marker of the myofibroblastic phenotype I. Darby et al. 199063 21 9 . During muscle cell differentiation expression of SM actin decreases while fast MyHC expression increases. Histochemical analysis of MDC treated bladder tissues utilizing SM actin and fast MyHC markers demonstrates the differentiation of MDC following injection into site of cryoinjury. At day 5 following injection into cryodamaged bladder tissue several MDC at least 20 show SM actin staining indicating that the cells are still undifferentiated. After 6 months following injection however virtually all MDC have differentiated into myotubes or myofibers as shown by an decrease in SM actin staining with a concomitant increase in fast MyHC staining .

Because acetylcholine Ach is present at the neuromuscular junction it can serve as an indicator of muscle innervation. Histochemical analysis of MDC treated bladder tissues utilizing the Ach marker demonstrates the reinnervation of the MDC following injection into sites of cryodamage. At day 3 following injection into cryodamaged bladder tissue the injected MDC show minimal innervation as indicated by relatively low levels of Ach staining . At day 15 post injection increased levels of innervation are observed as indicated by increased levels of Ach staining . At day 30 post injection still more Ach staining is observed indicative of further increases in innervation. At 6 months following injection extensive innervation is observed as indicated by substantial Ach staining throughout the MDC injected area viewed at low magnification . These results indicate that the pelvic nerve is growing into the MDC injected area of the bladder and suggest that the MDC can improve the contractility and function of the injected tissue.

To determine whether injected MDC improved the function of the treated bladder tissues several contractility studies were completed see above . Table 2 presents the data showing the contractile parameters of bladder muscle following cryoinjury with or without MDC injections.

The severe damage group injected with MDC immediately following cryoinjury Group 1 showed similar contractility as the control sham group compare contractility levels shown in sham and MDC rows in Group 1 Table 2 . However the severe damage group injected with MDC one week following the cryodamage Group 3 showed increased contraction amplitude 145 and 161 of the control bladder at 20 Hz 10 shocks and 20 Hz 80 shocks respectively compared with the control group compare contractile amplitude levels shown in sham and MDC rows indicated with asterisks in Table 2 . Similarly the severe damage group injected with MDC one week following the cryodamage Group 3 showed increased contraction velocity 119 and 121 of that of the control strip at 20 Hz 10 shocks and 20 Hz 80 shocks respectively compared with the control group compare contractile velocity values in sham and MDC rows in Group 3 Table 2 . The mild damage group injected with MDC one week following the cryodamage Group 2 also showed increased contraction amplitude and velocity compared to the control group compare contractility levels shown in sham and MDC rows in Group 2 Table 2 . The results of these studies show that MDC injections can restore contractility to cryodamaged bladder muscle tissue and indicate that MDC based compositions can be utilized for the treatment of urinary incontinence.

SD rats were prepared for surgery as described above. A thoracic incision was made to expose the heart. The ventricular wall was injected with 10 l of MDC suspension in HBSS 1 1.5 10cells using a Hamilton microsyringe. At day 3 the area surrounding each injection site was excised prepared for histochemical analysis stained for galactosidase to determine the location and viability of the cells carrying the LacZ marker examined microscopically and photographed. The results of these experiments demonstrate that MDC compositions can be used as myocardial soft tissue augmentation materials for the treatment of injury or weakness secondary to heart failure or myocardial infarction.

SD rats were prepared for surgery as described above. A midline abdomen incision was made to expose the liver and spleen. Both sites were injected with 10 l of MDC suspension in HBSS 1 1.5 10cells using a Hamilton microsyringe. At the same time a midline back incision and a partial laminectomy was made to expose the spinal cord. Spinal cord tissues at level T10 were then injected with the MDC suspension in HBSS as done for the liver and spleen tissues. At day 4 the area surrounding each injection site was excised prepared histochemical analysis stained for galactosidase to determine the location and viability of the cells carrying the LacZ marker examined microscopically and photographed. These experiments show that MDC compositions can be used as liver spleen and spinal cord soft tissue augmentation materials A B and A B to treat various liver spleen and spinal cord injuries diseases or dysfunctions.

Clonal isolation of PP6 muscle derived progenitor cells To isolate clones from the PP6 cell population PP6 cells were transfected with a plasmid containing the LacZ mini dystrophin and neomycin resistance genes. Briefly a Smal SalI fragment containing the neomycin resistance gene from pPGK NEO was inserted into the Smal SalI site in plEPlacZ plasmid containing the LacZ gene creating the pNEOlacZ plasmid. The Xhol SalI fragment from DysM3 which contains the short version of the dystrophin gene K. Yuasa et al. 1998425 329 336 gift from Dr. Takeda Japan was inserted into SalI site in the pNEOlacZ to generate a plasmid which contains the mini dystrophin LacZ and neomycin resistance genes. The plasmid was linearized by SalI digestion prior to transfection.

PP6 cells were transfected with 10 g of the linear plasmid containing mini dystrophin LacZ and neomycin resistance gene using the Lipofectamine Reagent Gibco BRL according to the manufacturer s instructions. At 72 hours after transfection cells were selected with 3000 g ml of G418 Gibco BRL for 10 days until discrete colonies appeared. Colonies were then isolated and expanded to obtain a large quantity of the transfected cells and then tested for expression of LacZ. One of these PP6 derived clones mc13 was used for further study.

PP6 mc13 and mouse fibroblast cells were plated in a 6 well culture dish and fixed with cold methanol for 1 minute. Cells were then washed with phosphate buffered saline PBS and blocked with 5 horse serum at room temperature for 1 hour. The primary antibodies were diluted in PBS as follows anti desmin 1 100 Sigma biotinylated anti mouse CD34 1 200 Pharmingen rabbit anti mouse Bcl 2 1 500 Pharmingen rabbit anti mouse M cadherin 1 50 gift from Dr. A. Wernig mouse anti mouse MyoD 1 100 Pharmingen mouse anti rat myogenin 1 100 Pharmingen rabbit anti mouse Flk 1 1 50 Research Diagnostics and biotinylated Sca 1 1 100 Pharmingen . Cells were incubated with the primary antibodies at room temperature overnight. Cells were then washed and incubated with the appropriate biotinylated secondary antibodies for 1 hour at room temperature. Subsequently the cells were rinsed with PBS then incubated at room temperature with 1 300 streptavidin conjugated with Cy3 fluorochrome for 1 hour. Cells were then analyzed by fluorescence microscopy. For each marker the percentage of stained cells was calculated for 10 randomly chosen fields of cells.

Cryosections of muscle samples from a four week old normal mouse C 57 BL 6J Jackson Laboratories were fixed with cold acetone for 2 minutes and pre incubated in 5 horse serum diluted in PBS for 1 hour. For CD34 Bcl 2 and collagen type IV the following primary antibodies were used biotin anti mouse CD34 1 200 in PBS Pharmingen rabbit anti mouse Bcl 2 1 1000 Pharmingen and rabbit anti mouse collagen type IV 1 100 in PBS Chemicon . For dystrophin staining sheep anti human DY10 antibody 1 250 dilution in PBS was used as the primary antibody and the signal was amplified using anti sheep biotin 1 250 dilution in PBS and streptavidin FITC 1 250 dilution in PBS .

Cells were plated in triplicate at a density of 1 2 10cells per well in 12 well collagen coated flasks. The cells were stimulated by the addition of 200 ng ml recombinant human BMP 2 rhBMP 2 to the growth medium. The growth medium was changed on days 1 3 and 5 following the initial plating. A control group of cells was grown in parallel without added rhBMP 2. After 6 days with or without rhBMP 2 stimulation cells were counted using a microcytometer and analyzed for osteocalcin and alkaline phosphatase expression. For osteocalcin staining cells were incubated with goat anti mouse osteocalcin antibodies 1 100 in PBS Chemicon followed by incubation with anti goat antibodies conjugated with the Cy3 fluorochrome. To measure alkaline phosphatase activity cell lysates were prepared and analyzed using a commercially available kit that utilizes color change in the reagent due to the hydrolysis of inorganic phosphate from p nitrophenyl phosphate Sigma . The resulting color change was measured on a spectrophotometer and the data were expressed as international units ALP activity per liter normalized to 10cells. Statistical significance was analyzed using student s t test p

The mc13 cells 5 10cells were injected intramuscularly in the hind limb muscle of mdx mice. The animals were sacrificed at 15 days post injection and the injected muscle tissue was frozen cryostat sectioned and assayed for dystrophin see above and LacZ expression. To test for LacZ expression the muscle sections were fixed with 1 glutaraldehyde and then were incubated with X gal substrate 0.4 mg ml 5 bromochloro 3 indolyl D galactoside Boehringer Mannheim 1 mM MgCl 5 mM KFe CN and 5 mM KFe CN in phosphate buffered saline for 1 3 hours. Sections were counter stained with eosin prior to analysis. In parallel experiments mc13 cells 5 10cells were injected intravenously in the tail vein of mdx mice. The animals were sacrificed at 7 days post injection and hind limbs were isolated and assayed for the presence of dystrophin and galactosidase as described.

To construct the adenovirus BMP 2 plasmid adBMP 2 the rhBMP 2 coding sequence was excised from the BMP 2 125 plasmid Genetics Institute Cambridge Mass. and subcloned into a replication defective E1 and E3 gene deleted adenoviral vector containing the HuCMV promoter. Briefly the BMP 2 125 plasmid was digested with SalI resulting in a 1237 base pair fragment containing the rhBMP 2 cDNA. The rhBMP 2 CDNA was then inserted into the SalI site of the pAd.lox plasmid which placed the gene under the control of the HuCMV promoter. Recombinant adenovirus was obtained by co transfection of pAd.lox with psi 5 viral DNA into CRE 8 cells. The resulting adBMP 2 plasmid was stored at 80 C. until further use.

Mc13 cells were trypsinized and counted using a microcytometer prior to infection. Cells were washed several times using HBSS GibcoBRL . Adenovirus particles equivalent to 50 multiplicity of infection units were premixed into HBSS then layered onto the cells. Cells were incubation at 37 C. for 4 hours and then incubated with an equal volume of growth medium. Injections of 0.5 1.0 10cells were performed using a 30 gauge needle on a gas tight syringe into exposed triceps surae of SCID mice Jackson Laboratories . At 14 15 days the animals were anesthetized with methoxyflurane and sacrificed by cervical dislocation. The hind limbs were analyzed by radiography. Subsequently the triceps surae were isolated and flash frozen in 2 methylbutane buffered in phosphate buffered saline and pre cooled in liquid nitrogen. The frozen samples were cut into 5 10 m sections using a cryostat Microm HM 505 E Fisher Scientific and stored at 20 C. for further analysis.

Total RNA was isolated using TRIzol reagent Life Technologies . Reverse transcription was carried out using SuperScript Preamplification System for First Strand cDNA Synthesis Life Technologies according to the instructions of the manufacturer. Briefly 100 ng random hexamers were annealed to 1 g total RNA at 70 C. for 10 minutes and then chilled on ice. Reverse transcription was carried out with 2 l 10 PCR buffer 2 l 25 mM MgCl 1 l 10 mM dNTP mix 2 l 0.1 M DTT and 200 U superscript II reverse transcriptase. The reaction mixture was incubated for 50 minutes at 42 C.

Polymerase chain reaction PCR amplification of the targets was performed in 50 l reaction mixture containing 2 l of reverse transcriptase reaction product 100 l 5 U Taq DNA polymerase Life Technologies and 1.5 mM MgCl. The CD34 PCR primers were designed using Oligo software and had the following sequences CD34 UP TAA CTT GAC TTC TGC TAC CA SEQ ID NO 1 and CD34 DOWN GTG GTC TTA CTG CTG TCC TG SEQ ID NO 2 . The other primers were designed according to previous studies J. Rohwedel et al. 1995220 92 100 D. D. Cornelison et al. 1997191 270 283 and had the following sequences C MET UP GAA TGT CGT CCT ACA CGG CC SEQ ID NO 3 C MET DOWN CAC TAC ACA GTC AGG ACA CTG C SEQ ID NO 4 MNF UP TAC TTC ATC AAA GTC CCT CGG TC SEQ ID NO 5 MNF DOWN GTA CTC TGG AAC AGA GGC TAA CTT SEQ ID NO 6 BCL 2 UP AGC CCT GTG CCA CCA TGT GTC SEQ ID NO 7 BCL 2 DOWN GGC AGG TTT GTC GAC CTC ACT SEQ ID NO 8 MYOGENIN UP CAA CCA GGA GGA GCG CGA TCT CCG SEQ ID NO 9 MYOGENIN DOWN AGG CGC TGT GGG AGT TGC ATT CAC T SEQ ID NO 10 MYOD UP GCT CTG ATG GCA TGA TGG ATT ACA GCG SEQ ID NO 11 and MYOD DOWN ATG CTG GAC AGG CAG TCG AGG C SEQ ID NO 12 .

The following PCR parameters were used 1 94 C. for 45 seconds 2 50 C. for 60 seconds CD34 or 60 C. for 60 seconds for myogenin and c met and 3 72 C. for 90 seconds for 40 cycles. PCR products were checked by agarose TBE ethidium bromide gels. The sizes of the expected PCR products are 147 bp for CD34 86 bp for myogenin and 370 bp for c met. To exclude the possibility of genomic DNA contamination two control reactions were completed 1 parallel reverse transcription in the absence of reverse transcriptase and 2 amplification of actin using an intron spanning primer set Clonetech .

Three 6 8 week old female SCID mice Jackson Laboratories were used in control and experimental groups. The animals were anesthetized with methoxyflurane and placed prone on the operating table. Using a number 10 blade the scalp was dissected to expose the skull and the periosteum was stripped. An approximately 5 mm full thickness circular skull defect was created using a dental burr with minimal penetration of the dura. A collagen sponge matrix Helistat Colla Tec Inc. was seeded with 0.5 1.0 10MDC either with or without adBMP 2 transduction and placed into the skull defect. The scalp was closed using a 4 0 nylon suture and the animals were allowed food and activity. After 14 days the animals were sacrificed and the skull specimens were observed and then analyzed microscopically. For von Kossa staining skull specimens were fixed in 4 formaldehyde and then soaked in 0.1 M AgNosolution for 15 minutes. The specimens were exposed to light for at least 15 minutes washed with PBS and then stained with hematoxylin and eosin for viewing.

The cryosections were fixed for 10 minutes in 3 1 methanol glacial acetic acid v v and air dried. The sections were then denatured in 70 formamide in 2 SSC 0.3 M NaCl 0.03 M NaCitrate pH 7.0 at 70 C. for 2 minutes. Subsequently the slides were dehydrated with a series of ethanol washes 70 80 and 95 for 2 minutes at each concentration. The Y chromosome specific probe Y. Fan et al. 199619 853 860 was biotinylated using a BioNick kit Gibco BRL according to the manufacturer s instructions. The biotinylated probe was then purified using a G 50 Quick Spin Column Boehringer Mannheim and the purified probe was lyophilized along with 5 ng ml of sonicated herring sperm DNA. Prior to hybridization the probe was re suspended in a solution containing 50 formamide 1 SSC and 10 dextran sulfate. After denaturation at 75 C. for 10 minutes the probe was placed on the denatured sections and allowed to hybridize overnight at 37 C. After hybridization the sections were rinsed with 2 SSC solution pH 7.0 at 72 C. for 5 minutes. The sections were then rinsed in BMS solution 0.1 M NaHCO 0.5 M NaCl 0.5 NP 40 pH 8.0 . The hybridized probe was detected with fluorescein labeled avidin ONCOR Inc . The nuclei were counter stained with 10 ng ml ethidium bromide in Vectashield mounting medium Vector Inc .

The biochemical markers expressed by mc13 PP6 and fibroblast cells were analyzed using RT PCR and immunohistochemistry. Table 3 below shows that mc13 cells expressed Flk 1 a mouse homologue of the human KDR gene which was recently identified as a marker of hematopoietic cells with stem cell like characteristics B. L. Ziegler et al. supra but did not express CD34 or CD45. However other clonal isolates derived from the PP6 MDC of the present invention expressed CD34 as well as other PP6 cell markers. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the procedures described herein can be used to clone out the PP6 muscle derived progenitor cell population and obtain clonal isolates that express cell markers characteristic of the muscle derived progenitor cells. Such clonal isolates can be used in accordance with the methods of the invention. For example the clonal isolates express progenitor cell markers including desmin CD34 and Bcl 2. Preferably the clonal isolates also express the Sca 1 and Flk 1 cell markers but do not express the CD45 or c Kit cell markers.

To identify the location of CD34 and Bcl 2 cells in vivo muscle tissue sections from the triceps surae of normal mice were stained using anti CD34 and anti Bcl 2 antibodies. The CD34 positive cells constituted a small population of muscle derived cells that were also positive for desmin . Co staining the CD34 desmin cells with anti collagen type IV antibody localized them within the basal lamina . As indicated by the arrowheads in small blood vessels were also positive for CD34 and collagen type IV but did not co localize with the nuclear staining. The expression of CD34 by vascular endothelial cells has been shown in previous studies L. Fina et al. supra . The Bcl 2 desmin cells were similarly identified and localized within the basal lamina . The sections were also stained for M cadherin to identify the location of satellite cells . The satellite cells were identified at similar locations as CD34 desmin or Bcl 2 desmin cells arrow . However multiple attempts to co localize CD34 or Bcl 2 with M cadherin were unsuccessful suggesting that M cadherin expressing cells do not co express either Bcl 2 or CD34. This is consistent with PP6 cells expressing high levels of CD34 and Bcl 2 but expressing minimal levels of M cadherin as disclosed herein.

Mc13 cells were assessed for osteogenic differentiation potential by stimulation with rhBMP 2. Cells were plated on 6 well culture dishes and grown to confluency in the presence or absence of 200 ng ml rhBMP 2. Within 3 4 days mc13 cells exposed to rhBMP 2 showed dramatic morphogenic changes compared to cells without rhBMP 2. In the absence of rhBMP 2 mc13 cells began to fuse into multinucleated myotubes . When exposed to 200 ng ml rhBMP 2 however cells remained mononucleated and did not fuse . When cell density reached 90 confluency the untreated culture fused to form multiple myotubes while the treated cells became circular and hypertrophic . Using immunohistochemistry these hypertrophic cells were analyzed for the expression of osteocalcin. Osteocalcin is a matrix protein that is deposited on bone specifically expressed by osteoblasts. In contrast to the untreated group the rhBMP 2 treated hypertrophic cells showed significant expression of osteocalcin thus suggesting that mc13 cells are capable of differentiating into osteoblasts upon exposure to rhBMP 2.

Mc13 cells were then analyzed for expression of desmin following rhBMP 2 stimulation. Newly isolated mc13 cells showed uniform desmin staining . Within 6 days of exposure to rhBMP 2 only 30 40 of mc13 cells showed desmin staining. In the absence of rhBMP 2 stimulation approximately 90 100 of mc13 cells showed desmin staining . This result suggests that stimulation of mc13 cells with rhBMP 2 results in the loss of myogenic potential for these cells.

In addition mc13 cells were analyzed for the expression of alkaline phosphatase following rhBMP 2 stimulation. Alkaline phosphatase has been used as a biochemical marker for osteoblastic differentiation T. Katagiri et al. 1994127 1755 1766 . As shown in alkaline phosphatase expression of mc13 cells was increased more than 600 fold in response to rhBMP 2. PP1 4 cells used as a control did not show increased alkaline phosphatase activity in response to rhBMP 2 . Taken together these data demonstrate that cells of a PP6 clonal isolate e.g. mc13 cells can lose their myogenic markers and differentiate through the osteogenic lineage in response to rhBMP 2 exposure in vitro.

To determine whether mc13 cells were capable of differentiating through the myogenic lineage in vivo the cells were injected into the hind limb muscle tissue of mdx mice. The animals were sacrificed 15 days following injection and their hind limbs were harvested for histological and immunohistochemical analysis. Several myofibers showed LacZ and dystrophin staining in the region surrounding the injection site indicating that mc13 cells can differentiate through the myogenic lineage in vivo and enhance muscle regeneration and restore dystrophin in the dystrophic muscle.

In a parallel experiment mc13 cells were injected intravenously into the tail vein of mdx mice. The animals were sacrificed at 7 days post injection and the hind limb muscles were harvested for histological and immunohistochemical analysis. Several hind limb muscle cells showed LacZ and dystrophin staining see also suggesting that mc13 cells can be target tissue for rescue of dystrophin expression.

To test the pluripotent characteristics of mc13 cells in vivo the cells were transduced with an adenoviral vector encoding rhBMP 2 adBMP 2 . The mc13 cells with adBMP 2 were then injected into hind limbs of SCID mice. The animals were sacrificed at 14 days post injection and the hind limbs were removed for histochemical and immunochemical analysis. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA analysis of mc13 cells transduced with adBMP 2 showed that infected cells were capable of producing rhBMP 2. Radiographic analysis of hind limbs of injected SCID mice revealed robust ectopic bone formation within 14 days of injection . Histological analysis using LacZ staining of the ectopic bone shows that LacZ positive mc13 cells were uniformly located within the mineralized matrix or lacunae a typical location where osteoblasts and osteocytes are found .

To further confirm the role of mc13 in formation of the ectopic bone the muscle sections were also stained for presence of dystrophin. As shown in the ectopic bone contained cells highly positive for dystrophin suggesting that mc13 cells are intimately participating in bone formation. As a control similar experiments were carried out with fibroblasts. Fibroblasts were found to support robust ectopic bone formation but the injected cells were uniformly found outside of the bone and none could be located within the mineralized matrix. This suggests that the fibroblasts are capable of delivering rhBMP 2 to form ectopic bone but are unable to differentiate into osteoblasts. In this case the cells participating in mineralization of the ectopic bone are most likely derived from the host tissue. Thus these results demonstrate that mc13 cells can differentiate into osteoblasts both in vivo and in vitro.

Skull defects approximately 5 mm were created in skeletally mature 6 8 weeks old female SCID mice using a dental burr as described above. Previous experiments have demonstrated that 5 mm skull defects are non healing P. H. Krebsbach et al. 199866 1272 1278 . The skull defect was filled with a collagen sponge matrix seeded with mc13 cells transduced or not transduced with adBMP 2. These mice were sacrificed at 14 days and the healing of the skull defect was analyzed. As shown in the control group treated with mc13 cells without rhBMP 2 showed no evidence of healing of the defect. In contrast the experimental group treated with mc13 cells transduced to express rhBMP 2 showed almost a full closure of the skull defect at 2 weeks . The von Kossa staining which highlights mineralized bone showed robust bone formation in the group treated with mc13 cells transduced to express rhBMP 2 but minimal bone formation was observed in the control group .

The area of new bone in the experimental group was analyzed by fluorescence in situ hybridization FISH with a Y chromosome specific probe to identify transplanted cells. As shown in Y chromosome positive cells were identified within the newly formed bone indicating active participation of transplanted cells in bone formation under the influence of rhBMP 2. The Y chromosome negative cells were also identified within the newly formed skull thus indicating active participation of host derived cells as well. These results demonstrate that mc13 cells can mediate healing of a non healing bone defect upon stimulation with rhBMP 2 and indicate that the MDC of the present invention can be used in the treatment of bone defects injuries or traumas.

All patent applications patents texts and literature references cited in this specification are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety to more fully describe the state of the art to which the present invention pertains.

As various changes can be made in the above methods and compositions without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as described it is intended that all subject matter contained in the above description shown in the accompanying drawings or defined in the appended claims be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

