---

title: Resonant acoustic projector
abstract: Each of a pair of electrically conductive spiral coils is ensconced in a disk-shaped matrix. The two coil-ensconced matrices are joined face-to-face so as to sandwich between them a thin, non-magnetic elastic layer. An electronic device is connected so that each coil and a corresponding capacitor form an LC circuit. Electrification of the two LC circuits results in the departing and returning, in oscillatory fashion, of the two coil-ensconced matrices. This resonant behavior is both electromagnetic and mechanical in nature. The intermittent electromagnetic repelling is related to the LC circuitry and the oppositely polar electrifications of the respective coils. The springy mechanical activity is based on a spring-mass model and involves the elasticity of the intermediate material and the entrainment of ambient fluid. The dual oscillatory modes are merged at the same frequency through tuning of either/both oscillatory mode(s). In many applications, an inventive acoustic projector produces pressure waves underwater.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07443764&OS=07443764&RS=07443764
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07443764
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060705
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This application is related to the copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 482 296 filing date 5 Jul. 2006 incorporated herein by reference entitled Method for Designing a Resonant Acoustic Projector inventors Joseph A. Clark and Jane A. Young.

The present invention relates to acoustic projectors more particularly to acoustic projectors for producing pressure waves in fluidic environments such as may be suitable for underwater sonar applications.

Various types of acoustic projectors have been used for producing pressure waves in fluids including those based on piezoelectric and electromagnetic EM principles. Piezoelectric projectors tend to be fragile due to their ceramic construction and require power conversion electronics which can be heavy bulky and costly to permit high voltage low current powering such as delivered by batteries and some power amplifiers. The so called boomer electromagnetic projectors used in oil and gas exploration can only be used at or just beneath water surfaces and generate sounds that reach water bottoms at much reduced levels due to spreading losses. A conventional boomer EM projector avails itself of the low atmospheric pressure in order to produce a large cavitation bubble that collapses thereby producing a transient underwater pulse the level of which decays in amplitude in accordance with 1 r where r is the distance in meters away from the source.

The present inventors previously disclose in their U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 819 B1 issued 27 May 2003 entitled Low Frequency Acoustic Projector incorporated herein by reference an electromagnetic EM acoustic projector that produces pressure waves in fluids. As their 819 acoustic projector is typically embodied two pancake shaped spiral wound electrically conductive wire coils made e.g. of copper are spaced slightly apart e.g. inch or less parallel to each other. Each spiral wound wire coil is encapsulated in a shell made e.g. of a fiberglass resin . A ring made e.g. of an epoxy encircles the planar junction between the two encapsulated spiral wound wire coils and is flexibly attached to each encapsulated spiral wound wire coil via for instance plural flexible bands made e.g. of a rubber material such as silicon or urethane . Voltage is applied across one end of each spiral wound wire coil so that currents of opposite polarities flow in the two spiral wound wire coils. The resultant magnetic forces cause the two encapsulated spiral wound wire coils to repel each other when current flows in the coils and to come back to each other when current does not flow in the coils in accordance with the periodicity of the electrical excitation. For a sinusoidal electrical excitation of given drive frequency the resultant oscillation vibration is at a frequency that is twice the drive frequency since the magnetic forces are always repulsive regardless of the polarity i.e. in negative sinusoidal cycle versus in positive sinusoidal cycle of the sinusoidal electrical excitation. The flexible bands together with the hydrostatic water pressure maintain proximity of the coils exerting restorative forces when current does not flow in the coils.

The above described EM acoustic projector of U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 819 is quite useful but tends to be limited at greater water depths e.g. at depths below twenty feet. The amount of power required for operation of a 819 acoustic projector will tend to increase in accordance with increasing water depth toward an impractical limit. That is the 819 acoustic projector s effectiveness will be delimited by a prohibitive water depth at or below which the 819 acoustic projector s electromagnetic resonance will become insufficient to overcome the increased hydrostatic pressure concomitant with the increased water depth.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide an acoustic projector that is capable of projecting sounds at desired acoustic levels e.g. intensities at practically all water depths both shallow and deep.

In accordance with typical embodiments of the present invention an underwater acoustic projection device comprises two coil containing disks and an elastic layer therebetween. Each coil containing disk includes a spiral wound electrical coil and a disk shaped shell encapsulating the spiral wound electrical coil. The elastic layer adjoins the disk shaped shells. Capacitance means is electrically connected to the spiral wound electrical coils so that the capacitance means and the spiral wound electrical coils are constituents of inductance capacitance LC circuitry. The spiral wound electrical coils constitute inductance means in the inductance capacitance circuitry. While the underwater acoustic projection device is submerged in water the inductance capacitance circuitry is electrically powered so that the inductance capacitance circuitry effects electromagnetic resonance of the underwater acoustic projection device and so that a spring mass system effects mechanical resonance of the underwater acoustic projection device. The underwater acoustic projection device and a portion of the water are constituents of the spring mass system. The elastic layer constitutes the spring in the spring mass system. The water portion is in the vicinity of and entrained by the resonant underwater acoustic projection device so as constitute nearly all of the mass in the spring mass system. The underwater acoustic projection device produces pressure waves in the water in association with the electromagnetic resonance and the mechanical resonance. As the present invention is frequently practiced the inductance capacitance circuitry and the spring mass system are mutually tuned so that during the electrical powering of the inductance capacitance circuitry the electromagnetic resonance and the mechanical resonance occur at the same frequency. The mutual tuning can include for instance adjustment of one or more of the following parameters i the electrical powering e.g. amount of the inductance capacitance circuitry ii the material composition and or shape and or dimensions e.g. size of one or both disk shaped shells iii the material composition and or shape and or dimensions e.g. size of the elastic layer.

The acoustic projector in accordance with the present invention bears some similarity to the aforementioned acoustic projector of U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 819. Both acoustic projectors feature a coreless electromagnetic design and produce coherent low frequency high source level underwater acoustic waves. However a significant distinction between the 819 acoustic projector and the present invention s acoustic projector is that the former effects an electromagnetic resonance system only whereas the latter effects typically in tandem both an electromagnetic resonance system and a mechanical resonance system. The dual resonance of the inventive acoustic projector as distinguished from the sole resonance of the 819 acoustic projector significantly increases the underwater depth range in which efficient operation is feasible.

As typically embodied the present invention s acoustic projector features a thin non magnetic elastic layer which is made of a natural elastomeric material e.g. natural rubber or a synthetic elastomeric material e.g. polyurethane polyurea or other polymeric material . The elastic layer can consist of a single piece or of plural discrete pieces as inventive practice admits of multifarious shapes and patterns described by the elastic layer. Accordingly the term layer as used herein to describe the elastic material in the context of inventive practice broadly refers to any form of elastic material continuous or discontinuous that describes or generally or approximately describes a geometric form characterized by uniform thickness. The elastic layer is closely situated between two encapsulated spiral wound electrically conductive coils that are similar to those disclosed by the present inventors in their U.S. patent 819.

The present invention uniquely combines mechanical resonance with electromagnetic resonance. The present invention s electromagnetic resonance is similar to that which is taught by the present inventors in their U.S. patent 819. LC inductance capacitance circuitry is formed by the connection of the coils which act as inductors with the amplifier which includes one or more capacitors . The present invention s mechanical resonance is associated with the spring mass system that is formed by the combination including the two coil containing disks the elastic layer and the entrained water mass. The elastic layer situated between the two coil containing disks acts in combination with the hydrostatic water pressure to exert restorative forces so as maintain proximity of the coils. Furthermore of greater significance as pertains to the mechanical resonance aspect of the present invention the elastic layer acts as the spring in what effectively represents a spring mass system. According to typical underwater applications of the present invention the mass in the spring mass system is largely constituted or practically entirely constituted by the entrained water which is the portion of the surrounding water that falls into synchronous oscillation with the elastic layer and the coil containing disks.

The present invention features inter alia the unique combination of electromagnetic resonance via the LC circuitry with mechanical resonance via the spring mass system . Typical inventive embodiments seek to optimize this combination by coordinating the respective oscillatory frequencies of the two kinds of resonance viz. electromagnetic resonance and mechanical resonance the electromagnetic resonance and mechanical resonance thus in a sense join forces. An important inventive objective is thus for the electromagnetic resonant frequency and the mechanical resonant frequency to equate with each other. According to typical inventive practice the LC circuitry which is a form of frequency selective electric circuitry and the elastic layer which is the spring in the spring mass system are tuned with respect to each other so that the electromagnetic resonant frequency of the electrified coils which is twice the frequency applied via the LC circuitry if electrification is sinusoidal matches the mechanical resonant frequency natural frequency of the spring mass system. The dual oscillatory modes are merged at the same frequency through tuning of either or both of the two oscillatory modes. According to inventive synchronization of electromagnetic and mechanical resonances the electromagnetic resonance involves oscillation back and forth between capacitance storage of electrical energy and inductance storage of magnetic energy in parallel fashion the mechanical resonance involves oscillation back and forth between potential energy and kinetic energy.

The present invention is typically embodied as an acoustic projector that produces pressure waves underwater. The present invention s acoustic projector as typically embodied produces an underwater acoustic wave characterized by high efficiency coherency low frequency narrow bandwidth and high acoustic source level. Inventive practice can achieve enhanced electro acoustic efficiencies at high powers and at a wide range of depths of operation. Electrical current produced by a signal amplifier which typically is connected to and receives its power from a direct current power source passes through each coil in opposing directions creating opposing magnetic fields. Based on the Lenz Effect mechanical forces are generated directly by the opposing electrical currents in the two coils and without the use of any magnetic core material. The inductance of the coil is coupled with capacitance at least one capacitor such as included in a power amplifier to produce a tunable LC electrical circuit. Elastic spring like material is used between the coils to produce a tunable spring mass system in which mechanical resonance is associated with the mass of the entrained water and the spring constant of the elastic material. Either or both of the mechanical circuit spring mass system and the electrical circuit LC circuit are tuned. Both the mechanical and electrical circuits are driven with a high current low voltage low resistance power source such as a battery or a current mode amplifier e.g. one that incorporates fast solid state switching technology . Inventive practice will frequently benefit from low electrical circuit resistance a consideration that suggests the inventive implementation of switching type power amplifiers that operate optimally at low driving voltages and high currents. For instance based on numerical studies design specifications have been identified by the present inventors for an inventive acoustic projector that is characterized by ultra low resistance and that generates an 800 Hz toneburst at a 208 dB source level with 77 efficiency when used in association with a low voltage high current switching amplifier.

Through its mechanical resonance build up process the present invention s acoustic projector is typically capable of utilizing a small amount of input power to produce high acoustic source levels. The resonance starts out slowly because the input power is low but gradually builds up to its optimal frequency i.e. where the electromagnetic resonant frequency and the mechanical resonant frequency are one and the same frequency. Generally speaking the natural frequency of an elastic object or system is the frequency at which such object or system once energized will freely vibrate. Part of this build up process involves an increase in an amount of water that is entrained by the inventive acoustic projector while the inventive acoustic projector continues to resonate. During an initial period the resonance is entirely or primarily electromechanical in nature gradually more and more water is entrained by the overall resonance at a given resonant frequency which equals the mechanical resonant frequency of the spring mass system as the overall resonance increasingly becomes characterized by mechanical resonant behavior in addition to the electromagnetic resonant behavior with which it is initiated at the same resonant frequency. When the present invention s spring mass system is completely energized it completely finds its mechanically resonant frequency natural frequency . The present invention s mechanical resonance thereby joins with the present invention s electromagnetic resonance to strengthen the resonance vibration or oscillation significantly beyond that which is generated by the present inventors 819 acoustic projector which relies solely on electromagnetic resonance. The finer the tuning of the mechanical resonance and the electromagnetic resonance with respect to each other the greater the efficiency of this electrical to mechanical power transfer.

The present invention s acoustic projector uses elastic material to create a resonant spring mass behavior whereas the present inventors 819 acoustic projector does not therefore in contrast to typical embodiments of the present inventors 819 acoustic projector typical embodiments of the inventive acoustic projector work well at greater depths e.g. at depths below twenty feet. The present invention s water depth versatility also stands in contrast to conventional boomer piezoelectric acoustic projectors which are positioned at or just below the water surface. In some ocean environments only a small amount of energy from a pulse generated at near the surface will reach the bottom due to the sound velocity profile SVP bending of the sound up towards the surface. Since the present invention can be used in deep water even at the water bottom the noise level entering the bottom layer of the body of water is much higher. In addition there is less distortion in the receiving signal since the sound source is closer to the bottom. Moreover the present invention typically uses less power and operates at a lower source level the latter being environmentally advantageous for marine mammals e.g. whales dolphins porpoises seals walruses sea lions manatees dugongs polar bears that are sensitive to loud underwater noise. Furthermore the present invention typically provides a coherent ultra repeatable signal transient or steady state which can be beneficial for signal processing.

Conventional low frequency underwater acoustic projectors operate in the 30 Hz 1 kHz range. The present invention s acoustic projector can be embodied as suitable for underwater use inside and or outside of this frequency range. As compared with conventional low frequency acoustic projectors the present invention s acoustic projector can be embodied as a very small device that is capable of producing high source levels of low frequency sound. In order to be used with a battery direct current power source a conventional piezoelectric projector requires complicated electrical circuitry and heavy transformers to transform the power to a high voltage and low current some power is lost in this transformation and space is needed for the electronics. The present invention obviates power conversion electronics thus simplifying design and reducing weight and space. The present invention s acoustic projector can be manufactured inexpensively and can be utilized as a battery operated throw away device. One inventive acoustic projector can be used or plural e.g. multiple inventive acoustic projectors can be used in combination with one or more other inventive acoustic projectors in an array. Nor is the inventive device s utility relegated to acoustic projection as it can be embodied for instance as a mechanical shaker.

The present invention also provides a method a system and a computer program product for modeling underwater acoustic projection apparatus. The inventive methodology typically comprises defining plural component parameters defining plural operation parameters and determining the amount of sound radiated by the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus. The component parameters relate to the components of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus. The component parameters include the number of turns in each spiral coiled electrical conductor the electrical resistance of each spiral coiled electrical conductor the spring constant of the elastic component the separation between the matrices in the absence of operation of the underwater acoustic projection apparatus and the radius of each matrix. The operation parameters relate to operation of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus. The operation parameters include the amount of voltage input the water depth of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus and the mass of the entrained water. The determination of the amount of sound includes using the defined component parameters and the defined operation parameters in an eclectic mathematical relationship. This eclectic mathematical relationship includes the voltage input the electromagnetic resonance the mechanical resonance and the sound radiated by the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus.

According to the inventive design methodology as typically practiced the components include a capacitance component two inductance components and an elastic component. Each inductance component includes a matrix and a spiral coiled electrical conductor embedded in the matrix. The elastic component is interposed between and abuts the matrices. The capacitance component is electrically connected to the spiral coiled electrical conductors in inductance capacitance circuitry in which the capacitance component represents the capacitance and in which the spiral coiled electrical conductors represent the inductance. During operation of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus voltage input into the inductance capacitance circuitry results in oscillation toward and away from each other of the two inductance components. This oscillation is associated with electromagnetic resonance the inductance capacitance circuitry and with mechanical resonance of a spring mass system in which the elastic component represents the spring and in which the entrained water represents at least substantially all of the mass. The underwater acoustic projection apparatus produces pressure waves in the water in association with the electromagnetic resonance and the mechanical resonance. The pressure waves are associated with sound radiated by the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus.

Performance of an inventive acoustic projector can thus be inventively predicted by inputting design parameters in an algorithm that inter relates voltage input electromagnetic behavior mechanical behavior and acoustic energy field output. As the inventive design methodology is frequently practiced the inventive practitioner repeats the steps of defining the component parameters defining the operation parameters and determining the amount of sound each repetition changing at least one defined component parameter and or at least one defined operation parameter. Based on information obtained via this iterative process pertaining to respective amounts of sound radiated by the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus the inventive practitioner can select a complete set of parameters consisting of a subset of component parameters and a subset of operation parameters.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Reference is now made to through which illustrate the fabrication of an acoustic projection device in accordance with the present invention. The completely assembled inventive acoustic projector is depicted in .

As shown in thick electrically conductive sheet material such as copper aluminum gold silver etc. is wound in a spiraling manner into two congruous coils viz. spiral wound coils and . Each spiral wound coil has two ends viz. an inwardly originating end which extends from a radially innermost area of the spiral and an outwardly originating end which extends from a radially outermost area of the spiral . Thus spiral wound coil has ends and spiral wound coil has ends and . According to usual inventive practice each coil is insulated e.g. covered with an electrically insulating material such as shown in . Typically the end segments portions of each coil are covered with a thicker layer of insulation as compared with the rest of coil in order to maintain a sufficiently small voltage difference for avoiding a breakdown that may be associated with a larger voltage difference. Each end serves as a lead for connecting to electronic apparatus in a manner such as illustrated in .

Although each of coils and is shown in and to describe four turns depending on the inventive embodiment the coils can be spiral wound with practically any plural number of turns. As typified by inventive practice the two coils and are shown to be congruous insofar as being composed of the same electrically conductive material and describing the same or approximately the same geometry e.g. in terms of width thickness number of turns however such congruity may be departed from in some inventive embodiments. Although the electrically conductive coils are shown as constituting sheet material which is wide and flat in inventive practice practically any wire shape is possible for coils . Use of sheet configured electrically conductive material for winding the coils may be of benefit due to the possible higher current and or lower electrical resistance and or lower inductance associated therewith especially when the coils are wound fewer numbers of times.

Most inventive embodiments provide for the embedding of coils in a matrix material e.g. an epoxy resinous material to house and protect the coils as well as to attribute them with a structural form that is more suitable for combination with an elastic material and for effectuation of the pressure wave producing resonant behavior. As shown in through each coil is encapsulated in a disk shaped shell that is composed of a matrix material . Shells and describe at least approximately the same disk shape having at least approximately the same dimensions. Shells and are shown in some of the figures herein to be optically transparent or translucent for illustrative purposes only as shells and are not necessarily so for inventive practice. Each combination inclusive of a coil and a shell is referred to herein as a coil containing disk . Coil containing disk includes coil and shell coil containing disk includes coil and shell . In the light of the instant disclosure the ordinarily skilled artisan will appreciate the various known techniques such as involving casting or molding of plastic materials that the inventive practitioner can bring to bear for encapsulating a coil in a shell so as to make a coil containing disk .

By disk shape is broadly meant herein a cylindrical approximately cylindrical or generally cylindrical geometric shape having a relatively short axial length e.g. shorter than its diameter. A disk shape can be purely cylindrical in a geometric sense or can be approximately or generally so for instance having edges corners or surfaces that are smoothed contoured faired linear curvilinear or curved e.g. for hydrodynamic or other purposes. In inventive practice a coil containing disk or a disk shaped shell can define a pure or nearly pure flattened geometric cylinder or can merely resemble a flattened geometric cylinder. A disk shaped shell can have for instance an outside exposed face describing a shape that is uneven or that exhibits convexity or concavity or than has a rim or that otherwise deviates from geometric planarity. The circumferential shape described by a disk shaped shell can be polygonal or oval or can otherwise deviate from geometric circularity. The benefit of a disk shape for shell and hence for coil containing disk will reside not it its geometric cylindricality per se but in its geometric concordance with the spiral shape of the coil contained therein and in its geometric suitability for oscillating according to inventive principles. Diverse shapes disk or non disk of the two shells and are possible in inventive practice.

The two shell shapes should be such as to be capable of creating pressure waves in its fluid environment while in an oscillatory state the two coil containing disks and repeatedly moving together and apart typically in accordance with an exact frequency selected by the inventive practitioner. Each coil should be firmly ensconced in its shell without any looseness or slackness whatsoever so that when the coil moves its shell moves precisely as does coil . Insulation of end portions may be especially recommended for underwater applications the insulating material should be coextensive at least with the portions of the coils that protrude outside the shell thereby insulating these protrusive coil portions from the aqueous environment.

Variously shown in through is the contiguous placement of a non magnetic elastic layer intermediate the two coil containing disks and . The present invention s elastic layer can be composed of any of multifarious non magnetic elastic materials . The elastic material can be any non magnetic material natural or synthetic e.g. polymeric having elastic e.g. viscoelastic physical character regardless of whether it includes at least one non magnetic non elastic material such as may be incorporated therein for at least one enhancement purpose. A variety of elastomers can be inventively practiced including but not limited to natural rubber silicon urethane e.g. polyurethane polyurea etc. Elastic layer can be composed of one elastic material or of two or more elastic materials. The elastic material can be a pure elastomer or a combination of pure elastomers or a composite such as a fiber reinforced elastomeric matrix composite material.

Inventive practice typically provides for the application of elastic layer through a known technique such as involving molding casting spraying or bonding. For instance elastic layer can be applied to a surface or surfaces of one or both coil containing disks using a conventional technique such as involving spraying or casting of an uncured polymeric substance. Alternatively elastic layer can consist of one or more cured polymeric inserts or stick ons that are adhered between the two coil containing disks . Regardless of the inventive fabrication method inventive practice usually prefers the contiguous arrangement of the two coil containing disks and the elastic layer therebetween.

The completed inventive acoustic projector depicted in includes three abutting sections viz. the two coil containing disks and and the elastic layer directly between them. Coils and define respective imaginary geometric planes that are parallel to each other and to the imaginary geometric plane defined by the elastic layer . In a sense inventive acoustic projector represents a composite material system having a sandwich construction in which the two extreme non elastic rigid layers viz. coil containing disks and sandwich the relatively thin intermediate elastic layer . Typical embodiments of inventive acoustic projector are less than one foot in length l and less than one foot in width e.g. diameter w the elastic layer being less than one inch in thickness t. When used in association with electronic apparatus such as illustrated in the inventive acoustic projector manifests oscillatory behavior back and forth in opposite directions as indicated by bidirectional arrow o which is shown in to be coincident with the longitudinal axis of inventive acoustic projector . The oscillation of the two coil containing disks and is toward and away from each other in the direction of bidirectional arrow o which is perpendicular to each of the imaginary geometric planes defined respectively by coil coil and elastic layer .

With reference to electrical e.g. dc electrical current from a power supply e.g. battery is conveyed to a signal amplifier which is connected to spiral wound coil at its ends and and to spiral wound coil at its ends and . Signal amplifier includes capacitors Cand C. Capacitor Cis connected in a loop with coil capacitor Cis connected in a loop with coil . The combination of capacitor Cand coil constitutes LC circuit LC wherein coil represents inductor L. Similarly the combination of capacitor Cand coil constitutes LC circuit LC wherein coil represents inductor L.

Voltage V from power supply feeds each of the LC circuits LCand LC. Each LC circuit can be understood to be either a series LC circuit or a parallel LC circuit. The respective electrifications of LC circuits LCand LCare in opposite polarities that is one LC circuit is electrified in positive polarity and the other LC circuit is electrified in negative polarity. Amplifier includes or is associated with an electrical control signal input which controls the electrical powering of the LC circuits LCand LC. Electrification of the LC circuits LCand LCcauses coils and and hence coil containing disks and to alternately repel each other and return to each other in a manner according with the electromagnetic phenomenon known as the Lenz effect. The intermittent electromagnetic repelling is associated with the oppositely polar electrifications one positive the other negative of the respective coils and

Note the idealized absence of resistance in the LC circuitry portrayed in as in real world practice of the present invention the LC inductor capacitor circuitry will actually be LCR inductor capacitor resistor circuitry. The R symbol in the LCR designation gives realistic recognition to the unavoidability of a degree of resistance in the circuitry or for that matter in any circuitry outside of the superconductivity realm albeit unwanted. Generally inventive practice will seek to reduce or minimize the amount of resistance in the circuitry so as to approach as nearly as possible the idealized LC circuitry wherein energy losses in the oscillatory behavior are nonexistent. Some inventive embodiments may also deliberately include one or more resistors as electronic components of the LCR circuitry.

With reference to and many applications of the present invention are underwater applications involving the projecting of sound for sonar related purposes. As shown in inventive acoustic projector is submerged in water . According to usual inventive practice the inventive acoustic projector is situated at a selected location including depth in water . Surrounding inventive acoustic projector in the immediate vicinity thereof is entrained water which is the portion of water that is entrained by inventive acoustic device when inventive acoustic projector is in an oscillatory state. The shown circularity of entrained water is diagrammatical as in inventive practice the entrained water portion may not describe a spherical or ellipsoidal or other perfectly regular geometrical shape. Entrained water comes to resonate synchronously as resonates the inventive acoustic projector . Un entrained water the majority of environmental water is the portion of environmental water that is not entrained by inventive acoustic projector while it oscillates. As illustrated in the combination of the oscillating inventive acoustic projector and the entrained water constitutes a spring mass system in which elastic layer constitutes the spring and in which the combination of the coil containing disks and and the entrained water constitutes the mass.

Certain known physics principles are especially pertinent to the present invention. A harmonic oscillator broadly defined is any system that when displaced from its equilibrium position experiences a restoring force that is proportional to its displacement. A simple harmonic oscillator is a simplified model of such a system in which there is only one force F acting on the system. A simple harmonic oscillator can be any mechanical system that mathematically behaves or any other system that mathematically behaves in an analogous manner in accordance with the relationship F kx where a returning force F is directly proportional to a displacement x the constant of proportionality k being greater than zero. For instance F kx represents the equation of motion of a mass spring system the spring equation where F is the force exerted by the spring x is the distance to which the spring is stretched and k is the spring constant. In a spring mass system a mass is attached to the end of a spring. When the spring mass system a type of simple harmonic oscillator is in an oscillatory state it oscillates with a mechanical resonant frequency which is related to the spring constant k and the mass m in the equation k m . Analogously when an LC circuit also a type of simple harmonic oscillator is in an oscillatory state it oscillates with an electromagnetic resonant frequency which is related to the capacitance C and the inductance L in the equation 1 LC 1 LC . In these analogous equations in the mechanical and electromagnetic oscillatory realms the mass m corresponds to the inductance L the spring constant k corresponds to 1 C which is the reciprocal of capacitance C and is known as the electrical elastance. Also in the analogy between the spring mass system and the LC circuit the force F corresponds to the voltage the displacement x corresponds to the charge and the velocity corresponds to the current.

In typical inventive practice the spring mass system includes three main components viz. the inventive acoustic projector s elastic layer the spring in the spring mass system the inventive acoustic projector s pair of coil containing disks and part of the mass in the spring mass system and the entrained fluid typically water . The elastic layer is characterized by a spring constant k. The total mass m of the spring mass system equals the sum of the masses of the entrained water and the two coil containing disks and . As the present invention is usually embodied practically all of the total mass m of the spring mass system is constituted by the entrained water the mass of the two coil containing disks and being negligible. The inventive practitioner can provide an elastic layer of a selected spring constant k by selecting e.g. adjusting the material composition and or shape configuration and or dimensions of the elastic layer . The selection of a spring constant k can be based for instance on a desired mechanical resonant frequency and or a determined mass m.

The present invention s objective of matching the electromagnetic resonant frequency of the electrified coils with the mechanical resonant frequency of the spring mass system can be attained by tuning the LC circuitry and or tuning the spring mass system. To achieve this mutuality the inventive practitioner can adjust either or both of a the electromagnetic resonant frequency and b the mechanical resonant frequency.

For a sinusoidal electrification the drive frequency the frequency applied by the amplifier in the LC circuitry is twice the electromagnetic resonant frequency of the coils. Therefore in order to bring the LC circuitry in concert with the spring mass system the inventive practitioner can apply a drive frequency to the LC circuitry that is one half of the mechanical resonant frequency of the spring mass system thereby rendering the electromagnetic resonant frequency which is automatically twice the drive frequency equal to the mechanical resonant frequency. In addition or alternative thereto the inventive practitioner can render the stiffness spring constant of the elastic layer to be a value that will result in a mechanical resonant frequency that equals the electromagnetic resonant frequency. The elastic layer which is the spring in the spring mass system is characterized by a spring constant k synonymously referred to herein as its stiffness. Furthermore additionally or alternatively the inventive practitioner can vary the sizes of the coil containing disks and . The respective diameters of the coil containing disks and according to typical inventive practice are equal to each other or are at least approximately so. The disk diameter relates to the amount of fluid e.g. water entrained by and hence the mass m in the spring mass system more specifically a greater disk diameter will tend to be accompanied by a greater mass m. Hence there are at least three parameters variable either singly or in combination for achieving coherence of the electromagnetic and mechanical resonant frequencies viz. i the drive frequency of the LC circuitry ii the stiffness spring constant of the elastic layer ii the diameter of each coil containing disk .

Other parameters can be varied toward matching the electromagnetic and mechanical resonances with one another and or toward other purposes. The resistance inductance and or number of turns can be adjusted to achieve various design properties such as electrical resonant frequency and Q and force output. The elastic properties of the material between the coils and the diameter of the disk can be adjusted to achieve the desired mechanical design properties such as frequency and mechanical Q. Various wire materials copper aluminum etc. can be used to achieve various desired electrical and mechanical properties such as electrical resistance and weight mass of the coils . Various wire shapes can be used for coils to achieve various volume factors which can affect the size and the force output of the inventive acoustic projector .

The present invention s unique effectuation of dual resonant principles in which a resonant electrical LC circuit matches a resonant spring mass system allows for high efficiency power transmission e.g. on the order of 70 80 and perhaps as high as 97 . High powering efficiency is promoted when the inventive acoustic projector is used in association with a high current low voltage power source. Efficiency can also be enhanced in inventive practice by reducing e.g. minimizing the electrical resistance of the LC circuitry so that the LC circuitry as nearly as practicable approaches the ideal LC circuitry which suffers no energy losses because resistance is absent. An ideal LC circuit includes capacitance C and inductance L but does not include resistance R . In inventive practice shortening the coils such as by winding each coil a fewer number of times e.g. three to five times rather than a greater number of times may serve to lower the resistance of the LC circuitry. Inventive implementation of a low resistance power source can also contribute toward lowering the overall resistance of the inventive apparatus. Due to recent advancements in current amplifier technology e.g. in terms of high power high speed solid state switching the present invention can be used in especially propitious ways as small low frequency high source level acoustic projectors for sonobuoy applications.

Inventive practice lends itself to wide latitude regarding elastic layer and its properties. A variety of elastic materials can be used for constituting elastic layer . Various techniques including molding spraying casting or bonding e.g. gluing can be used for adjacently situating elastic layer between the coil containing disks and . For instance one or more formed elastomeric inserts can be placed between and adhered to the two coil containing disks and so as to be sandwiched by the two coil containing disk and . As another example elastomeric material can be sprayed on one disk and the other disk placed over the sprayed on elastomeric material.

With reference to through diverse geometries of elastic layer can be implemented. Elastic layer can be a single continuous piece of elastic material such as shown in through and or can consist of plural e.g. multiple pieces of elastic material such as shown in and . Elastic layer can range in thickness typically falling in the thickness range between approximately 1 micron and approximately 4 centimeters. Whatever the geometry and material composition of elastic layer inventive practice generally demands at least that the elastic layer be capable of functioning effectively as the spring in the spring mass system.

Reference now being made to through the present inventors made a computer program test prototype DEMPS of their inventive design methodology for their resonant acoustic projector. Although the inventive design methodology is especially useful for the inventive resonant acoustic projector some principles of the inventive design methodology are also applicable to the present inventors acoustic projector pursuant to U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 819 B1 issued 27 May 2003.

The present inventors style their prototypical algorithm design software DEMPS acronymic for Dynamic Electromagnetic Projector Simulator important aspects of which are depicted in . The DEMPS can model an inventive acoustic projector to determine for instance the amount of projected sound given an overall set of design parameters. This inventive computational model represents an inventive system driven by an electric voltage source. The voltage source drives the electrical electromagnetic resonance circuit. The electrical resonance circuit couples to the mechanical resonance circuit. The mechanical resonance circuit drives the acoustic circuit which accounts for the radiated sound. Prediction of underwater acoustic projection performance by the DEMPS program includes the inputting of design parameters in an algorithm that inter relates voltage input electromagnetic behavior mechanical behavior and acoustic energy field output.

The DEMPS program can predict for instance the output acoustic source level efficiency and or waveform for a given set of parametric inputs. The inventive DEMPS program enables the inventive practitioner to search for the optimal projector parameters for a given source level and frequency range. The inventive practitioner can solve for instance for the acoustic power generated by the inventive device and or for the powering efficiency of the inventive device. The efficiency with which electrical energy is converted to acoustic energy can be described in terms of the ratio of acoustic power sound intensity times area to electrical power voltage times current for instance an efficiency of 90 indicates that the ratio acoustic power electrical power equals 0.9. These predictions can be obtained for each of plural multiple sets of parameters wherein at least one component parameter and or at least one operation parameter is varied with respect to the other sets. By comparing these solutions for different sets of parameters the inventive practitioner can select a superior or optimal set of parameters for inventive practice.

The components of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus include a capacitance component two inductance components and and an elastic component . Each inductance component includes a matrix and a spiral coiled electrical conductor embedded in the matrix . The elastic component is interposed between and abuts the two matrices and . The capacitance component is electrically connected to the spiral coiled electrical conductors and in inductance capacitance circuitry in which the capacitance component represents the capacitance and in which the spiral coiled electrical conductors and represent the inductance.

The term inductance capacitance circuit or LC circuit as used herein denotes inclusion not necessarily exclusivity of inductance and capacitance in the circuit. The inventive design methodology recognizes and accounts for the fact that the inductance capacitance LC circuitry is actually inductance capacitance resistance LCR circuitry such as depicted in since a degree of resistance is necessarily involved in any kind of real world electrical conductivity other than superconductivity. Inventive practice will frequently see a resistance in the LC circuitry of about one or two ohms which is a significant amount of resistance.

During operation of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus voltage input into the inductance capacitance circuitry results in oscillation toward and away from each other of the two inductance components and . This oscillation is associated with electromagnetic resonance of the inductance capacitance circuitry and with mechanical resonance of the spring mass system in which the elastic component represents the spring and in which the entrained water represents at least substantially all of the mass m . The inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus produces pressure waves in the water in association with the electromagnetic resonance and the mechanical resonance. These pressure waves are associated with the sound radiated by the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus.

The inventive design methodology mathematically inter relates four main circuits viz. 1 the driving voltage circuit 2 the electrical inductance capacitance circuit 3 the mechanical circuit and 4 the acoustical circuit. The acoustical circuit an output of the overall inventive system represents an open circuit describing energy flowing into an acoustic field. The electrical circuit characterized by an electrical circuit equation as shown in and and the mechanical circuit characterized by a mechanical circuit equation as shown in and are coupled with each other. Further the mechanical circuit and the acoustical circuit characterized by an acoustical circuit equation as shown in and are coupled with each other. The inventive design methodology solves these two pairs of coupled circuit equations. An inventive computer program such as the DEMPS prototype can calculate or compute the four circuits in an inter relational manner.

The driving voltage circuit which includes or is associated with power supply inputs electrical energy of known voltage and current into the inductance capacitance circuit. The driving voltage circuit is assumed to be impedance matched to the electrical circuit since the matching of these electrical impedances will tend to maximize power flow that is in furtherance of energy efficiency the electrical impedance of the driving voltage circuit is equated to the electrical impedance of the electrical LC circuit where the electrical impedance is the ratio of voltage to current. This impedance matching itself represents a kind of design parameter that is typically adopted in practice of the inventive design methodology. Typical inventive resonant acoustic projection embodiments provide for low electrical impedance of the LC circuitry. In other words a typical inventive acoustic projection device is a low impedance device.

The electrical circuit equation expresses the initial response of the inventive system to an electrical driving signal voltage V. The electrical circuit is coupled to the mechanical circuit which is secondary to the electrical circuit by the force resulting from the electrical current i in the coils and and the change in inductance L associated with the change in distance a between the two component coils. In the arrows between the electrical circuit and the mechanical circuit are shown to be bidirectional because of feedback of the mechanical circuit onto the electrical circuit this back emf is typically accounted for by the inventive design methodology. The response of the mechanical circuit is mainly determined by a the reactive mass of the entrained fluid which is entrained in a region around or surrounding the inventive acoustic projector and b the spring stiffness e.g. spring constant s of the elastic layer which is situated between the coil containing disks and . Depending on the inventive embodiment the stiffness of the matrix material encapsulating the coils may also play a role in this regard.

The mechanical circuit is coupled to the acoustical circuit which includes the surrounding acoustic medium by the motion of the walls of the matrices and . The matrix wall velocity and the acoustic impedance of the spherical fluid waves e.g. spherical water waves determine the acoustic pressure field produced by the inventive acoustic projector . elaborates upon the acoustical circuit with regard to the acoustic impedance of the water water density times acoustic velocity and demonstrates how the output sound or efficiency varies with the frequency of the sound waves.

As shown in the inventive computer program e.g. DEMPS is resident in the memory of a computer . Various parameters categorized in the diagram as given independent variables and fixed circuit parameters are input into the DEMPS program. The parameters can also be categorized as component parameters which relate to the components of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus in terms e.g. of size configuration and material composition and operation parameters which relate to the operation including electrification of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus . The set subset of component parameters includes i the number of turns in each spiral coiled electrical conductor ii the electrical resistance of each spiral coiled electrical conductor iii the spring constant s of the elastic component iv the separation between the two matrices and when the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus is not operating i.e. the initial displacement between the two coils and and iv the radius of each matrix . The set subset of operation parameters includes i the amount of voltage input ii the water depth z of the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus and iii the mass m of the entrained water.

In accordance with typical embodiments of the inventive design modeling methodology the amount of sound radiated by the inventive underwater acoustic projection apparatus is determined using the defined component parameters and the defined operation parameters in an eclectic mathematical relationship variously illustrated in through . The present invention s eclectic mathematical relationship especially takes into consideration the voltage input the electromagnetic resonance the mechanical resonance and the sound radiated by the underwater acoustic projection apparatus. As illustrated in and empirical test results demonstrated the capability of an inventive acoustic projector of producing desirable amounts of sound underwater. The amount of sound as well as the energy efficiency is shown to increase with increasing driving voltage. Other testing of the present invention yielded good results for the inventive acoustic projector at both shallower and deeper water depths.

Cavitation is a problem normally associated with operation of conventional piezoelectric acoustic projectors which are particularly prone to breakage near the surface of the water due to their high source levels at shallower depths. The cavitation of the piezoelectric device reduces static pressure and thus causes excessive displacements in the piezoelectric device. Piezoelectric crystal fatigues quickly at higher pressures. In contrast the present invention s electromagnetic acoustic projector as usually embodied is not beset with a catastrophic cavitation limit. The present invention s reactive mass tends to match impedances at any water depth. This is particularly important at shallower depths due to the action of the present invention s reactive mass the present invention s acoustic projector is capable of operating at all depths including shallower depths in the absence of a significant amount of cavitation. The inventive reactive mass acts not only as an impedance matching device but also as a power transformer. For instance the present invention can achieve greater sound levels with greater electrical power inputs and or greater coil containing disk areas and or greater operational water depths.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

