---

title: Non-invasive initiation detonation sensor
abstract: The present invention is directed to an apparatus and method of use for detecting the explosive detonation. The apparatus has a plurality of sensors consecutively arranged and spaced apart wherein each pair of consecutive light sensors defines a sensor pair. The sensors are sequentially activated by light produced by the detonation of explosive detonation and are inactivated by the absence of light. The sensors provide data that represents the amount of time that elapses between activation of a first light sensor in a sensor pair and activation of a second light sensor in the sensor pair and the length of time in which each sensor is activated. The data is processed to determine detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values associated with material detonation and to provide an output signal that indicates whether the determined detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values are valid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07470883&OS=07470883&RS=07470883
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07470883
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061002
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to an apparatus and method of use determining the detonation velocity and chemical reaction time associated with the detonation of explosive material.

Electronic control systems are becoming very valuable tools in the field of explosives. The performance of many of these electronic control systems would be enhanced if such systems could reliably and accurately detect initiation or detonation of a conventional explosive. Having such information beforehand would enable the electronic control systems to adjust or re program. Furthermore it would be useful for an electronic control system to determine the detonation velocity and chemical reaction time associated with the detonation of an explosive.

Prior art systems used to detect the detonation of explosive materials use electro mechanical interfaces that are prone to reliability problems due to moving parts and complex mechanical components. Such prior art systems also lack the timing accuracy necessary to distinguish between different types of explosives.

As such a need exists for an apparatus and method of use that reliably detects the initiation and or detonation of an explosive.

Therefore it is a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method of use that accurately and reliably detects the initiation and or detonation of a conventional explosive.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method of use for detecting the detonation velocity and chemical reaction time associated with the detonation of explosive material.

It is a still further object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method of use for accurately and reliably detecting the initiation and or detonation of a conventional explosive at a reasonable cost.

In accordance with the objects of the present invention there is provided an apparatus to detect the detonation of an explosive comprising a plurality of light sensors consecutively arranged and spaced apart by a predetermined distance wherein each pair of consecutive light sensors defines a light sensor pair. The light sensors are sequentially activated by light produced by the detonation of explosive material and are inactivated by the absence of light.

The light sensors provide sensor data that represents the amount of time that elapses between activation of a first light sensor in a sensor pair and activation of a second light sensor in the sensor pair and the length of time in which each light sensor is activated. Such sensor data ensures a unique and predictable pattern for a known explosive.

The apparatus further comprises a processor to process the sensor data to determine detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values associated with the detonation of explosive material and to indicate whether the determined detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values are valid.

In accordance with a related aspect of the invention a method of use is disclosed for detecting the detonation of explosives comprising the steps of arranging a plurality of light sensors in a consecutive orientation wherein the light sensors are spaced apart by a predetermined distance and each pair of consecutive light sensors defines a light sensor pair. The light sensors are sequentially activated by light produced by the detonation of explosive material and are inactivated by the absence of light. The light sensors provide sensor data that is defined by the amount of time that elapses between activation of a first light sensor in a sensor pair and activation of a second light sensor in the sensor pair and the length of time in which each light sensor is activated.

The method further comprises the steps of processing the sensor data to determine detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values associated with an explosion and indicating whether the determined detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values are valid.

Referring now to there is shown an apparatus of the present invention which detects the initiation and or detonation of explosive material. The apparatus generally comprises a plurality of light sensors and consecutively arranged and spaced apart by a predetermined distance D . In one embodiment the predetermined distance D is about one inch however the distance D can be less than or greater than one inch.

Although the three light sensors and are shown it is to be understood that there can be more than three light sensors. Each pair of consecutive light sensors defines a light sensor pair. For example the light sensors and form one light sensor pair and the light sensors and form a second light sensor pair. Each light sensor and is activated by light waves associated with an initiation and or detonation of explosive material and is inactivated by the absence of light. In one embodiment each light sensor and comprises a PIN photodiode.

The light sensors and provide light sensor data signals and respectively that represent the amount of time that elapses between activation of a first light sensor in a light sensor pair and activation of a second light sensor in the light sensor pair and the length of time in which each light sensor is activated. For example the amount of time between activation of the light sensor and activation of the light sensor is T. Similarly the amount of time between activation of the light sensor and activation of the light sensor is T. The length of time in which a light sensor remains activated is referred to as the high time . This high time is related to the chemical reaction time. The sensor data provided by the light sensors and serves to ensure a unique and predictable pattern for a known explosive.

The apparatus further comprises processor to process the light sensor data signals and in order to determine detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values associated with the initiation and or detonation of an explosive material and to provide an output signal that indicates whether the determined detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values are valid.

In a preferred embodiment processor comprises a microprocessor both the processor and microprocessor are of a type known to those skilled in the art. The processor is programmed to implement an algorithm that determines a detonation velocity value by dividing the predetermined distance D by the amount of time that elapses between activation of a first light sensor in a light sensor pair and activation of a second light sensor in the light sensor pair. Thus the processor determines one detonation velocity value by calculating D T. The processor determines a second detonation velocity value by calculating D T. Since there are three light sensors and there are two detonation velocity values. If four light sensors were used there would be three detonation velocity values.

Each light sensor and may be configured by a variety of electronic circuits known to those skilled in the art. One suitable electronic circuit is shown in . Only the light sensor is shown in the figure. The light sensor includes a comparator PIN photodiode and reference voltage V. The anode of the photodiode and the non inverting input of the comparator are connected to power supply voltage V. The inverting input of the comparator is connected to the reference voltage V. When the photodiode detects the light wave the photodiode becomes conductive and connects the power supply voltage V to the non inverting input of the comparator . In response the comparator outputs signal that has a logic high voltage level e.g. 3.5 volts.

When the light wave is not present the photodiode becomes an open circuit. In response the comparator outputs the signal that has a logic low voltage level e.g. 0.5 volts. It is to be understood that the circuit shown in is just an example and that other circuits are possible.

Referring again to the processor determines a chemical reaction time value for each light sensor and . Specifically the processor determines the chemical reaction time value by measuring the length of time in which a light sensor remains activated. The processor also determines if each determined detonation velocity value and each determined chemical reaction time value are within predetermined ranges of values.

The processor outputs the signal which exhibits a first state that indicates all determined detonation values and chemical reaction time values are within the predetermined ranges of values and are thus valid or a second state that indicates that at least one of determined detonation values and or at least one of the determined chemical reaction times is not within the predetermined ranges of values. Table I lists examples of predetermined ranges of values for detonation velocity values and chemical reaction times.

Referring now to the processor is programmed with software that implements an AND logic function that results in generation of the signal . This AND logic function is represented by AND logic gate which is provided to facilitate understanding of the operation of the processor .

After the processor determines whether or not the determined detonation velocity values are valid the processor generates status signals and . Each status signal and has a first logic state to indicate whether the determined detonation velocity value is valid and a second logic state to indicate whether the determined detonation velocity value is invalid.

Similarly after the processor determines whether or not the determined chemical reaction times are valid the processor generates status signals and . Each status signal and has a first logic state to indicate the determined chemical reaction time value is valid and a second logic state to indicate the determined chemical reaction time value is invalid.

The AND logic function represented by the AND logic gate is performed on all status signals and . When all of the status signals and have the first logic state the AND logic function provides signal with the first logic state which indicates all determined detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values are valid. If one or more of the status signals and have the second logic state then the AND logic function provides the signal with the second logic state which indicates invalid detonation velocity values and or invalid chemical reaction time values.

The signal is then routed to other external electronic systems components or equipment not shown that require updated and accurate information as to whether the determined detonation velocity values and chemical reaction time values are valid or invalid.

A significant feature of the present invention is that the apparatus can recognize detonation from either direction. In order for the apparatus to recognize detonation from either direction the light sensors and must be activated in a sequential order. Thus the apparatus detects an explosion in a first direction if the light sensors are sequentially activated in the following sequence SENSOR . . . SENSOR . . . SENSOR . Conversely if the apparatus detects an explosion in a second opposite direction the light sensors are sequentially activated in the following sequence SENSOR . . . SENSOR . . . SENSOR . If any of the light sensors are activated out of order then the processor outputs the signal having the second logic state that indicates the determined detonation velocities and chemical reaction times are invalid.

In a preferred embodiment the apparatus is configured so that the processor outputs the signal with the second logic state to indicate invalid detonation velocity values and chemical reaction times if any glitches occur on the inputs of the light sensors and during a predetermined time window after the last light sensor in the sequence becomes inactivated. In one embodiment this predetermined time window is defined by the time period between 2 milliseconds and 49 milliseconds after the last light sensor becomes inactivated.

In one application the apparatus is used in combination with a NONEL Non Electric noiseless trunk line. A NONEL line generally comprises a hollow plastic tube having an inside coated with a minute amount of explosive. Such a configuration is shown in . The figure depicts a portion of a sensor shell housing in which a NONEL line may be inserted.

The shell surrounds inner a channel . Entry opening is in communication with the channel and is provided for insertion of the NONEL line not shown . In this embodiment the light sensors and are configured as PIN photodiodes and are positioned in retaining members that are attached to the shell . Leads and of the light sensors and respectively are connected to other circuitry in the apparatus . The light sensors and are adjacent to the channel such that the light receiving portion of each PIN photodiode confronts the channel. The light sensors and are spaced apart by distance D which in this embodiment is one inch.

In one embodiment the shell is fabricated from opaque plastic. When an explosion occurs in the NONEL line the explosion is contained within the channel but travels down the channel producing light waves. Thus if the explosion was traveling from left to right in the light sensor is the first light sensor to be activated and the light sensor is the next light sensor to be activated. The light sensor is activated last. The operation of the light sensors and is nearly independent of the length of the NONEL line provided that there is sufficient length of the NONEL line to provide a full speed detonation. In this case the length is approximately 12 18 inches.

Thus the present invention provides an apparatus and method to accurately and reliably detect detonation of an explosion and to provide confirmation of the explosion to external electronic control systems thereby allowing such electronic control systems to react to the explosion. A significant feature of the invention is that the light sensors provide sensor data that represents the amount of time that elapses between activation of a first light sensor in a sensor pair and activation of a second light sensor in the sensor pair and the length of time in which each light sensor is activated. This sensor data serves to ensure a unique and predictable pattern for a known explosive.

Apparatus of the present invention may be implemented with commercially available electronic components and may also be configured on one monolithic chip. The present invention can be used in a wide variety of applications e.g. anti terrorism military law enforcement etc.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within which the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

