---

title: Method and computer-readable medium for dynamically adjusting a multimedia data resolution in a wireless environment
abstract: A method and computer-readable medium for dynamically adjusting a multimedia data resolution in a wireless environment is provided. The method includes: determining the access profile of the mobile station; monitoring transmission conditions in the wireless system; transmitting the multimedia data and control signaling to the mobile station with a highest resolution based upon the transmission conditions, wherein the control signaling determines an amount of the multimedia data accessible to the mobile station based upon the access profile of the mobile station; and decreasing a resolution of the multimedia data being transmitted to the mobile station, if the transmission conditions become unacceptable for transmitting the multimedia data at the highest resolution. If the transmission conditions become acceptable for transmitting the multimedia data at a higher resolution, the resolution of the multimedia data being transmitted to the mobile station is increased to the highest possible resolution based upon the transmission conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08340697&OS=08340697&RS=08340697
owner: Nextel Communications Inc.
number: 08340697
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060126
---
The present invention relates to communications between mobile stations and base stations in a wireless network and more particularly to broadcast multicast communications in the wireless network.

Transmission of multimedia data such as video has become more prevalent recently. For example users desire to receive broadcast communications and to send and receive video data on their mobile stations e.g. cell phones PDAs PCs etc. Multimedia data often requires more bandwidth than other types of data such as voice communications. However due to bandwidth limitations the growth in the transmission of multimedia data presents a problem for wireless networks.

Transmissions in wireless networks typically use unicast multicast or broadcast communications. Unicast generally refers to communications over a network between one sender and one receiver. Multicasting generally refers to transmissions to users devices that have joined a particular multicast group. Broadcasting in a network generally refers to sending information to all of the users on the network.

Under a unicast approach each user in a wireless network has his her own connection profile and is treated separately. In this environment multiple users cannot share a common air interface channel due to varying quality of service QoS needs. Thus separate channels are set up for each of the users. Because of this approach air interface traffic in the wireless network is significantly impacted. For example the number of users per cell significantly decreases with every high bandwidth video connection leaving limited support for multiple video connections. Because separate channels are set up for each of the users identical high bandwidth channels transmitted to multiple destinations are often used which requires significant wireless network resources. The above described individual unicast transmissions to each user are too inefficient and do not take advantage of the efficiencies of multicasting.

Multicasting provides improvements over the multi path unicast approach but typical multicasting is still inefficient. For example a separate multicast connection will exist for each profile even though the same media content is sent.

Additionally users sharing a multicast connection cannot change their service Quality of Service QoS profile e.g. picture quality in real time without disconnecting from the current active connection. Also users cannot easily compensate for traffic impairments on a multicast connection. Moreover due to high bandwidth demand handoff is cumbersome and difficult e.g. an adjacent sector may not have the required bandwidth. Likewise joining and leaving a multicast wireless group is difficult to implement.

The present invention provides a method and computer readable medium for dynamically adjusting a multimedia data resolution in a wireless environment. By dynamically adjusting the multimedia data resolution at the mobile station multiple mobile stations with different QOS requirements can use the same data stream. This scheme ensures that each mobile station receives only the necessary and sufficient data that matches its configured QOS. The base station transmits the highest resolution multimedia data while signalling to the mobile station limits the reception to the configured QOS. This scheme minimizes the overall downlink bandwidth on the Radio Frequency transport.

Also the present invention provides a method and computer readable medium for dynamically modifying an access profile of a mobile station to allow the mobile station to increase or decrease its level of quality access to multimedia data. An access profile includes the characteristics that define the level of quality of multimedia data transmissions associated with a mobile station. The mobile station may be billed for the multimedia data based upon the access profile.

Other objects advantages and novel features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present invention provides methods and computer readable media for communicating between base stations and mobile stations in a wireless network in either a multicast environment or a broadcast environment. In a multicast environment each connection between a base station and a plurality of mobile stations is associated with a class or group of users. The connection between the base station and the mobile stations is via an air interface. Multicast requirements for a particular connection may include only the air interface.

Although multicasting is primarily described below the methods and computer readable media disclosed herein relate to broadcasting as well as multicasting. Examples of high level multimedia services that may utilize the present invention include but are not limited to Digital Video Broadcasting DVB and Open Cable Application Platform OCAP .

An exemplary embodiment of a wireless network according to the present invention is illustrated in . As illustrated in the wireless network may include mobile stations through N base station and MSC HLR Mobile services Switching Center Home Location Register . Although only one base station is illustrated the wireless network may include a plurality of base stations.

In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a method for transmitting multimedia data based upon an access profile of a mobile station in a wireless system in which the resolution of the multimedia data is modified based upon the transmission conditions. In this context resolution may be described in terms of a level of quality or service of the multimedia data where multiple quality or service levels are available. For example some multimedia encoding schemes such as MPEG 4 provide basic encoding information and enhanced encoding information. In accordance with the present invention the basic and enhanced information can be transmitted over different channels. Lower resolution can be provided by accessing and decoding the basic information and higher resolution can be provided by accessing and decoding both the basic and enhanced information. In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the available service levels may be mapped to the basic and enhanced encoding levels by an application programming interface API .

As described above the resolution of the multimedia data may be decreased based upon the transmission conditions of the wireless system in step . For example if the resolution of the multimedia data currently being transmitted is lower than the highest resolution possible based upon the monitored transmission conditions then the resolution may be increased.

In the method illustrated in a single multimedia data transmission may be sent to a plurality of mobile stations. For example a single multimedia data stream may be transmitted to all of the mobile stations in a network. Each mobile station has its own access profile which determines how much of the multimedia data is accessible to the mobile station. In particular the control signalling transmitted with the multimedia data may indicate an amount of the multimedia data that is accessible to each of the mobile stations based upon the access profile of each of the mobile stations.

By decreasing the resolution of the multimedia data transmission based on the transmission conditions mobile stations can continue to receive the multimedia data at a decreased resolution. The decreasing of the resolution affects all of the members of a group of users e.g. mobile stations . Only the mobile stations that have greater resolution than transmission conditions will see decreased resolution. Without this dynamic adjustment of the multimedia data resolution the multimedia data transmission could be lost entirely due to the transmission conditions. By dynamically increasing the resolution of the multimedia data transmission when the transmission conditions improve mobile stations can receive the highest resolution multimedia data as often as the transmission conditions and access profile will allow.

In exemplary embodiments of the present invention the access profile may include a service level agreement between a user and a service provider or a quality of service level. The access profile of the mobile station may be stored for example in a lookup table in which a user ID corresponding to the mobile station is associated with the access profile. The access profile may be distributed to an associated switching device e.g. base station of the wireless system for example.

To provide multimedia data to a group of mobile stations having a plurality of access profiles a base station may partition the multimedia data into multiple channels using a multi layered encoding scheme e.g. MPEG 4 . The channels may include a basic encoding channel and enhanced encoding channels for example as illustrated in .

In all of users and have access to the basic channel of data but only users and have access to the data in the enhanced channel and only user has access to the data in the enhanced channel. All of the data in the basic channel and in both enhanced channels may be received by all of the users but only the users described above have access to the enhanced and enhanced data based upon the access profiles of the users. The time periods and other information illustrated in are merely exemplary.

In addition to being used to determine the amount of multimedia data accessible to the mobile stations the access profile may be used to determine the proper billing amount for each mobile station. For example mobile stations may be billed based upon the level of service selected by users. The access profiles may be used to define the selected level of service for each mobile station. Thus based upon the multimedia data received by the mobile stations and the corresponding level of service of each of the mobile stations the mobile stations may be billed for the multimedia data.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present application users can modify the access profile of their respective mobile stations. To modify the access profile of a mobile station the subscriber can send a request to modify the active access profile to a Mobile Switching Center. If the mobile station subscriber requesting the modification is authorized to have the requested access profile the active access profile of the mobile station is modified as requested. The configured access profile indicates the best QOS that the mobile station subscriber may use request. Once the active access profile is modified the mobile station s ability to access the multimedia data changes in correspondence with the modified access profile. By modifying the active access profile of a mobile station to a higher level the mobile station has access to higher quality multimedia data. If the access profile is modified to a lower level the mobile station has access to lower quality multimedia data. For example when the access profile for user in is modified to a higher level user may begin to have access to enhanced encoded data e.g. providing better picture granularity for videos .

When a change in an air interface protocol occurs for a mobile station modification of the access profile of the mobile station may automatically occur. For example when a mobile station moves from a CDMA 2000 1xEVDO environment to a CDMA 1xRTT environment a user of the mobile station may continue viewing a desired multimedia data stream but the multimedia data stream may have a lower level of quality or resolution for viewing.

If it is determined in step that sufficient channels are available to process the request or if sufficient channels are added removed in step the billing arrangement is adjusted in step to reflect the modified access profile. In step the mobile station is informed of the added removed channels corresponding to the modified access profile. Thus multimedia channels may be associated with the mobile station based upon the modified multimedia channel access profile.

As described above the transmission conditions of the mobile station may be monitored and used to modify the level of multimedia data transmitted to the mobile station. For example once it is determined that no request to modify the access profile has been received in step or after the mobile station is informed of the modified channels corresponding to the modified access profile in step it is determined in step whether there is a change in the RF conditions for the mobile station. If there is change in the RF conditions the channels accessible by the mobile station may be modified e.g. increased or decreased based on the mobile station s access profile and the mobile station informed of the modification in step .

Encoding schemes such as MPEG 4 have a predefined set of encoding levels. Each of these encoding levels is mapped to a set of channels needed to support the bandwidth of the encoding level. The exemplary embodiments of the present invention illustrated in and trigger the associated signalling mechanism in the base stations. The embodiments illustrated in and correspond to the dynamic adjustment of the downlink data stream to conserve air link resources.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a method for performing a multimedia channel handover of a mobile station from a first base station to a second base station in a wireless network. As illustrated in a multimedia broadcast is transmitted to a mobile station in step . In step the mobile station requests a multimedia channel handover from base station . After the handover request is made by the mobile station the handover process begins in step . An MSC for example indicates to the second base station the bandwidth allocation for the mobile station in step . Multimedia channels of the second base station are associated with the mobile station in step . A handover success indication may be sent from the mobile station to base station in step and the handover success indication may then be sent from the base station to the MSC in step . The multimedia channels of the first base station associated with the mobile station are released in step .

As illustrated in a handover complete indication is sent to the second base station in step and a multimedia broadcast can be sent from the second base station to the mobile station in step . Although the foregoing method is described in relation to a single mobile station the method may also be implemented with a plurality of mobile stations wherein the handover for each of the mobile stations is treated individually.

In a wireless network with a plurality of mobile stations in accordance with the present invention each of the mobile stations may be independent of the other mobile stations. Due to this independence if a mobile station begins receiving a multimedia data transmission the other mobile stations in the network are not affected. Likewise if a mobile station stops receiving the multimedia data transmission the other mobile stations in the network are not affected. In other words mobile stations may join or leave a multicast group at any time without affecting the rest of the group. No performance impacts are seen in the cell if the number of allocated channels does not change. If the number of allocated channels changes i.e. increases or decreases the cell capacity changes.

When joining a multicast group i.e. a join operation a mobile station may be given multicast listening channel allocations for receiving a multimedia data transmission based upon the mobile station s access profile. An API may be used to perform this mapping. Listening may be considered to begin when the mobile station acknowledges the join operation. Joining a multicast group may be asynchronous to any broadcast operations at a base station.

When leaving a multicast group a mobile station may stop listening on the allocated listening channels and notify the base station that it has left the multicast group.

The independence of the mobile stations also means that if the access profile for one mobile station is modified the other mobile stations are not affected by the modification of the access profile.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a computer readable medium encoded with a computer program for transmitting multimedia data to a mobile station in a wireless system. which is discussed above illustrates a program in accordance with this embodiment. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a computer readable medium encoded with a computer program for establishing a multimedia channel association for a mobile station in a wireless environment. Since the instructions associated with the computer program of this embodiment have already been discussed above in relation to that discussion is not repeated here. In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a computer readable medium encoded with a computer program for tearing down a multimedia channel association between a base station and a mobile station in a wireless environment is provided. The instructions of the computer program correspond to the method steps described above with regard to . In another exemplary embodiment of a computer readable medium in accordance with the present invention the computer readable medium is encoded with a computer program for modifying a multimedia channel access profile of a mobile station. The instructions corresponding to this computer program are discussed above in relation to . In yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is a computer readable medium encoded with a computer program for performing a multimedia channel handover of a mobile station from a first base station to a second base station in a wireless network. The instructions included in this computer program are discussed above in relation to the steps of the method illustrated in .

While the invention has been described in connection with various embodiments it will be understood that the invention is capable of further modifications. This application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptation of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as within the known and customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains.

The foregoing disclosure has been set forth merely to illustrate the invention and is not intended to be limiting. Since modifications of the disclosed embodiments incorporating the spirit and substance of the invention may occur to persons skilled in the art the invention should be construed to include everything within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

