---

title: Method and system for producing item comparisons
abstract: A method and system for producing an item comparison may initially include obtaining data based on user activity that is indicative of an item and other items likely to be comparable to the item, and recording the data for later access. An item comparison may thereafter present an item of interest to the user along with other items identified based on the recorded data. Prior to producing the item comparison, the user may be provided at least one list of potentially comparable items that can be selected for the item comparison, the list including items in the recorded data that are likely to be comparable to the item of interest. The recorded data may be specific to the user or may include data obtained from other users. Data reflecting user activity with an item comparison may be recorded as additional data indicative of comparable items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08019650&OS=08019650&RS=08019650
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08019650
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060213
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 041 522 filed Jan. 21 2005 priority from the filing date of which is claimed under 35 U.S.C. 120.

The present invention relates to computer implemented methods and systems for providing item comparisons to users.

With the expanding use of computer networks such as the Internet an increasing amount of commerce is conducted electronically. Online merchants manufacturers and others have made virtually every type of product and service available to consumers via computer networks. Conducting commerce via computer networks is particularly useful because consumers can more easily obtain information regarding items to assist them in their purchasing decisions.

Nevertheless at the present time consumers still face many challenges when they wish to identify review and compare competing items as they make their purchasing decisions. In many circumstances consumers are required to identify and visit multiple information sources such as Web sites to obtain information on different items and further print out information for each of the items to be able to compare the items. An effective comparison of items is sometimes extremely difficult particularly when consumers do not know beforehand the identity of competing items to compare. Even if competing items are all available at a single merchant Web site for example the competing items may not be displayed on the same page or if they are an effective side by side comparison of the items is not provided.

Online merchants manufacturers and others using prior art technologies have attempted to provide consumers with side by side comparisons of items by asking consumers to specify i.e. by checking a checkbox etc. items to compare and then providing a Web page to the consumer displaying the items together on the same page. To facilitate the comparison the consumer is typically presented with a table in which each column of the table is dedicated to an item and each row of the table identifies an attribute shared by the items. Under each item column in the table information is provided to the consumer regarding the attributes of the items.

When providing an item comparison of this type online merchants manufacturers and others will have previously identified and arranged the attributes as they wish them to be displayed to the consumer. Depending on the party doing the arranging certain attributes may be emphasized in that party s self interest without particular consideration to the attributes that truly distinguish the items or attributes that are more important to the consumer. Some comparison tables provide pages and pages of attributes that are difficult for consumers to wade through to identify pertinent distinctions between the compared items. Furthermore as previously noted for a consumer to obtain an item comparison the consumer is required to already know which items are comparable and susceptible to comparison and then designate those items for the comparison. In yet other circumstances a consumer may be given a prearranged comparison table that has been generated and stored by a selling party but such tables are static and possibly biased in that the tables include only those items previously selected by the selling party for the comparison.

What is needed is a system and method that can automatically generate item comparisons that are relevant to the consumer receiving the item comparison and further present the compared items with distinguishing attributes prioritized for the benefit of the consumer. The present invention is directed to systems and methods that address the problems noted above and other shortcomings in the prior art.

Computer implemented methods and apparatus may be used for producing an item comparison that can be presented to users. A potentially valuable data source is one that includes data indicative of items that are likely to be comparable. This data may be derived from a history of prior item comparisons presented to users as well as user interaction with items that is indicative of other comparable items.

According to one exemplary method a computing apparatus records data reflecting items that previously have been presented to a user as being comparable items. A user may thereafter request an item comparison that includes at least one item in the recorded data. In accordance with the method the item comparison includes another item from the recorded data that is identified as being comparable.

In one aspect a second item that is to be compared to a first item may initially be presented to the user. Upon user selection of the second item the second item is included in the item comparison. In another aspect the second item may automatically be included in the item comparison.

The recorded data that reflects comparable items may be specific to the user such that it only includes items that previously have been presented to the user. Alternatively or in addition the recorded data may include items that previously have been presented to other users as being comparable items. The other users may be users in a defined group such as a household an extended family a classroom a club a city or state etc.

In another aspect the items in the recorded data may include one or more attributes such as an item type like books DVDs garden tools digital audio players etc. An item comparison may be preceded by presenting suggested comparable items to the user according to an attribute the items share with the item of interest to the user and upon selection of one or more items by the user the selected items are included in the item comparison.

According to another exemplary method a computing apparatus may produce an item comparison by first obtaining data based on user activity that is indicative of an item and other items likely to be comparable to the item and recording the data for later access. The item comparison may thereafter include an item of interest to a user and other items for comparison to the item of interest wherein the other items for comparison are identified based on the recorded data.

In one aspect the recorded data may be obtained from search results produced in a search conducted by the user. In another aspect the recorded data may be obtained from a product review presented to the user. In yet another aspect the recorded data may be obtained from a list of items prepared by a user. One example of a list of items is a theme list that includes items relating to a defined theme. Another example is a wish list that includes items based on the user s desire to receive the items. Yet another example is a list of items sharing similar tag information. The recorded data is not limited to the foregoing examples and indeed may include any data indicative of comparable items.

Upon presenting an item comparison to a user the user may interact with the item comparison producing additional data that may be considered indicative of comparable items. Such additional data based on user activity with the item comparison may be recorded for later access when producing another item comparison.

For example a user may instruct an item comparison to exclude an item from the comparison. Data may be recorded indicating that the excluded item is less likely to be comparable to the item of interest. As another example a user may instruct an item comparison to show additional comparable items. In one embodiment a list of items is presented to the user enabling the user to select one or more items from the list for the item comparison. Data may be recorded indicating that the selected items are more likely to be comparable to the item of interest.

Other sources of data indicating comparable items may include session histories comprised of items viewed by a user in association with a single session identifier or multiple session identifiers purchase histories comprised of items viewed and purchased by a user and comparison histories comprised of items viewed by a user in a prior item comparison.

As indicated above before presenting an item comparison to a user a list of potentially comparable items may be provided from which the user can select one or more items for the item comparison. In one aspect the list may automatically include items in the recorded data that are likely to be comparable to the item of interest to the user. The list of potentially comparable items may further include items that share a particular attribute. In such case the method further comprise identifying the attribute to the user when providing the list of potentially comparable items to the user.

Other exemplary embodiments discussed herein include a computing system configured to prepare an item comparison comprised of a data storage an item selector and an item comparison manager. The data storage has data recorded therein that is based on user activity with items the data being indicative of items that are comparable. The item selector is configured to identify an item from the data in the data storage for comparison to an item of interest to a user. The item comparison manager is configured to prepare the item comparison and record additional data in the data storage based on user activity with the item comparison.

Further disclosed is a computer accessible medium whose contents direct a computing system to obtain data based on user activity that is indicative of an item and other items likely to be comparable to the item record said data for later access and produce an item comparison that presents an item of interest to the user and other items for comparison to the item of interest. The other items for the item comparison are identified based on the recorded data. Of course yet other embodiments of methods systems and computer accessible media implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art based on the disclosure herein are considered part of the present invention.

The disclosure herein is directed to computer implemented methods and systems that provide automated comparisons of items typically generated in real time when a request for an item comparison is received from a user. Although specific embodiments will now be described with reference to the drawings these embodiments are intended to illustrate and not limit the present invention. For example although the specific embodiments described herein involve the generation and display of data showing a comparison of digital cameras embodiments of the invention may be applied to virtually any other type of items which may include for purposes of illustration and without limitation of any kind products goods apparatus devices services service plans benefit plans and or any other entities having comparable attributes including web sites businesses securities companies people etc. . Moreover method steps described herein may be interchanged with other steps or combination of steps and still achieve the advantages of the present invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention should not be determined from the following description but instead from the claims that follow.

Returning to block in a request for an item comparison may come from a user by explicit or implicit user action or it may come from a computing system that determines it would be helpful to provide an item comparison to the user. The computing system may for example observe a user s activity with respect to browsing of items on the computing system to determine when an item comparison would be helpful.

For example illustrates an exemplary Web browser having a display space for depicting a Web page . The Web page in this example features a list of items that in this case are digital cameras. Each of the digital cameras is shown associated with a control and which in this example are buttons labeled Compare. A user may request an item comparison by actuating any one of the Compare buttons or .

When a request for an item comparison has been received the method proceeds from block to identify a first item for the item comparison as indicated at block in . In some embodiments the first item may be identified by the user in the request for the item comparison. For example in reference to a user may actuate the Compare button that is associated with an item titled PowerPic Camera 3000. In such a circumstance the method may designate the PowerPic Camera 3000 as the first item for purposes of preparing an item comparison.

In other embodiments of the method the first item may be automatically identified by the computing system possibly in reference to a type of item e.g. digital cameras that the user may be browsing or considering when requesting the item comparison. For example the user may be browsing software titles such as antivirus software offered by an online merchant. The online merchant may include a Compare button e.g. similar to the Compare buttons and shown in on a portion of the merchant s Web site featuring antivirus software. User activation of a Compare button on the antivirus software Web page indicates to the computer system that the user desires to receive an item comparison for antivirus software. Based on the type of item indicated by the user here antivirus software the method may select one of the antivirus software titles to be the first item for purposes of preparing the item comparison. Any one of a number of methods may be used to select an item for designation as the first item e.g. by random by highest sales rank by user viewing data by greatest popularity by most favorable user reviews by prior user comparison data etc.

Once the first item for the item comparison is identified the first item may be designated as an anchor item in the item comparison. As will be described in more detail below the process of preparing and providing an item comparison to a user may be iterative wherein for each iteration of the item comparison the anchor item may remain in the item comparison while different items are compared to the anchor item. The anchor item remains in the item comparison until another item is designated as the anchor item.

Regardless of whether the first item is designated as an anchor item the method proceeds at block to identify a set of one or more other items for comparison with the first item. This set of items may be identified in any of a number of ways examples of which are provided herein. The set of items to be compared with the first item also referred to herein as the comparison set of items generally includes items having attributes that are comparable to the attributes of the first item. Furthermore in typical embodiments the items in the comparison set of items are not identified until after the first item is identified. In this manner a real time automated comparison of items can be prepared after an item comparison is initiated.

In some embodiments the comparison set of items may be identified based on data reflecting prior activity of one or more users with a computing system in regard to the items. For example a computing system may operate a merchant Web site that observes activity by users who are viewing the items offered by the merchant. Such user activity may include without limitation click stream data that reflects in whole or in part browsing activity of users. This data may be stored in a browse history that records relationships between the items viewed by the users. A browse history may include such information as click stream and browse data including items actually clicked on by a user items over which the user simply allowed a pointer to hover items otherwise indicated of interest by virtue of user activity etc.

In some embodiments relationships between items may be determined from user activity based on methods and systems described in U.S. Patent Publication No. US 2002 0019763 A1 the 763 publication published Feb. 14 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference. of the 763 publication for instance and corresponding description in the 763 publication describes a process in which items that may be similar or related may be identified. Specifically comparable items are identified by determining items that have been viewed by users in the same session specific browsing histories of the users. An item may be determined comparable to another item when a number of users who viewed the item also viewed the other item during the same browsing session. For purposes of the method described herein the comparison set of items may be identified based on data reflecting items that one or more users have viewed in the same browsing session as the first item identified in block . In one exemplary implementation a session is identified by a session identifier. User activity that occurs in association with the same session identifier may be considered part of the same browsing session. The lifetime of a session identifier can vary. In an online shopping implementation for example rules may be set in which a session identifier terminates after seven days of inactivity if a customer has no items in an electronic shopping cart and after ninety days of inactivity if the customer has items in their cart. Additional rules may start the clock over again if a session has even one element of user activity during the 7 90 day windows. In any event browse histories can be considered a reliable measure of relatedness of items because users viewing items in the same browsing session tend to view items that are related to each other.

Generally it may be desired to limit the analysis of prior user activity to items that belong to a same item category as the first item. For instance users who are viewing computer printer items may also view ink products in the same browsing session. Ink products are not comparable to computer printers for providing item comparisons. Accordingly the analysis described in the 763 publication may be modified to differentiate and exclude prior user activity in regard to items that do not belong to the same category of item as the first item.

Any of a variety of other similarity metrics may be used to identify items for comparison to the first item. In addition or alternative to using browse histories of users to identify comparable items the method may use histories of prior user purchases to identify comparable items. For example the method may analyze data reflecting prior user activity showing one or more other items purchased by users who previously viewed the first item identified in block . Similarly the method may analyze prior user activity showing one or more other items that were viewed by users who purchased the first item. The basis for using purchase histories is that users tend to view comparable items prior to selecting one of the items for purchase. As with user browse history data an analysis of user purchase history data may be limited to data associated with items that belong to a same category of items as the first item. In that manner complementary items such as printers and printer ink that may be viewed and or purchased in the same browsing session can be differentiated.

Another algorithm that may be used to identify one or more items for comparison with the first item may rely on known attributes of the first item. An electronic catalog for example or other collection or database of items may associate attributes with each of the items in the catalog. Items that are comparable to the first item may be identified by analyzing attributes associated with the first item and then selecting one or more other items from the electronic catalog that share like attributes with the first item. Either single attributes or collections of attributes may be used in this algorithm. For example if the first item is a digital camera a collection of attributes such as effective pixels optical zoom and autofocus may be found associated with comparable digital cameras and not other items. The actual values of such like attributes may also be analyzed to identify those items that are most comparable to the first item. A two step process for selecting a candidate set of items for possible comparison with the first item and then selecting a set of one or more comparison items from the candidate set based on like attributes is further described below.

Yet another algorithm that may be used to identify comparable items for comparison with the first item may include searching pages having recognized text in said pages for references to the first item. Those pages having text referencing the first item are then analyzed to identify other items referenced in relation to the first item. A filter may be applied to the resultant identified items to capture those items that belong to a same item category as the first item.

Either individual pages or collections of pages may be used in this algorithm. For example a magazine article may review an item and reference several competing items in the same article. The pages of the magazine article having been stored in a database of pages are searched to identify those pages that reference the first item. Comparable items are then derived from analyzing the text of the pages on which the first item is referenced and possibly other associated pages e.g. pages belonging to a same magazine article etc. .

U.S. Patent Publication No. 2005 0076012 published Apr. 7 2005 the 012 publication commonly owned with the present application and incorporated by reference herein describes a computer system having access to images of printed pages such as the pages of books magazines manuals documents articles newsletters newspapers journals etc. whether originating on paper or in electronic printed form. According to the processes described therein the text in the page images may be subjected to a recognition process such as an optical character recognition process to produce recognized text. The recognized text of each page is associated with the page image from which it comes and is indexed to enable searching of the text in the page images. Embodiments of the invention that search pages in this manner in addition or alternative to searching pages as previously described are often able to search a wider base of information and identify comparable items. Further information concerning other features of searching page images as described above is found in the 012 publication.

Searching of pages to identify comparable items may further include searching pages available at multiple sites on a computer network such as the Internet or other global wide area or local area networks. Such pages available on a computer network may include but are not limited to word processing documents Web pages documents in portable document format etc. Pages available at the multiple sites on a computer network are searched to identify those pages that reference the first item. The pages that reference the first item are then analyzed to identify other items referenced in relation to the first item. In some embodiments other items may be considered as referenced in relation to the first item if the other items are referenced in the same page as the first item or in pages related to the page on which the first item is referenced e.g. in a same magazine article .

Yet another process that can be used to identify items for comparison with a first item may be based on prior item comparisons presented to the user or to other users. Data from prior item comparisons may indicate items that were identified as comparable in an automated comparison process as described herein or a manual comparison process in which a user selects items for an item comparison. In reference to discussed in greater detail below a user activity database may be used to record data reflecting the items that were previously presented to the user as being comparable items. This data may be accessed later when preparing another item comparison for the user or for other users.

If desired identifying a set of one or more other items for comparison with a first item may be performed in multiple steps. For example in some embodiments identifying a comparison set of items may first involve selecting a candidate set of items for possible comparison with the first item and then from the candidate set selecting the comparison set of items. Algorithms that cast a wider net may be used to select the candidate items for possible comparison with the first item. Filters such as item categories may be applied to the outcome of the algorithm s to limit the candidate set of items to a maximum number of items e.g. 10 or 20 items for example.

Generally the items in the candidate set of items are selected for being more comparable to the first item than other items. For instance items in the candidate set of items may be selected based on measuring like attributes of the items and selecting those items having attributes that collectively are more similar to the attributes of the first item than other items. In other instances items in the candidate set of items may be drawn from prior recorded data indicative of an item and other items that are likely to be comparable to the item. One example discussed herein is a user activity database that includes data representing prior user activity with items descriptions of items comparisons of items etc. This user activity is indicative of items that were previously considered by the user or by others to be comparable.

In a second step of the process the items in the candidate set of items are analyzed to select one or more items for actual comparison with the first item. A similarity metric such as one measuring similar attributes values may be used to more tightly identify those items in the candidate set that are most similar to the first item. In this manner the comparison set of items that is actually compared to the first item in the item comparison may be limited to a desired number such as two or three items for example.

Some attributes of an item may generally be considered more or less important to users than other attributes. For example most if not all digital cameras will come with a strap that the user can use to secure the camera to their arm or neck. Accordingly users may consider a strap attribute to be less important than say the price or effective number of pixels of the digital camera. Accordingly in some embodiments attributes of items may be weighted such that attributes having greater weight will have a greater influence for selection of the item than attributes having lesser weight.

A weighting of attributes may be applied in both the first step described above for selecting a candidate set of items as well as the second step described above for selecting a comparison set of items. The weighting of attributes may be determined manually by human operators who designate attribute weights based on knowledge of user interests. Alternatively or in addition weighting of attributes may be determined programmatically by the computing system e.g. by observing prior user activity tending to indicate attributes that are likely more important to users. For example browse data including user search queries click streams and pointer activity may be examined to identify those attributes of the items that are more frequently searched clicked on or pointed to when users are browsing items. More frequently searched clicked or pointed to attributes may be considered more important and thus given greater weight. In one basic application weighting of attributes may be accomplished by assigning numerical values that are included in a numerical evaluation of the items attributes. Examples of numerical evaluations of attributes are described later herein.

Alternatively or in addition weighting factors may be applied to items based on prior user interaction with the items and considered when later identifying a candidate set of items or selecting a comparison set of items. As with identifying a candidate set of items a process of narrowing the candidate set of items to a produce a comparison set of items may employ data that has been recorded as a result of prior user activity with items descriptions of items prior comparisons of items etc. This data is typically considered indicative of items that are likely to be comparable. When producing an item comparison weighting factors can be taken into account to direct greater attention to certain items over other items for the item comparison.

For example a user presented with an item comparison may instruct the item comparison to exclude one or more of the items from the item comparison. See e.g. the discussion provided below in regard to . Data including weighting factors can be recorded to indicate that the excluded item is less likely to be comparable to the item of interest than other items. Accordingly when producing an item comparison at a later time for the user or for other users and the item comparison includes the same item of interest previously presented to the user the later item comparison will be less likely to include the item that was excluded from the earlier item comparison.

As another example a user presented with an item comparison may instruct the item comparison to show more products in relation to a particular item. The item comparison may provide the user with a list of items from which the user can select one or more of the items for comparison. Data including weighting factors can be recorded to indicate that the selected items are more likely to be comparable to the item of interest than other items. Accordingly when producing an item comparison at a later time for the user or for other users and the item comparison includes the same item of interest previously presented to the user the later item comparison will more likely include the other items previously selected the by the user.

In another aspect of the method once the items in the comparison set i.e. those items to be provided in an item comparison to the user are identified a prioritization process may be applied to the attributes in the item comparison as indicated at block in . In the prior art consumers given item comparisons typically must wade through several pages of attributes and analyze each attribute to identify those attributes that truly distinguish the compared items from each other. Such distinguishing attributes may be buried within a display of other attributes that do not distinguish the items from each other. A further improvement to the automated item comparison described above is provided by sorting the attributes of the items in the item comparison to emphasize those attributes that better distinguish the compared items from each other.

In some embodiments attributes that distinguish the items more from each other are arranged to appear higher in a list of attributes provided to the user in the item comparison. Prioritizing the attributes of the first item and the other items in the comparison set may include measuring like attributes of the items and arranging the attributes in an order according to the degree the like attributes distinguish the items from each other. Additional detail regarding example processes for prioritizing attributes of items is provided below in connection with a description of the sample item comparison shown in . The item comparison with the prioritized attributes is then provided to the user as indicated at block of .

Before discussing the sample item comparison shown in it is helpful to consider an example of a computing environment in which methods such as method shown in may be implemented. illustrates one exemplary computing environment that includes a variety of user devices and connected to a network . The network may be a local area network wide area network or global network such as the Internet. The user devices are each configured to allow users operating the devices to request and receive item comparisons as described herein via the network . Although exemplary user devices such as a PC and PDA have been illustrated in persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any range or type of portable or non portable device may be used. Furthermore it will be appreciated that indicators of user activity other than positioning movement or clicking of a mouse pointer can be used in embodiments of the invention.

A front end server shown connected to the network receives an item comparison request from a user and in turn prepares and provides an item comparison in accordance with the request. The front end server may be configured to communicate with users operating the user devices using any of a variety of communication protocols including hypertext transfer protocol and file transfer protocol. In a Web environment the front end server may be configured with program instructions that when executed cause the front end server to prepare and provide item comparisons in the form of Web pages that are delivered and displayed to users on the user devices .

A back end server is shown operatively connected to the front end server . In some embodiments the front end server and the back end server may be physically embodied into separate server systems and in other embodiments the servers and may be combined in a single computing apparatus. For purposes of this example the back end server is depicted separately for providing back end services to the front end server for preparing and providing item comparisons to users. In the course of preparing and providing an item comparison at the instruction of the front end server the back end server may access search and analyze information contained in electronic databases such as an item catalog and a user activity database stored in a memory. In this example the item catalog is assumed to include a collection of information on items wherein each item has an associated set of attributes. The user activity database is assumed in this example to include information concerning prior user activity with the front end server and back end server including browse histories purchase histories and comparison histories of users.

The item comparison manager in this example is responsible for managing the processes in the back end server for preparing the requested item comparison. In a manner as discussed above the item comparison manager may initially identify the first item to which other items are to be selected and compared. Given the identity of the first item and possibly attributes of the first item the item comparison manager interacts with an item selector to identify and select the items to be compared to the first item. The item selector may generate search queries and search the item catalog to identify items that are comparable to the first item. After comparable items are identified to the item comparison manager the item comparison manager may record additional data in the user activity database indicating the comparable items. This data may be based on the user s interaction with the item comparison and may be recorded either directly by the item comparison manager or indirectly through the item selector .

Identifying comparable items may be accomplished in multiple steps as described above. For example in a first step the item selector may query the item catalog to identify a candidate set of items for possible comparison to the first item. The item selector then analyzes the candidate set of items to identify a comparison set of one or more items that are actually compared to the first item and provided to the user.

Also as earlier described prior user activity with respect to the items being compared may be consulted to identify comparable items. For example the item selector may analyze browse histories or purchase histories stored in the user activity database to identify and select items that are comparable to the first item in the item comparison.

Once the comparison set of one or more items is identified and selected the item comparison manager may interact with an attribute prioritizer that prioritizes the attributes of the first item and the comparison items for presentation to the user. Using processes as described herein the attribute prioritizer may analyze data in the user activity database to identify those attributes of the items that may be more important to users and give greater weight to those attributes when prioritizing the attributes. As will be described below attributes may be prioritized by programmatically measuring like attributes of the items against each other and arranging the attributes for presentation to the user in an order according to the degree the like attributes distinguish the items from each other.

Persons having ordinary skill in computer processing will recognize that the functions of the item comparison manager the item selector and the attribute prioritizer may be implemented using any one of a variety of computer languages to code instructions that when executed in a computing system such as the back end server cause the server to carry out the intended functions.

In yet another embodiment a computer system may be provided that includes a front end server an item comparison manager an item selector and an attribute prioritizer . The front end server is configured to receive a request for an item comparison. The item comparison manager is configured in communication with the front end server and with the item selector for preparing the item comparison wherein two or more items are identified for the item comparison. The attribute prioritizer is configured to programmatically determine an order in which comparable attributes of the identified items are presented based on the attributes such that including a different item in the item comparison can result in a different prioritized order of the attributes as discussed below. If desired the item comparison may be prepared and provided to a user in real time after the front end server receives the item comparison request. The item comparison manager and the item selector together with the attribute prioritizer in some embodiments comprise a comparison engine that is configured to prepare and provide an item comparison. The item comparison manager may also be configured to store data reflecting item comparisons that have been provided to the user and to other users for example in the user activity database depicted in .

In this example the automated comparison process of the invention has identified and selected two other items shown in a second column and a third column for comparison with the first item . The second item in this example is shown titled FineShot X Camera while the third item is shown titled AllPro Digicamera . Respective images of the items in the item comparison table may be featured at reference numeral on the Web page . Below the item titles indicated at reference numeral is a listing of like attributes shared by each of the items and . In this particular example the attributes include price size effective pixels optical zoom digital zoom LCD screen and autofocus . The item comparison table may include many other attributes that can be seen by scrolling down the Web page using the scroll bar shown in .

As can be seen the items in the comparison table shown in are presented in a side by side horizontal orientation. In other embodiments the items may be presented in a vertical orientation perhaps with the attributes listed in columns adjacent to the items being compared. In embodiments where a first item or anchor item is identified and then other items are identified for comparison the comparison table may present the first item or anchor item first followed by the other items in a horizontal or vertical orientation.

Unlike prior art item comparisons in which attributes are presented in a static and typically unarranged or biased fashion item comparisons provided by embodiments of the present invention may include prioritized attributes that emphasize those attributes that depending on criteria used better serve to distinguish the items from each other. The prioritization is generally based on criteria that are more objective and thus limits or removes bias that is found in prior art comparisons.

As previously noted a variety of ways may be used to emphasize certain attributes over others. For example in some embodiments attributes in an item comparison are shown arranged in an order according to the degree the attributes distinguish the items from each other. In the example of attributes such as price size and effective pixels have been arranged to appear higher in the list than other attributes in the item comparison because those attributes are determined to distinguish the items from each other more than the other attributes.

Any of a variety of algorithms may be used to measure like attributes of items against each other for purposes of determining the degree that the attributes tend to distinguish the items from each other. In one suitable algorithm a numerical analysis of the attributes is performed by assessing a distance between the attributes. The distances may be used to provide scores for comparison. If desired the distance assessments may be normalized. There are many distance measuring functions and algorithms known in the art especially in clustering literature that may be used in this aspect of the invention. Persons having ordinary skill in the art will recognize suitable functions and algorithms that may use entropy criteria information gain gain ratios gini index KL distances and or J measures. Embodiments of the invention can also use methods for attribute selection e.g. as used in decision trees. Attributes that are not already in numeric form may have numeric values assigned to them if desired e.g. attributes in Yes No form may have a value of 1 assigned to Yes attributes and a value of 0 assigned to No attributes .

One exemplary illustration of a process for determining normalized distances between attributes and forming scores therefrom is described as follows. Items in a certain range of items such as items identified in a candidate set of items as previously described may be analyzed to determine a range of values that an attribute of the items may cover. For example a candidate set of digital camera items for possible comparison with the PowerPic Camera 3000 shown in may include prices that range from 349 to 799.

Each range of attributes may be normalized to a score of 0 100 for example. Item prices in the range of 349 to 799 may thus be assigned a score according to the distance of the prices from each other within the price range.

In this example the AllPro Digicamera having a price of 349 that matches the low end of the price range receives a score of 0 for its price attribute. The price attribute for the FineShot X Camera matching the high end of the price range at 799 receives a score of 100 for its price attribute. The PowerPic Camera 3000 having a price attribute of 569 receives a score of 48 for its price attribute. The score of 48 is calculated in this example by subtracting the low end of the price range 349 from the 569 price of the camera . The result of the subtraction is then divided by the distance of the entire range that is the value of 799 the high end of the range minus 349 the low end of the range . The result of this division is then multiplied by 100. Stated otherwise for this example 569 349 799 349 100 48.

In a like manner normalized distances may be calculated for other attributes to form similar scores in a range of 0 100 for each of the attributes. For example turning to the effective pixels attribute it may be that the digital cameras in the candidate set of items from which the compared items and were selected cover a range of 4 megapixels to 8 megapixels MP . Using a calculation as described above for the price attribute the effective pixels attribute for the first item that is 6 MP receives a score of 50 while the effective pixels attribute for the second item 8 MP and the third item 7.3 MP receive scores of 100 and 82.5 respectively. As to the latter score for the third item for example the score is calculated as follows 7.3 MP 4 MP 8MP 4MP 100 82.5.

For attributes such as size a numeric value for the attribute may be determined based on the cubic size of the item that is the product of the width height and depth dimensions provided by the size attribute of the items. In this particular example the first item has a cubic size of 13.728 the second item has a cubic size of 63.336 and the third item has a cubic size of 24.696. Using those cubic values in a calculation as described above given a cubic size of items in the candidate set of items for this comparison ranging from 10 to 70 for example a score of 6.2 is calculated for the first item while scores of 88.9 and 24.5 are calculated for the second item and third item respectively.

Turning to the remaining attributes in the item comparison of applying a similar calculation as described above and given example attribute ranges of 3 8 for the optical zoom attribute 0 4 for the digital zoom attribute 1.8 2.2 for the LCD screen attribute and 0 1 for the autofocus attribute 0 signifying No and 1 signifying Yes scores for the remaining attributes may be calculated as follows 0 60 0 respectively for the optical zoom attribute of the first item second item and third item 50 0 75 respectively for the digital zoom attribute of the items 0 50 0 respectively for the LCD screen attribute of the items and 100 100 100 respectively for the autofocus attribute of the items .

With scores that are indicative of a normalized distance between the attributes of the items in the item comparison which may be calculated by methods described above or other methods a meaningful comparison of like attributes for prioritization of the attributes can be performed. In one basic embodiment for each like attribute of the items the attributes are prioritized based on the difference between the scores of the second and third items from the first item . Those attributes having a greater difference in scores compared to the first item are considered in this example to be better able to distinguish the items from each other.

In the example of the price score of 100 assigned to the second item and the price score of 0 assigned to the third item collectively have a greater difference from the price score 48 assigned to the first item than the difference in scores of the other attributes in the item comparison. Accordingly the price attribute is arranged highest in the order of attributes in the item comparison Web page . The user receiving the item comparison will consider that attribute first.

The size attribute is arranged next in the order of attributes in the item comparison because the collective difference between the size attribute scores assigned to the second item that is 88.9 and the third item that is 24.5 from the score of the first item that is 6.2 is greater than the collective difference of the scores of the attributes below it. This arranging of attributes in an order according to the degree the attributes distinguish the items from each other may continue until the item comparison reaches attributes having identical scores such as the autofocus attribute . Attributes having identical scores are generally considered to have the least ability to distinguish the items from each other and thus are arranged lower in the order of attributes.

The ordering of attributes in an item comparison provided to a user may be adjusted by assigning weights to the attributes such that attributes having greater weight will have greater influence on the ordering the attributes than attributes having lesser weight. In that regard for example for digital cameras it may be recognized that users consider the effective pixels attribute to be more important than other attributes regardless of the ability of that attribute to distinguish the compared items. With appropriate weighting of the scores assigned to the effective pixels attribute for the items the effective pixels attribute may appear higher in the list of attributes even though the collective difference between the scores of the compared items from the first item may be lower than that of other attributes. In some cases the effective pixels attribute may have the same attribute value for each of the items yet with appropriate weighting the effective pixels attribute may appear higher in the list of attributes in the item comparison. Weights may be assigned to attributes in the form of numerical values or other ordered indicators of importance.

For purposes of weighting attributes the relative importance or value of item attributes may in some embodiments be determined by analyzing data that reflects prior user activity with items of the type shown in the item comparison or other data such as item reviews sales ranking item description pages etc. which may be stored in one or more local or remote repositories. Attributes tending to be more popular with users or subject to more frequent searching for example may be considered more important or valuable to users and hence eligible for greater weighting when the item attributes are prioritized at block . Weights may be assigned to attributes manually or automatically in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

It should also be recognized that the attributes identified in are exemplary only. Numerous other attributes may be shown. Furthermore other types of items will have different attributes associated therewith that may form part of an item comparison produced in accordance with the present invention. In addition other attributes such as attributes related to user behavior or commercial success of an item may be shown. For example an item comparison e.g. as shown in may include People Who Viewed This Item Actually Purchased It followed by numbers such as 72 10 and 92 respectively under each of the columns for the items . As another example an item comparison may include Sales Rank among comparable items followed by numbers such as 1 4 and 2 respectively under each of the columns for the items . The item comparison may also combine attributes that are all shared by the compared items such as by indicating All have . . . Carrying case Yes Strap Yes Shutter Speed Range 30 sec to 1 1000 sec Interchangeable Lenses No .

Returning now to after the attributes of the first item and the comparison set of items have been prioritized block the item comparison with the prioritized attributes is provided to the user as indicated at block . The item comparison may be provided to the user in any format such as a Web page e.g. Web page shown in word processing document spreadsheet document etc.

The method in depicts an additional optional step in which feedback regarding the item comparison is received from the user as indicated at block . Such feedback from the user may be a simple response indicating whether the item comparison was useful or it may be a type of response that causes the method to prepare and provide a modified item comparison to the user.

In regard to the former data may be recorded in the user activity database that enhances the likelihood that future item comparisons that include an item in the present comparison are more likely to include one or more of the other items in the present comparison. Weighting factors as previously discussed herein may be recorded with respect to the items in the comparison that the user found useful and applied at a later time when identifying items that are comparable to an item of interest.

In regard to the latter that is when the method prepares a modified item comparison for example the user may click on and thereby designate another item to be the first item see with which other items are compared. In that case the method takes the newly designated first item and automatically returns to block to identify a set of other items for comparison with the newly designated first item . Automated processes for preparing and providing an item comparison based on the newly designated first item may proceed as earlier described in regard to blocks and .

In other circumstances the feedback received at block from the user may indicate an attribute of interest to the user. For example the user may click on or otherwise indicate an attribute of interest in the item comparison Web page provided to the user. Referring to for instance a user may click on or hover over the optical zoom attribute . The method may then designate the optical zoom attribute as an attribute of interest. Such action may result in weighting the attribute and then re generating a new item comparison in which the comparison set of other items is modified to include items that are most similar to the first item with respect to the optical zoom attribute . In this example where the first item has an optical zoom attribute of 3 a modified item comparison may be generated in which the comparison items items have the same or similar optical zoom attribute.

In yet other circumstances the feedback received from the user at block may indicate an attribute of interest after which the item comparison provided to the user is modified to emphasize the attribute of interest. As described earlier emphasis of an attribute may be accomplished by weighting the attribute so that it appears higher in the order of attributes. In yet other embodiments an attribute of interest may be emphasized by some other designation such as bolding the text of the attribute or placing an icon or image next to the attribute etc.

In another aspect items may be selected for the item comparison based on prior user activity data e.g. as stored in the user activity database . The items in the recorded data may include one or more attributes such as an item type like books DVDs garden tools digital audio players etc. Items identified from prior user activity may be presented to the user as shown at block in . In this example block depicts Recent Activity for the user and includes links to lists of items that may have been presented to considered by compared by or otherwise related to the user and his or her interaction with the system. In some embodiments the recent activity may also include user activity data of other users. As depicted at reference numeral in this example the user can select from a list of five DVD players three items of cutlery and or seven books. Items selected from these lists may be added to the current item comparison or may serve as a first item or anchor item for a new item comparison.

In another embodiment an item comparison may be preceded by presenting suggested comparable items to the user according to an attribute the items share with the item of interest to the user. For example a user viewing a book item who requests an item comparison may be presented a list of comparable books. In this case the shared attribute is the items being books. Upon selection of one or more of the books by the user the selected items may then be included in the item comparison. Advantageously an embodiment may draw upon the user s activity data stored in the user activity database to identify comparable books that the user has previously considered. If the list of comparable books presented to the user includes previously considered books the list may be more relevant and valuable to the user.

In some embodiments an anchor item may be selected based on an anchor descriptor that identifies a set or category of items from which the anchor item is selected. The anchor descriptor may be static or dynamic in how it is defined. While in these embodiments the anchor descriptor generally remains constant until replaced by another anchor descriptor the actual anchor item selected for the item comparison may change from one item comparison to the next.

At block the method selects a candidate set of items for possible comparison to the anchor item after which a comparison set of items is selected in block for actual comparison to the anchor item. As previously described in regard to block an algorithm for determining comparable items that casts a wider net may be used in block to select the candidate set of items and another algorithm may be applied in block to the candidate set of items to narrow down and select the comparison set of items.

Once the comparison set of items is selected in block the attributes for the anchor item and the comparison set of items are prioritized in block after which the item comparison with the prioritized attributes is provided to the user in block . As with the method shown in the method shown in may optionally receive feedback from the user in block . Such feedback may cause the method to repeat actions discussed above in blocks to prepare and provide modified item comparisons to the user based on the feedback received.

According to some embodiments of the present invention a user is not required to identify competing items for a comparison prior to requesting an item comparison. With the actuation of a single control such as clicking on a Compare button shown in or other single user action an automated process may generate typically in real time a comparison of comparable items and provide the item comparison to the user. A single click Compare button could appear by way of illustration on an item detail Web page on a search results page with a listing of items on a popup window that may appear when the user s cursor hovers over an item description with a list of items provided to the user for other reasons etc. If the user decides that he or she wishes to see other items in the item comparison the user may provide feedback e.g. by clicking on an attribute of interest that causes a modified item comparison to be prepared and provided to the user. The item comparison Web page provided to the user in may also include controls for each of the items such as the Exclude buttons which the user may actuate to replace one or more of the depicted items from the item comparison. If the user clicks on the Exclude button for an anchor item one of the other items in the item comparison may automatically be designated as a new anchor item for the comparison. Alternatively a completely different item may be designated as the new anchor item. The excluded item is then removed from the item comparison Web page and a new item comparison with different compared items is generated and provided to the user.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a user clicking on an attribute or hovering a mouse pointer over an attribute for a determined period of time may receive additional information explaining why the attribute may be considered important. Such additional information may appear in a popup window or other interface displayed to the user. This additional information may include a histogram illustrating a distribution of items considered in the item comparison across the range of values for the particular attribute. In that manner the user may observe whether the items shown in the comparison have an attribute that is unique to the items or is shared with a large number of other items. This additional information may be provided to the user as an interstitial step before continuing to modify the item comparison with an emphasis on the attribute of interest. A separate control such as a button may be provided for the user to actuate to continue with the modified item comparison. Alternatively the modified comparison may be provided automatically after a period time has elapsed.

In still another embodiment of the invention a user may be presented with an interface that allows the user to select the algorithms or parameters thereof used to produce the item comparison. Typically such an interface would be provided only to users indicating an advanced ability to configure the item comparison process. Some algorithms for selecting comparable items may cast a wider net as previously described while other algorithms may be tuned for selecting items having attributes in certain ranges. An interface such as a drop down box may enable a user to indicate an algorithm of interest. Separate drop down boxes may be provided for example for each of the processes that selects a candidate set of items for possible comparison selects a comparison set of items for actual comparison and prioritizes attributes of the comparison set for the item comparison.

Further embodiments of the invention may be constructed to address circumstances in which a user desires to compare two or more specific items. Although prior art approaches such as providing check boxes associated with the items of interest may be used to designate the items for comparison automated item comparison processes of the invention may consider the other actions of a user to identify the items the user desires to compare.

For example a circumstance may occur in which a user clicks on a Compare button for item A and while item B may be included in the candidate set of items for possible comparison with item A it is not included in the smaller set of comparison items actually compared to item A. Suppose then the user continues to browse the items and sees item B with an associated Compare button. If the user clicks on the Compare button for item B an automated item comparison process may assume that the user is interested in both items A and B. The process thereafter ensures that item A is included in the comparison set of items actually compared with item B.

In another circumstance a user may browse information regarding item A and later click on a Compare button associated with item B. Again an automated item comparison process could assume that the user is interested in both items A and B and thereafter ensure that item A is included in the comparison set of items actually compared with item B. The amount of time taken and or the number of pages viewed to browse information regarding item A may be relevant in this regard.

An item comparison Web page may include a further control such as a See More link shown in that provides greater control over the items shown in the item comparison. For instance actuating the See More link may cause an interface to appear to the user showing some or all of the items in the candidate set of items selected for possible comparison. As previously discussed herein a candidate set of items may be drawn from data that records a user s prior browsing or purchasing activity or prior item comparisons presented to the user. By associating appropriate controls such as check boxes with the list of items shown to the user the user may designate one or more particular items to be added or substituted in the item comparison Web page .

As an alternative the Exclude buttons shown in may be configured to not only remove the item associated with the particular Exclude button that was clicked on but also provide the user an interface listing the items in the candidate set of items that allows the user to designate a particular item to replace the item being excluded or possibly designate other candidate items to be sure are excluded . The item comparison Web page would then be prepared with the substituted item shown in the item comparison. Prioritizing of the attributes shown in the Web page may be performed after substituting a new item in the item comparison.

As described earlier the first item may be designated an anchor item that remains in the item comparison Web page until a new anchor item is designated. An additional feature may be added to embodiments of the invention in which each of the items for example have a lock icon or other control that a user may actuate to indicated that a certain item should be locked into the item comparison table. In this manner while the first item may remain an anchor item to which the other items are compared one or more of the other items may be locked into the table so that when a modified item comparison is run only the unlocked item s may be replaced with other comparable item s .

In still other embodiments an item comparison may automatically be generated and provided to a user without receiving a user request for the comparison. A user interface or algorithm observing a user s activity may programmatically identify circumstances in which an item comparison would appear to be helpful or desired by a user and automatically proceed to provide the comparison.

It should also be recognized that the present disclosure includes embodiments in the form of a computer accessible medium having contents that cause a computer system to undertake actions described herein. For instance one embodiment of a computer accessible medium may cause a computer system to receive a request for an item comparison and prepare the item comparison by identifying a first item for the item comparison identifying a set of one or more other items for comparison with the first item and programmatically determining an order of attributes of the first item and the other items in the comparison set based on the attributes such that including a different item in the comparison set can result in a different prioritized order of the attributes. The item comparison is then provided to a user with the prioritized order of attributes. If desired the contents of the computer accessible medium may cause the computer system to prepare and provide the item comparison to a user in real time after receiving the item comparison request. Another embodiment of a computer accessible medium may direct a computing system to obtain data based on user activity that is indicative of an item and other items likely to be comparable to the item record said data for later access and produce an item comparison for a user. In this embodiment the item comparison may present an item of interest to the user and other items for comparison to the item of interest wherein the other items for comparison are identified based on the recorded data.

In some embodiments the input component may be accessible via an application programming interface API that enables a third party in communication with a user device to access the input component and provide information representing an action by the user. Alternatively or in addition the output component may be accessible via an API that enables a third party in communication with the user device to access the output component and receive the item comparison. As with the comparison table illustrated in the output component may provide an item comparison in which the items in the comparison are identified side by side with their attributes presented in a prioritized order.

In operation the input component may receive information representing user actuation of a mechanism e.g. a single user action that initiates an automated comparison of items in accordance with embodiments disclosed or suggested herein. The item comparison may be produced without requiring the user to identify all of the items in the item comparison. Examples of a mechanism that may be used in this regard without limitation include a button and a link that a user may actuate for an automated item comparison. A non limiting example is illustrated by the Compare buttons shown in .

The processing component of the interface may further be configured to produce a modified item comparison particularly in response to feedback from a user device . For example information representing a single user action may indicate user interest in an attribute of the items in the item comparison. In response thereto the processing component may produce a modified item comparison that emphasizes the attribute of interest. Alternatively or in addition the processing component may be configured to produce a modified item comparison when a user by way of information representing a single user action indicates user interest in an item in the comparison set. In that regard the item of interest may becomes the first item for the item comparison and thereafter the processing component identifies a new comparison set of one or more other items for comparison with the first item. The processing component also determines a new order of attributes based on an analysis of the attributes of the items in the modified item comparison.

From a user perspective an embodiment may implement a method for an item comparison that includes from a client device providing to a comparison engine an identification of a first item. In response to a single action of a user of the client device a signal may be provided to the comparison engine to prepare an item comparison based on the first item. The client device thereafter receives from the comparison engine a comparison of a set of items that includes the first item and one or more other items. The comparison includes the items in the set and a prioritized order of attributes of the items in the set.

The comparison engine is configured to programmatically select the one or more other items in the set and the prioritized order of comparison attributes in response to the signal. If desired the item comparison may be initiated without requiring the user to acknowledge a criterion used by the comparison engine to programmatically select the one or more other items for the item comparison.

In response to a further single action of the user indicating an attribute of interest the method may further comprise providing to the comparison engine a signal to prepare a modified item comparison. The modified item comparison may include one or more other items programmatically selected by the comparison engine based on at least the attribute of interest.

In yet another embodiment a method for an item comparison may include identifying a first item for an item comparison and using multiple criteria programmatically selecting a comparison set of one or more other items for comparison with the first item. The item comparison may be produced for output to a user without prior user acknowledgement of the criteria used to identify the one or more other items in the item comparison. Programmatic selection of items using criteria not acknowledged in advance by the user allows the criteria to differ from one item to another and from one item comparison to another. Moreover the criteria to be used may be automatically chosen before or after the item comparison is initiated.

In some cases the first item in the item comparison may be identified by a user. In other cases the first item may be automatically identified from a type of item indicated by user activity.

As noted above multiple criteria may be used to programmatically select the one or more other items for comparison with the first item. The multiple criteria may include but are not limited to a criterion that selects items based on data reflecting user activity in regard to the items a criterion that selects items based on a sales ranking of the items a criterion that selects items based on a search of pages for reference to the first item and for reference to other items in relation to the first item and a criterion that selects items based on item attributes that collectively are most similar to attributes of the first item. In regard to the latter criterion the attributes may be weighted such that attributes having a greater weight will have greater influence for selection of the items than attributes having lesser weight.

As to a criterion that selects items based on data reflecting user activity the data may include but are not limited to a browse history comprised of a record of items viewed by one or more users who also viewed the first item a purchase history comprised of a record of items purchased by one or more users who previously viewed the first item a purchase history comprised of a record of items viewed or purchased by one or more users who previously purchased the first item and other data histories that reflect user association of items that are likely to be comparable. In some cases where desired the data reflecting user activity may be limited in some regard such as to user activity in regard to items identified as belonging to a same category of items to which the first item belongs. The data reflecting user activity may also be recorded and accessed on an individual user basis or the data may include user activity from multiple users. In some cases the multiple users may be organize or other categorized in a defined group such as a household an extended family a classroom a club a city or state etc.

Data reflecting user activity may further include lists of items that are prepared by users. For example in one aspect a user may prepare and disseminate a theme list that includes items all relating to a particular theme. The theme may be chosen by the user or suggested by a computing system a web site or the like. In another aspect a user may prepare and disseminate a wish list that includes items that the user desires to receive e.g. for a birthday holiday wedding or other special event . In yet another aspect lists may be created in real time using attributes such as tags. For example users or systems may assign tag information to items. Later a user may request a list of items having a particular tag assigned thereto. In summary lists of items may be considered data that reliably indicates an association between the items whether the association is for a particular user or for users at large and such data may be useful when identifying comparable items for an item comparison.

As with other embodiments described herein the foregoing method may further comprise measuring like attributes of the items in the comparison set against each other and arranging the attributes for presentation to a user in an order according to a degree that the like attributes distinguish the items from each other. Alternatively or additionally the method may further comprise analyzing data that reflects prior user activity to determine user interest in an attribute of an item and thereafter produce the item comparison in which an attribute determined to be of greater interest is emphasized. In some cases the attribute of greater user interest may be emphasized in the item comparison by arranging the attribute to appear higher in an order of the attributes. Furthermore as with other embodiments described herein the items in the comparison set may be selected in real time after receiving a request for the item comparison.

It should further be recognized that the item comparison features discussed herein are not limited to a context in which a user is initiating an item comparison. A user may already have an item comparison currently being presented which includes a group of items and still desire to add one or more other items to the item comparison. In such case an item of interest may be selected from the group and one or more other items may be identified from the user activity data as comparable to the item of interest. These other items may be added to the item comparison.

In some circumstances a user may desire an item comparison that includes items that are comparable not to an actual item but to a hypothetical item derived from a group of items. For instance in the above example where a user already has a group of items in an item comparison but desires to add one or more other items to the comparison a hypothetical item may be derived as a composite that represents the group of items. In one embodiment attributes that are shared by items in the group may be evaluated for similarity. A hypothetical item may be generated having attributes that represent a composite one example being an average of the shared attributes. In another embodiment a hypothetical item may be generated having attributes that represent a composite of predominant attributes. For example attributes that are more similar across the items in the group and or have more significant weighting factors assigned thereto may be considered predominant attributes. The hypothetical item may then be considered as an item of interest for which comparable items are identified and possibly added to the user s item comparison. Generating and using a hypothetical item in this manner may be particularly helpful if a user has difficulty identifying any one item that represents what the user wants in an item comparison.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to various specific embodiments thereof. While several embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described above it will be appreciated that various additions and alternatives can be employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example depicts yet another method that may be performed by a computer system in accordance with the present invention. The method begins at block by recording data that is indicative of comparable items. In one instance the data may reflect items that previously have been presented to a user as being comparable e.g. in an item comparison. In another instance the data may be based on user activity that is indicative of an item and other items likely to be comparable to the item. Browse histories purchase histories and comparison histories for users may contribute such data.

At block a request for an item comparison is received after which items for the item comparison are identified as indicated at block . For example the item comparison request may include an item of interest to the user and this item may be indicated in the recorded data. If so the recorded data may include further data that is indicative of other items comparable to the item of interest. One or more items indicated in the recorded data as being comparable to the item of interest may be included in the item comparison. At block the item comparison including the identified items is produced for the user.

As noted earlier the data recorded at block may be specific to the user such that it only includes items previously presented to the user. Alternatively or in addition the recorded data may include items that have previously been presented to other users as being comparable items. The other users may be users in a defined group.

By obtaining data based on user activity that is indicative of an item and other items likely to be comparable to the item and recording the data for later access an item comparison produced thereafter may include items based on the recorded data that are more relevant or valuable to the user.

Data indicating comparable items may be obtained from any one of a number of sources. For example an embodiment may obtain data based on search results produced in a search conducted by a user. General Internet searching may yield useful results as would specialized searching such as provided by web sites that offer comparative shopping services.

In another embodiment data may be obtained from a product review presented to the user. It is frequent that a product review will include commentary as to comparable items.

In yet another embodiment the recorded data may be obtained from a list of items prepared by a user. As discussed earlier an example of a list of items may be a theme list that includes items relating to a defined theme. Another example is a wish list that includes items based on the user s desire to receive the items. Yet another example is a list of items sharing similar tag information.

Upon producing an item comparison for a user as indicated at block in the item comparison may be presented to the user. The user may thereafter interact with the item comparison and producing additional data that may be considered indicative of comparable items. Such additional data based on the user s activity with the item comparison may be recorded for later access when producing another item comparison. An example discussed in greater detail herein is a user that excludes an item from the item comparison wherein data may be recorded indicating that the excluded item is less likely to be comparable to the item of interest. Another example discussed herein is a user that instruct requests additional comparable items wherein the user selects one or more items for the item comparison. Data may be recorded indicating that the selected items are more likely to be comparable to the item of interest.

In still another embodiment items may be considered for an item comparison wherein the items are not included in the recorded user activity data. Data reflecting such items may be stored in another database and include attributes that allow the items to be identified and considered for the item comparison. For example an item may be newly released such that the item has been available for only a short amount of time. The item may be of interest to the user perhaps a newer edition of an item previously considered but one that the user has not yet had opportunity to view or consider. If the item has a temporal attribute that indicates the initial date when the item became available an embodiment may review data for items not included in the recorded user activity data but having an attribute indicating a recent date of availability. Items meeting this criteria may be included in the item comparison or at least suggested to the user to include in the item comparison so the user can keep up to date with newly released items.

Other exemplary embodiments discussed herein include computing system configured to prepare an item comparison comprised of a data storage an item selector and an item comparison manager. The data storage has data recorded therein that is based on user activity with items the data being indicative of items that are comparable. The item selector is configured to identify an item from the data in the data storage for comparison to an item of interest to a user. The item comparison manager is configured to prepare the item comparison and record additional data in the data storage based on user activity with the item comparison.

Modifications and changes to the foregoing embodiments and others discussed herein can be made without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. The scope of the invention should be determined from the following claims and equivalents thereto.

