---

title: Board game using the alphabet and colors
abstract: A board game includes a game board having spaces about a perimeter. The spaces include a first group each displaying one alphabet letter. The first group is divided into subgroups, each having a subgroup color different from any other subgroup. A second group includes identical rest area spaces. A third group is lucky day spaces positioned between consecutive rest area spaces. Multiple color cards displaying one of the alphabet letters are positioned near the first group of spaces having a same one of the alphabet letters. One object is to remove all of an opponent's color cards. Another object is to color card all of a player's own home base spaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07597326&OS=07597326&RS=07597326
owner: 
number: 07597326
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060413
---
The present disclosure relates in general to board games and more specifically to a board game having both educational and entertainment functions and different levels of play.

Games including board games are known whose purpose is to both teach and entertain the players. Board games addressed to vocabulary improvement are known such as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 316 482 to Bryson. Bryson and similar board games disclose a game board providing the various letters of the alphabet and a plurality of playing cards. Colors have also been used in known board games to further teach or associate a color with a color name. Several disadvantages of known educational board games include the limitation of the game to a specific age group or learning group a playing format limited to a single type of play and game pieces or hardware that lack the ability to be used in more than one game format.

According to several embodiments of the present disclosure a board game includes a game board having a continuous path around a perimeter divided into consecutive spaces. The consecutive spaces include a first group of the spaces each displaying one letter of the alphabet consecutively ranging from A through X the first group being further divisible into a plurality of subgroups each subgroup having a subgroup color different from any other subgroup. A second group of the spaces define identical rest area spaces each positioned at one of four corners of the game board. A third group of the spaces each define a lucky day space each one of the lucky day spaces being positioned between consecutive ones of the rest area spaces. Multiple color cards each displaying one of the alphabet letters and each being of a size to be releasably positioned proximate a corresponding one of the first group of spaces have a same one of the alphabet letters.

According to additional embodiments a spinning wheel assembly is provided to randomly identify a color or letter for a player s next move. The spinning wheel assembly includes an indicator member which is stationary with respect to a spinning disc having a multiple color ring disposed thereon. A base can also be provided which is also stationary with respect to the spinning wheel.

According to still other embodiments a plurality of lucky day cards are provided. Each lucky day card identifies an action for the player who draws the card or an action the drawing player can impose on an opponent. A lucky day card is drawn when a player lands on one of a plurality of lucky day spaces positioned about the game board.

According to yet still other embodiments each of the color cards displays a color which corresponds to a color bar defining three consecutive letters of the spaces and one of the subgroup colors. The color cards are therefore both color matched and alphabet letter matched to individual ones of the spaces.

A board game of the present disclosure offers several advantages. The game board includes individual spaces each having an alphabet letter displayed thereon. A color card is provided for each colored space also having an alphabet letter. Matching the color cards to the appropriate spaces therefore teaches players to recognize the individual alphabet letters. The use of play money and lucky day instruction cards also introduces more sophisticated levels of play for between two three or four players. The introduction of a decimator status also introduces a heightened element of competition. Further options such as selection of a last chance provide a player previously eliminated the opportunity to be reinstated to the game.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the description and specific examples while indicating several embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure.

The following description of several embodiments is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the disclosure their application or uses. It should be understood that throughout the drawings corresponding reference numerals indicate like or corresponding parts and features.

According to several embodiments and referring generally to a game board configured in a substantially rectangular shape includes each of four sides or edges and a plurality of spaces positioned about a perimeter of game board proximate to the edges . A portion of the spaces positioned along one of the edges defines an individual player s home base . Up to four players can therefore use game board by each selecting one of the edges as their home base. In other embodiments a game board having three or more than four edges can also be used allowing for three or more than four players. Each of four corners of game board provides a rest area space . A jump arrow is also displayed in each of the rest area spaces . The jump arrow s are each oriented to indicate a direction of play which in some embodiments is in a counter clockwise direction A about game board . The present disclosure is not limited to a direction of play and a clockwise direction is therefore also within the scope of the present disclosure.

Along each of the edges a first subgroup and a second subgroup of spaces are defined. In the example shown a first space a second space and a third space define a first subgroup . Second space is directly abutted on either side by first and third spaces and and each of the first space second space and third space share a common first color bar . Color bar also includes a first alphabet letter a second alphabet letter and a third alphabet letter . First alphabet letter corresponds to first space second alphabet letter corresponds to second space and third alphabet letter corresponds to third space . A second subgroup is similarly created by spaces having the letters D E and F. Each of the remaining spaces about game board are also configured into a plurality of subgroups similar to first and second subgroups . A first lucky day space is positioned between each of first subgroup and second subgroup . Each of the other subgroups of spaces include their own color bar for example second subgroup includes a second color bar differing in color from color bar and the remaining color bars. Third through eighth color bars through are distributed about game board as shown representing the remaining subgroups of spaces. Similar to first color bar each of second through eighth color bars through include three alphabet letters in ascending order. Alphabet letters A through X are therefore sequentially displayed in a counterclockwise direction in the color bars and through .

A second third and fourth lucky day space are also positioned similar to first lucky day space between abutting subgroups on the remaining edges of game board . Each of the first through eighth color bars and through are provided with a color differing from the other color bars.

As best seen in reference to a random indicator device of the present disclosure includes an inner color section disposed on a movable indicator element inward of an outer perimeter of movable indicator element . Movable indicator element is divisible into a plurality of color segments . Each of the colors of color segments correspond to one of the colors defined by each of the color bars or through of game board . Each color segment is also visually distinguishable by a plurality of segment dividers which in this example are circles but can be any geometric shape. A plurality of outer ring segments are outwardly positioned from inner color section and divisible also by each of the segment dividers . A group of sequenced numbers is individually displayed in separate outer ring segments . In the example shown numbers range from two through nine. To avoid confusion in determining the difference between the numerals six and nine the numbers six and nine are spelled out in these positions. An indicator element having an arrowhead positioned at one distal end thereof is used during play to identify one of either the plurality of color segments or one of the plurality of numbers . Movable indicator element is rotatable in either a first rotational direction B or a second rotational direction C .

Referring now generally to further details of random indicator device include a retention element a support member having movable indicator element rotatably disposed thereon. Movable indicator element is rotatable relative to support member about a rotational axis . Indicator element is spatially separated from movable indicator element by a washer or spacer element . A support tube is positioned between movable indicator element and support member . Support tube can be rotatably connected to support member using a fastening element and a fastener not shown extending upwardly through support member and fastening element such that support tube is co rotatable with indicator element . A portion of support tube extends through retention element such that element indicator element spacer and support tube are each non rotatably disposed with respect to support member . Only movable indicator element is rotatable with respect to support member . In use therefore a player rotates movable indicator element by hand and indicator element remains fixed in position having arrowhead pointing toward one of color segments when movable indicator element stops spinning. Movable indicator element and support member can be any substantially rigid material including a polymeric a wood a fiber or a metal material. One of skill in the art will recognize that random indicator device can also be an electronically generated image which will not require physically connected elements including retention element support member spacer element support tube or fastening element .

In the embodiment shown each of movable indicator element and support member are substantially circular in shape however one of skill in the art will recognize this geometry can be changed to other geometric shapes. At least one friction pad can also be attached a support surface side of support member . Friction pad can be a resilient material such as a rubber or soft polymeric compound to provide non rotational gripping support between support member and a support surface that random indicator device is positioned on. Random indicator device can be supported on any flat surface including game board or a table or floor surface. In the circular configuration movable indicator element includes a width dimension D and support member includes a width dimension E . In several embodiments width dimension E is smaller than width dimension D so that contact with an outer perimeter area of movable indicator element is easier for the player.

Referring generally now to one of four game pieces is shown. Each game piece includes a perimeter wall which in several embodiments is a geometric shape such as an octagon. Other geometric shapes such as circles triangles and other polygonal shapes can also be used for perimeter wall . Game pieces can be created of a substantially rigid material similar to movable indicator element . A slot can be provided in one or more of the segments of perimeter wall . Game piece includes a game piece height F . Slot is positioned at a slot location G measurable from a first end of game piece . Between slot and a second end of game piece a color section is defined. Color section is painted or otherwise displays one of the colors of the various color bars of game board . Second end can also include the color of color section . Game pieces can also be provided of a material such as a polymeric material having the appropriate color throughout.

Referring now to a plurality of play money bills is provided for use with a speculator option of the present game. These bills include a plurality of five dollar bills and a plurality of one dollar bills which are distributed before the start of play to each of the individual players. The use of five dollar bills and one dollar bills will be described in greater detail in reference to the rules of play provided below.

Referring generally now to a plurality of color cards are provided one for each of the alphabet letters displayed about game board . For example a first second and third color card are shown. Each color card includes a first color area and a second color area separated by a white color area . One of the alphabet letters A through X is displayed on each of the color cards in the white color area . In this example the letter A is provided with first color card . The color of both color areas and of each color card match each other. The color of first second and third color cards in this example matches the color of first color bar . A color card group is therefore formed having the consecutive alphabet letters displayed in each of the three color cards which correspond to one of the plurality of color bars of game board . Individual color card groups are therefore provided for each of the color bars.

Referring now to a plurality of lucky day cards through are shown. A lucky day card is drawn when a player lands on one of the Luck Day Spaces . Lucky day cards such as cards and direct the player to spin random indicator device and follow the directions such as identifying the color identified by arrowhead and going to any letter with that color or identifying the number indicated by arrowhead and moving an appropriate number of spaces indicated by the number. Lucky day cards through generally direct movement by a predetermined number of spaces or adding or removing home base color cards. Lucky day cards and are wild cards which can be saved by the player for use or sale any time thereafter. Lucky day cards and through direct the player to go to a specific color on game board . Lucky day card is used to direct an opponent to remove four home base color cards from game board .

Referring now generally to an exemplary view of game board during play by two players is shown. In this example a first player has selected a first player side and a second player has selected a second player side . This leaves an open side and an open side of game board . Each of the two players positions their respective game piece on fourth lucky day space and second lucky day space respectively. Each of the lucky day spaces includes a color designator having one of the colors of the color bars of that side of game board displayed thereon. For example fourth lucky day space includes a color designator having the exemplary color of seventh color bar . Second lucky day space being used by the second player has a color designator displaying the color of third color bar . Each of the players selects one of the game pieces which matches the color of the specific color designator on their selected side of game board . For example game piece has the same color as both color designator and seventh color bar and game piece has the same color displayed by both color designator and third color bar . Each of the players therefore places their game piece on the specific lucky day space on their side of game board . In some versions of the game the game pieces move counter clockwise about game board and in other versions game pieces do not move from the specific lucky day spaces.

As further shown in when selecting one of the sides or edges of game board for play the player is therefore distributed each of the color cards matching the color bars and alphabet letters on that side of game board . When the color segment indicated by random indicator device matches one of the color bar colors of the spinning player he she places one of their color cards such that first color area is partially under game board . White color area of the color card completely showing the specific alphabet letter is displayed corresponding to the alphabet letter of the particular space. In this example the first player has positioned color cards and at each of the spaces matching the designated alphabet letters. For example a letter S of color card matches a letter S of seventh color bar when color card is positioned proximate thereto. In this example at least one non carded space is open meaning that a color card has not yet been positioned proximate thereto or has been removed in response to an action directed by of one of the Lucky Day Cards .

As best seen to the right in on the second player s side of the game board the second player has positioned a color card proximate to each of the alphabet letters of both third and fourth color bars . A color card and is therefore positioned corresponding to each of an alphabet letter G H I of third color bar . For example color card includes a letter I which corresponds to an alphabet letter I item of third color bar . Similarly each of a color card and are positioned corresponding to alphabet letters designated in the fourth color bar . Once all of the color cards for a given player are positioned as shown to the right in that player is considered to be a DECIMATOR or the equivalent ELIMINATOR which will affect play as described in the rules section to follow.

By designating each of the color cards with an individual one of the alphabet letters a younger player can learn to identify the individual alphabet letters by shape and name. The individual colors of each color card also help the younger player identify the areas on game board associated with the various letters of the alphabet to help visually relate the sequence of one alphabet letter to another. A lucky day card stack and random indicator device are shown positioned on an inner open area of game board . These items can also be positioned anywhere the players desire. Lucky day card stack includes each of the lucky day cards through .

Game board as described above is exemplary of multiple possible shapes for the board. Alternate shapes can also be used not limited to triangle rectangle oval circle and polygonal shapes. The quantity of lucky day spaces rest area spaces playing pieces and lettered spaces can therefore be varied to suit the geometric shape of game board . For example with a triangular shaped game board only three lucky day spaces and three rest area spaces are required and play would be limited to three players with three playing pieces. Circular or oval shaped game boards can also be used with defined home bases being between two consecutive rest area spaces. Game board and the remaining game items can also be electronically generated images for example for use in an electronic version of the game where the images are provided on a projection video LCD or other electronic presentation format. The shape of the color cards can therefore also be varied to correspond to the board shape. The game is therefore not limited by the presentation format.

The game includes at least two levels of play Regular Play and Speculator Play. Speculator Play involves use of additional parts which will be described below in greater detail and extended rules.

For Regular Play players do not use Speculator Play parts or Speculator Play rules. Therefore in Regular Play players do not use LUCKY DAY cards do not use play money use only the colors of color segments not the numbers on the random indicator device use the 24 color cards having alphabet letters A thru X and pawns stay on their LUCKY DAY space throughout the game and do not move about the game board . For Regular Play with 2 players the youngest player starts play. The Home Base for each player is one of edges of board selected by that player. Each player s pawn matches their first Home Base color and will stay on their LUCKY DAY space . Six 6 Home Base color cards are kept at the ready by each player. Players will insert or remove color cards under the edge of the board at matching letters as play dictates. Players adding or causing the removal of any color card will take another turn. Player number one starts play by 

The APPARENT WINNER is the first player to position their color cards at all six 6 of that player s Home Base letters. The game stops unless an APPARENT LOSER requests a LAST CHANCE . When a LAST CHANCE is requested the APPARENT LOSER begins a continued play hoping to become a DECIMATOR before being decimated by the APPARENT WINNER. Continued play always begins with the APPARENT LOSER.

During LAST CHANCE the rules are the same as before last chance was requested with the added DECIMATOR status for any player with all six 6 HOME BASE letters color carded. Thus the APPARENT LOSER beginning their last chance hopes to get all six 6 Home Base letters color carded and now as a DECIMATOR continuing on to remove color cards from the APPARENT WINNER.

Players who are decimated which is defined as any player who does not have any color cards to remove must finally remove their own pawn pawn value one 1 color card . The game ends with one 1 REAL WINNER and one 1 totally bankrupted REAL LOSER defined as a player having no Home Base color cards and no pawn .

The first player to Color Card all six 6 Home Base letters is the APPARENT WINNER. The youngest player starts similar to a 2 player game. A three player game proceeds with one 1 side of the game board idle. Rules for a three player game are the same as the two player game identified above. Up to two APPARENT LOSERS can result. If a LAST CHANCE is requested by either of the two APPARENT LOSERS the next player in turn spins hoping to become a DECIMATOR before being decimated by the APPARENT WINNER.

The game ends when both opponents are DEACTIVATED having no color cards to remove and both pawns finally removed. The game therefore ends with one 1 REAL WINNER and two 2 totally bankrupted REAL LOSERs having no color cards and no pawns .

Each player chooses any of the four sides of the board as their own. The four players divide into two teams each having two player partners having four 4 colors between them. Each team challenges the other team and their four 4 colors. Individual players will install pawns at their individual Home Base.

An APPARENT WINNING TEAM will be the first team to have color cards on all twelve 12 of that team s Home Base letters x. If a LAST CHANCE is requested by the APPARENT LOSING TEAM the next player on the APPARENT LOSING TEAM begins continued play hoping the team becomes a DECIMATING TEAM before being Decimated. Partners are a DECIMATING TEAM whenever the players of that team have color cards on all 12 of their Home Base letters.

REACTIVATION can occur if a pawnless player spins any of their team s four 4 Home Base colors. The missing pawn is then placed back in play pawn placed back on LUCKY DAY spot . The REACTIVATED player will then take another turn. REACTIVATION also occurs when a DEACTIVATED PLAYER s partner who still has a pawn in play during their turn spins any of their team s four 4 Home Base colors. The REACTIVATED player s partner will accordingly take another turn. A team member having their partner deactivated who is subsequently decimated without Color Cards to remove must finally remove his her own pawn ending all play. The GAME ENDS with TWO 2 REAL WINNERS and TWO 2 LOSERS having no Color Cards and no pawns .

In Speculator Play players use PLAY MONEY Cash equivalents color card 2 value pawn 1 value use LUCKY DAY cards use the numbers and colors on the random indicator device and pawns start at each players respective HOME BASE LUCKY DAY space or . The color of each pawn matches a player s first HOME BASE color. Pawns also move about game board in a counterclockwise direction.

The player having the highest number spun starts play. HOME BASE for each player is the one 1 side of the board of their choice. 20 in play money three 5 bills and five 1 bills are each player s gamble. SIX 6 HOME BASE color cards are kept at the ready by each player. Players will insert or remove color cards under the corresponding edge of game board at a corresponding letter as play dictates. The player s pawn is placed on the LUCKY DAY space corresponding to each player s HOME BASE side or edge to start. Two edges of game board in the 2 player game that are not the HOME BASE of either player are IDLE and therefore ready to become WILD by Color Carding.

PLAYER number starts by spinning a number and moving their pawn the number of spaces indicated counterclockwise . This can result in several outcomes 

Penalties for trespassing are the same for all levels 2 3 or 4 player games of Speculator Play. A letter with no color card 0 NO PENALTY . A letter carded with a single or double color 1 PENALTY. A letter carded with a triple color 2 PENALTY. A letter carded with a double triple color defined as color cards on all six 6 of an opponent s HOME BASE letters 4 PENALTY. If a player is short the amount of cash needed to pay the money owed the player will remove any HOME BASE color cards s of their choosing to make up the difference. In this case since color cards were removed that player will take another turn.

The APPARENT WINNER will have color cards on all six 6 HOME BASE letters. Should the APPARENT LOSER not take their LAST CHANCE then the loser will pay the winner two 2 dollars per letter not carded in the Loser s HOME BASE and the game ends. Each color card 2 cash equivalent .

If the APPARENT LOSER requests a LAST CHANCE the APPARENT LOSER begins continued play hoping to become a DECIMATOR color cards on all six HOME BASE letters before being decimated by the APPARENT WINNER. An APPARENT WINNER never begins continued play.

During LAST CHANCE All rules are the same as before the LAST CHANCE was requested with the added DECIMATOR status during the time a player has color cards on all six HOME BASE letters.

The game ends with 1 REAL WINNER and 1 totally BANKRUPTED REAL LOSER having no home base color cards no pawn and no play money .

For this level of play as in all levels the cash equivalents are the same color card 2 value pawn 1 value 20 play money three 5 bills and five 1 bills are each players gamble. Only one 1 edge of game board is IDLE ready to become WILD . DECIMATORs will require each opponent to remove two 2 color cards apiece total four 4 when a DECIMATOR lands on their own HOME BASE or WILD IDLE color letter. Any instructions given by LUCKY DAY cards for any opponent applies to both opponents equally. Penalties for landing on an opponent s HOME BASE letter space are paid individually by the one trespassing player to the one offended opponent same as in 2 player . The APPARENT WINNER will have color cards on all six 6 HOME BASE letters. The APPARENT LOSER s will pay the APPARENT WINNER s 2 per uncarded HOME BASE letter space if a LAST CHANCE is not requested. If a LAST CHANCE is requested the next player in turn begins continued play hoping to become a DECIMATOR by taking another turn over and over until all opponents are eliminated.

This version is similar to the 2 and 3 player versions. Partners pick any two 2 edges of the game board 2 against . Each individual player starts with 20 as before 80 total involved . Penalties are the same 0 1 2 and 4 as in Speculator Play for 2 and 3 players. Players landing on their own HOME BASE letter or a partner s HOME BASE letter will Color Card it and take another turn. Players landing on a HOME BASE WILD letter or a partner s HOME BASE WILD letter will Color Card any of the twelve 12 TEAM letters not yet carded and take another turn. Each player pays penalties individually for trespassing on an offended opponent s HOME BASE. Therefore winning team members will end the game with differing amounts of cash. The APPARENT WINNING TEAM will have all twelve 12 HOME BASE letters color carded. The APPARENT LOSING TEAM members will pay 2 per uncarded HOME BASE letter divided equally to the winning team members.

If a LAST CHANCE is requested the next APPARENT LOSING TEAM player begins continued play hoping to have their team become a DECIMATING TEAM before themselves being decimated. During LAST CHANCE play 

A board game of the present disclosure offers several advantages. The game board includes individual spaces each having an alphabet letter displayed thereon. A color card is provided for each colored space also having an alphabet letter. Matching the color cards to the appropriate spaces therefore teaches players to recognize the individual alphabet letters. The use of play money and lucky day instruction cards also introduces more sophisticated levels of play for between two and four players. The introduction of a decimator status also introduces a heightened element of competition. Further options such as selection of a last chance provide a player previously eliminated the opportunity to be reinstated to the game. Thus all players can be actively involved and participating in game play until all play ends unlike other board games where eliminated players must wait outside of the action until the winner is decided.

It is alternately envisioned that the presentation could be incorporated into a video or computer game and therefore electronically presented. It is further envisioned that the board cards and spinner or random selection device may have differing shapes from those identified herein. The description of the present disclosure is merely exemplary in nature and thus variations that do not depart from the gist of the disclosure are intended to be within the scope of the disclosure. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

