---

title: Environment friendly methods and systems for template cleaning and reclaiming in imprint lithography technology
abstract: Cleaning and reclaiming nano-imprint templates using environment friendly methods and systems is disclosed. A template may be cleaned by a combination of exposure to activated gaseous species followed by rinsing with oxygenated or hydrogenated DI water and exposure to reactive plasma to remove organic contaminant. Contaminant may be removed by forming a coating film of a water soluble polymer on the template and then peeling off the coating film. Organic residue from the film may be removed using oxygenated plasma.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07846266&OS=07846266&RS=07846266
owner: KLA-Tencor Technologies Corporation
number: 07846266
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060217
---
This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. N66001 02 C 8011 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention generally relates to an apparatus and method for cleaning an imprint template. In particular the present invention pertains to an environment friendly method and system for template cleaning and reclaiming in imprint lithography technology.

Nano imprint lithography NIL is a type of micro fabrication technique that is becoming increasingly important in semiconductor processing and other applications. Imprint lithography provides greater process control and reduction of the minimum feature dimension of the structures formed. This in turn provides higher production yields and more integrated circuits per wafer for example. Nano imprint lithography can be used to form a relief image on a substrate such as a semiconductor wafer. Nano imprint lithography has two basic steps. The first step is imprint step in which a mold with a relief nanostructure on its surface is pressed into a thin resist film cast on to a substrate followed by the removal of the mold.

Unlike conventional lithography methods imprint lithography itself does not use any energetic beams. Therefore nano imprint lithography s resolution is not limited by the effects of wave diffraction scattering and interference in a resist and backscattering from a substrate. Imprint lithography systems often use an imprint head with a mold also called a template which can be installed and removed from the imprint head. This allows the imprint lithography system to be used to imprint different patterns. In this manner the imprint lithography system can be used to fabricate various types of circuits or other devices or imprint various structures on a substrate.

Nano imprint lithography NIL has been identified as a possible candidate in realizing the 32 nm technology node in the semiconductor industry. The potential for NIL largely depends upon the ability of its proponents to demonstrate a faultless industrial implementation in all aspects. One such aspect that has acquired a rather sizable dimension in the early investigations is the issue of managing the NIL templates for contamination pattern fidelity and longevity during production use.

Embodied within the concept of template contamination and pattern fidelity are all the attempts to generate a pattern surface free of particulate contamination as well as providing surface properties to template to ensure clean release after the imprinting. Similarly embodied within the concept of template longevity are all the attempts to maintain the continuous utilization of a template in a production environment while maintaining the quality of the product within given specifications. Given that nano imprint lithography is still an emerging technology there are few standard procedures to achieve any of the goals described above.

The templates used in nano imprint lithography require frequent periodic cleaning. Conventionally these templates have been cleaned for first use by spraying them with sulfuric acid HSO followed by Nitrogen blow drying. To reclaim a template after use it is often necessary to remove contamination that occurs during production runs. Current methods of reclaiming a template after contamination during production runs involve repeating the wet chemical cleaning and manual surface treatment for release characteristics. Unfortunately such wet cleaning can be expensive to implement involves hazardous and corrosive chemicals that must be disposed of somehow. Disposal of such chemicals presents an environmental hazard that adds to the overall expense of wet chemical cleaning in particular and nano imprint lithography in general.

Water soluble polymers have been used to clean optical surfaces. The film is spun on to an optical surface in liquid form air dried and then peeled off. As the film is peeled off inorganic particles and other contaminants on the optical surface stick to the film and are removed. Unfortunately after the film is removed an organic residue remains on the surface. It has been suggested that the residue may be removed by baking the optical surface e.g. at about 250 C. Unfortunately such baking may not sufficiently remove the organic residue. In addition some optical surfaces such as semiconductor wafers photomasks and imprint templates would warp or be otherwise damaged by heating. If the film is water soluble the residue could potentially be removed by rinsing in de ionized water. However a water rinse is usually not enough. A water rinse would typically need to be followed by drying with an alcohol vapor. This sequence of wet processing is typical but involves quite a bit of equipment as well as fire and health hazards.

Organic solvents are typically used in the template manufacturing process to remove films such a photoresist after the patterning is finished. The solvents are used to dissolve the resist film but the surface may require additional cleaning to remove any residues from the solvent resist stripping.

Thus there is a need in the art for a method for cleaning optical surfaces that overcomes the above drawbacks.

According to embodiments of the present invention nano imprint templates may be cleaned in an environment friendly manner. A template may be cleaned by exposure to activated gaseous species with or without plasma heat or UV light. The template is then rinsed with oxygenated or hydrogenated deionized DI water with or without megasonic to remove organic contaminants. The template is then dry cleaned with a reactive plasma e.g. containing Oor O. Inorganic contaminants may be removed by forming a coating film of a water soluble polymer on a surface of the template. The coating film is peeled from the template to remove contaminants that stick to the film. Remaining organic residue can be removed from the template using a reactive plasma e.g. containing Oor O.

Although the following detailed description contains many specific details for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the exemplary embodiments of the invention described below are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention.

The carbon dioxide cleaning may involve macroscopic hard and dense dry ice pellets softer microscopic CO snow particles liquid COwashing or supercritical fluid carbon dioxide SFCO . These processes depends on either the liquid carbon dioxide solvent properties energy and momentum transfer by an impacting solid phase or a combination of both. Pellet systems rely upon the thermo mechanical impact stresses related to the high impact velocity of macroscopic pellets for contamination removal a momentum and energy transfer process. Snow sprays rely upon a combination of solvent action of liquid COand the momentum transfer of high velocity microscopic snow particles. The liquid based COwashing systems rely upon the liquid phase solvent properties. Finally the SFC systems rely exclusively upon carbon dioxide s unique supercritical fluid properties.

By way of example COsnow Cleaning systems rely on the expansion of either gaseous or liquid carbon dioxide. The output stream is usually a high velocity solid and gas mix and focused at the surface for cleaning. The most common commercial approach to the snow cleaning technology involves single expansion nozzles with high velocity outputs. The goal within the orifice and nozzle design is to have a constant enthalpy expansion and a high velocity stream. Asymmetric Venturi nozzles supersonic nozzles can yield these conditions. Other nozzle geometries give rise to high velocity snow streams but are less focused may need nitrogen boosting or can compromise organic removal abilities. Snow spray systems can remove both particulates and organic residues and can be formed with either a liquid or gas COsource.

SFCO2 systems rely upon the solvent properties of COand other unique properties of a superfluid. This involves maintaining the pressure and temperature in the supercritical regime above 31 C and 72.8 atmospheres. Generally the SFCO2 units operate at much higher pressures and temperatures than the critical point. In a SFCO2 system the items for cleaning are sealed in a vessel the vessel is filled and the temperature and pressure are adjusted. The superfluid has extremely low viscosity low surface tension and superior solvent properties than the liquid phase.

Liquid COwashing systems use lower pressures that SFCO e.g. cylinder pressure of about 800 psi. Although liquid COwashing may lack the unique penetrating power of the superfluid phase the lower pressures and easier equipment design allow for agitation and spin cycles that may assist in particle removal.

After rinsing the template is then dry cleaned with a reactive plasma containing e.g. oxygen O or ozone O as indicated at . The cleaned template may subsequently be used in an imprint process. It is noted that this process avoids wet cleaning with corrosive agents e.g. acids such as HSOor caustic agents such as ammonia in cleaning the template.

After an imprint lithography process a nano imprint template may have contaminants e.g. inorganic particles sticking on its surface. Removal of such contaminants facilitates reclamation of the template. illustrates a method for removal of contaminants from a nano imprint template. As indicated at a water soluble polymer such as polyvinyl alcohol is dispersed on the surface of the template to form a coating film of the water soluble polymer on the surface of the template such that the inorganic contaminant will stick to the coating film. By way of example and without limitation the template may be placed on a spin chuck to spin coat a film of the water soluble polymer on the surface of the template. The film may then be peeled from the template surface at thereby removing the contaminants. By way of example a lift may be used to peel off the coating film containing the inorganic contaminant. Depending on the type of water soluble polymer it may be desirable to allow the film to dry before peeling it from the surface of the template. After the film and contaminants have been removed an organic reside may remain on the surface of the template. An optional COcleaning at may be used e.g. as described above for fine ultra critical cleaning processes. The organic residue may be removed using a reactive plasma e.g. an oxygenated plasma containing Oor O.

It is noted that although depict particular sequences for cleaning operations these sequences are shown for the sake of example and are not to be construed as limitations upon the invention.

After rinsing the template may be transferred to the vacuum chamber e.g. through a slit valve . The template may rest on a sample stage disposed in the vacuum processing chamber during processing. A heating element may be incorporated into the chamber and or stage to facilitate heating of the template during processing. The processing gas supply unit supplies one or more process gases to the chamber . The process gases may include an inert gas such as argon for plasma initiation and one or more other gases that provide activated gaseous species e.g. Oor O and or other dopants such as Fluorine Chlorine or other halogens. It is noted that halogens in sufficient concentration may attack the material of the template e.g. quartz . The object is to use an aggressive cleaning environment without damaging the template . The plasma generating device supplies energy e.g. in the form of radiofrequency radiation DC voltage or microwaves to the process gases to generate and sustain the reactive plasma in the processing chamber . In a preferred embodiment the plasma is an oxygenated plasma which may include Oand or Oas reactive species.

In the example depicted in the deionized water supply and processing gas supply are depicted as being separate they may alternatively be coupled to the same chamber .

Device shown in includes a spin chuck for holding the nano imprint template horizontally and a motor for rotating the spin chuck in a horizontal plane. The device also includes a dispenser for dropping a coating liquid such as a water soluble polymer on the surface of the nano imprint template and a lift for peeling off the coating film on the surface of the nano imprint template. The lift includes a contact plate that may be brought into contact with a film of the water soluble polymer. The contact plate is made of a material to which the water soluble polymer readily adheres. When the lift pulls the contact plate away from the template the contact plate pulls the film away from the template . The lift may pull the contact plate away from the template through some combination of translational and rotational motion.

In alternative embodiments the template may be mounted to a lift not shown that pulls the template away from the contact plate through some combination of translational and rotational motion. In addition some combination of motions of both the contact plate and template may accomplish separation of the water soluble polymer film from the template. In addition the template may be transferred between the system and the device to facilitate automated processing of the templates thereby enhancing throughput.

In some embodiments the system may further include a high velocity carbon dioxide CO snow cleaning station for fine ultra critical cleaning processes. The COsnow cleaning station includes a COsource a nozzle with an internal orifice an on off valve and the means to transport the COfrom the source to the nozzle. An example of a nozzle valve assembly suitable for CO2 snow cleaning is a model K1 10 available from Applied Surface Technologies of New Providence N.J.

Embodiments of the present invention allow for cleaning and reclaiming of wafers without the use of acids or caustic agents. Consequently embodiments of the present invention may be implemented without the use of expensive and heavily regulated wet chemical cleaning equipment and the associated hazards and costs of disposal of the acids after use. Cleaning of nano imprint templates according to embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in an environmentally friendly and economical manner with repeatable quality output.

While the above is a complete description of the preferred embodiment of the present invention it is possible to use various alternatives modifications and equivalents. Therefore the scope of the present invention should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. Any feature whether preferred or not may be combined with any other feature whether preferred or not. In the claims that follow the indefinite article A or An refers to a quantity of one or more of the item following the article except where expressly stated otherwise. The appended claims are not to be interpreted as including means plus function limitations unless such a limitation is explicitly recited in a given claim using the phrase means for. 

