---

title: Multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface means for interactive multimedia system having cognitive adaptive capability
abstract: A multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface means includes: an interactive user interface means comprising at least one multilevel semiotic means addressable by a user and a fuzzy logic descriptor set module for storing multiple fuzzy logic descriptor sets; a metadata layer for linking said multilevel semiotic means to interactivity points present in content of the multimedia representation and defined by the metadata layer such that each level of each of the multilevel semiotic means identifies an interactivity point in the content and allows by selection of the interactivity point to perform a selectively varying content manipulation and to receive a resulting interactive presentation of content according to the selection: and a user control device for addressing the multilevel semiotic means.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08280827&OS=08280827&RS=08280827
owner: Syneola Luxembourg SA
number: 08280827
owner_city: Dudelange
owner_country: LU
publication_date: 20060817
---
This is a National Phase Application in the United States of International Patent Application No. PCT EP2006 008112 filed Aug. 17 2006 which claims priority on European Patent Application No. 05018222.9 filed Aug. 23 2005. The entire disclosures of the above patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention pertains to providing variably programmable interactive user and metadata interface means for interactive content production broadcasting and using via interactive media devices systems and applications. It also pertains to content configuration structuring and support to facilitate authoring production distribution and use of such interactive systems.

The programmable aspect pertains to using multilevel semiotic addressing and differentiation means fuzzy logic interpretation means and fuzzy semiotic expert system means. The means are made to provide individual and variable user experiences as well as qualitative evaluations and qualifications of the content and its user. They allow to construct a user and provider friendly interactive multimedia system and a related usage expert system. For the purpose of the invention a game a film a docu fiction a documentary a tutorial an advertisement a music clip or full show recording an info or ludo tainment program and the like as well as combinations thereof correspond to the definition of content. Within this context they are summarily considered to be stories rendered via audio and AV production and broadcasting.

Variably programmable interactivity according to the invention hence applies to all still or moving picture based applications audio or AV applications such as movies feature films films animations games documentaries docu fiction clips short versions in general clips of shows sporting events news alerts performances advertisements or tutorials infotainment edutainment ludo tainment.

It also applies to printed material with novel features and interactive means and characters dolls toys robots and the like that benefit from providing the viewer or user with individually variable interactivity means and correspondingly configured content.

It applies to all story telling which is based on still or moving picture and sound receiving and sending devices and systems. Such devices may be contained in but are not limited to the following list. It applies to digital and analog video and AV applications including video on demand VoD and media centers including 3D and virtual reality based AV systems. It also applies to a variety of fixed portable and on board devices and combinations thereof for viewing and interactive usage such as TVs set top boxes STB recording playing devices like digital and personal video recorders DVR and PVR arcade game stations and 3D and virtual reality rendering systems. It also applies to AV projectors PC s media centers POI and POS displays PDA s portable memory devices download store replay devices phones alert alarm messaging and planning devices biometrics personal diagnostic medicinal dosage and delivery devices tablet computers e books i books audio books flexible displays and the like.

It applies further to fixed portable and on board CE Consumer Electronic devices and combinations thereof and other known devices including interactive dolls toys robots appliances and the like.

Interactive systems are mostly used to transmit a message a story a sequence of stories or stories inserted into other stories. The stories are told programmed and rendered via scripts story boards programs real time input or sometimes a simple sequence of events which relate to an episode of particular story or chapter of a tutorial.

Sometimes one or more characters or one or more narrators take the viewer through living the story. This happens via programmed acting interventions events situations actions reactions encounters verbal visual sound lighting speed various special effects like noise or scent and the like used to convey the message of the content. These means are also used to enhance the experience of the viewer.

In the present invention a story can be a description of an event a product a service a geographical physical fictional or real entity a process or event. It can be represented by a sequence or mixture of event clip advertisement finished story episode of a story and the like.

A complete story is considered either a single story or the sum of stories packaged together in an offering to the viewer. It is called a content an asset or a resource depending on the point of view for example product ownership or producing standard.

The terms story content essence asset digital item and resource will be used interchangeably through the present application.

It will mostly be summarized as content depending on the terminology used in cited documents and items or in the description of the invention.

A distinction will however be made between main content and sponsored content main content signifying the movie show and the like main content selected by the viewer for enjoyment and sponsored content signifying the advertising news clips information and the like content inserted and telescoped into or tagged onto the main content.

The combination of main and sponsored content and the respective metadata etc will be called a digital item if considered so according to MPEG 21.

It will be considered total content outside of MPEG 21 or within any other similar existing or emerging standard.

In each case the interactive system contains variably programmable interactivity points located freely within the selected moment place situation or event in the script the scenario or the story board and is introduced and operated by simple semiotic means within the display of the packaged complete story.

The terms variably programmable interactivity point and interactivity potential will be used interchangeably through the text of the present application.

The variability of the interactivity is expressed on one side through programmable means of the attitudinal expression s or decision s with which the character s the narrator s or the user s or both or the three navigate s through the story. The variability is also expressed through reactions of the characters s or narrator s or user s interactions between the character s the narrator s and the user s . The attitudes decisions reactions and interactions further lead to variably programmable paths which a story can take in and to variable effect s in the user s living experience of the story.

Multilevel semiotic means are used as a simple yet expressive user interface and allow a content related intuitive representation of the interactive elements and the process involved. The means also allow a quick and easy use of such variable programmable interactive multimedia systems.

Fuzzy logic membership functions and rules are used to provide descriptor and interpretation means for qualitative attitudinal and decisional approaches.

The means are used for intuitive navigating viewing playing and living the multimedia content and for rating and evaluating according to the application.

By functional and meaning related links between fuzzy logic interpretation means and multilevel semiotic representation means according to the present invention it becomes possible to execute the innovative interactive functionality in an unprecedented way.

According to the invention the expressions of interactivity parameters and operations are coded and interpreted in fuzzy logic sets and rules implied by and interfaced via the multilevel semiotic system.

This allows the unprecedented use of multilevel fuzzy qualitative linguistic descriptor semiotic definitions and variables crisp numerical or true not true variables visual and other and semiotic representations fuzzy logic decision criteria and weighing factors.

The inventive multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user interface is used to provide elements of surprise in living the story and interpreting actions reactions decisions votes and scores.

It also provides a simple intuitive and powerful interface for the user as well as authoring adapting and authorizing tools for the content author provider and broadcaster.

The multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic interactivity system according to the present invention also provides the basis for expert system learning capabilities within an interactive application with regards to the preferences tendencies and habits etc of the viewer.

In combination with the multilevel semiotic means according to the invention the expert system provides potential on line or separate input evaluation and information benefits to the media broadcasters producers and sponsors.

Interfacing the multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic interactivity system with the content metadata according to the present invention represents a further inventive step allowing flexible authoring and protecting the interactive content.

Networking will allow users to live comparatively different experiences of a story an episode or a multitude of episodes and stories experiences which can be shared and evaluated within multi user or multiplayer groups and by the supplier s of the interactive application or service.

The expert system based on the fuzzy logic and multilevel semiotic system according to the present invention will then provide the basis for evaluation of individual and group dynamics behavior and learning as well as group sharing and the related potential and evolving on line benefits to the media user broadcaster producer and sponsor.

In general and in the simplest sense the invention relates to interactive story creating transmitting receiving and playing using interactive systems and applications.

More particularly the invention relates to interactive user and content metadata interface means and to means to facilitate content configuration authoring production distribution authorizing and use of interactive stories.

The invention relates particularly to stories which are configurable and programmable to provide individual variable and evolving user approach and experience.

Variably programmable interactivity according to the invention applies to all still or moving pictures based story AV transmitting and receiving to audio story transmitting and receiving on audio devices having an interactive user interface and capabilities and in general to AV devices systems and means which are equipped to be used interactively.

This signifies without limiting the invention to such means and systems that they are equipped with features to convey interactive functionality like displays keyboards control devices built in or attached memory software and communication capability beyond simple picture plus sound or picture or sound only playing means for viewing recording and reproducing.

Interactive video and AV systems on one support are well known at least since the advent of formats and devices like the CD i Compact Disc interactive in the late 1980 s. The CD I Design Handbook Philips IMS 1992 Philips Electronics UK Ltd . Since then the evolution of FMV Full Motion Video to MPEG Motion Picture Experts Group and MHEG Multimedia and Hypermedia Experts Group based ISO standards has seen important progress. The development of techniques like UMID Unique Material Identifier of HAVi of interoperability IT networks for home based AV of the Internet of digital audio and video broadcasting like DVB T and DVB H of short range wireless communication systems like Bluetooth Wi Fi of WiMax of XML WML MFX QuickTime and the like have been remarkable. Hardware and software performance of communication networks of high performance multi platform languages of virtual machines of interactive authoring program modules such as Java of Java applets as well as highly configurable operating systems have allowed to fulfill and to surpass by far the pioneering time dreams of living the interactive experience by viewing playing enjoying and learning. The amount of content delivered and the ways to deliver them to the user is ever increasing same as the amount of content generated by non traditional sources. The merging of technologies devices and formats allows to expand the notion of interactivity beyond a single type of content or device. It also calls for innovative tools for convergence which provide usefulness beyond viewing or playing.

Prior systems and methods of providing interactive video and converting content for interactive use by describing and tracking objects are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 684 715 Palmer U.S. Pat. No. 5 844 557 Shively II U.S. Pat. No. 6 154 771 Rangan et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 462 763 Mostyn et al U.S. Pat. No. 6 496 981 Wistendahl et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 570 587 Efrat et al US 2003 0085887 Hunt et al U.S. Pat. No. 6 693 649 Lipscomb et al U.S. Pat. No. 6 774 908 Bates et al and U.S. Pat. No. 6 625 315 Laumeyer et al. They necessitate detection or identification mapping and tracking of spatial and temporal position of hotspots pixel objects etc relating mostly to a fixed or moving object on the screen within a video sequence.

It can be extremely tedious to author such interactive applications because of the volume of the object mapping data per image display frame the respective linkage through a number of such frames the varying position of the object within a frame sometimes the varying size or the color of the object the need for shape fitting algorithms non linear transformation interpolation color filters and hence of the complexity of algorithms of crisp and fuzzy logic scrutinizing and selection and the volume of mapping data for a frame sequence. These systems require excessive processing power and sometimes feature tedious user interfaces by requesting the user to pursue the moving hotspot within a moving picture or to wait for it to appear at a particular moment on the screen in order to obtain access to the interactive feature. Additionally the interactive feature itself is more or less limited to respond to moving objects. However the user may also want to know about the availability of interactive features related to audio or video background to parts of the background to scenes to scene content or context be it related to a part or parts of the audio content or simply to surprising author or producer input or to spontaneous user input.

The provider on his part may want to furnish and use these features as can be envisioned by today s emerging technology and consumer demands. It is therefore a first objective of the invention to provide novel multilevel interactive means to create to position and to address interactivity opportunities.

The novel multilevel interactive means disclosed by the invention locate interactivity opportunities which can be related to a moving object without tracking the object itself on the display or to tracking a scene its background or a part or parts of the audio or video content to a particular context of the related story to an insert like an advertisement or a spontaneous viewer or producer input.

All of the prior art documents mentioned above only disclose interactivity points related to locating a hotspot and leading to a defined target or targets. It is therefore a further objective of the present invention to provide signs for the interactivity opportunities in a manner that is independent of the shape and relative position of related objects of backgrounds and scenes as well as of the duration of appearance of a related part or parts of the video and audio content.

Other prior art relies on cooperating devices or add ons to provide interactive content synchronized with existing content which was not originally intended for interactive use. US 2002 0100063 Herigstad et al teaches the delivery of interactive material via a second mobile device to a user viewing video content on a first fixed device. For reasons of practicality the user needs to be in close proximity of both devices. Tags broadcasted to the mobile device and related to the content and timing broadcasted to the fixed device permit the user to receive and store information and other items of interest on the mobile device for retrieval when desired. The information and other items of interest can be tailored according to known preferences of the mobile device user.

US 2002 0161909 White teaches the use of downloading a hotspot applet synchronizing a hotspot file with any streaming video file and relies on a web browser within the Internet receiving device for reading and storing the hotspot data file and where the temporal component is synchronized with the video stream.

WO 01 10118 relates to web based TV and teaches the use of receiving a TV signal including a graphic symbol which generates an active region within the TV display that is related to the graphic symbol and which triggers an action in response to the viewer sort of a cookie like hotspot which can lead to user information overload and encumbered access to the really desired interactivity content.

EP 1 304 876 A2 discloses a system and method to display additional information such as advertising associated with a selectable display area displayed as additional content together with a given main content. The selectable display area may be visually identified within the main content display by indicators such as borders around the selectable display areas or icons. Possible actions to be performed by the viewer include retrieval and or display of specific content including text video and audio content. A system and method to embed the selectable additional content within the main content stream is also disclosed.

WO 00 70489 teaches about providing hotspots and hot spaces in a shared virtual world defined primarily as 3D virtual world. Hot spaces are disclosed as being 2D or 3D dimensional areas of the virtual world. Most of the interactivity opportunities thought in this document are related to space transport within space and occupation of space. Interactivity can be triggered when a user comes close to a predetermined virtual distance to the hot space or clicks on the hotspot or hot space.

None of these prior art systems allow the user to express his her preferences for a differentiated action related to the interactive opportunity but are limited to addressing the given hotspot or hot space without further choice. Hence a hotspot or a hot space always seems to lead to one single predefined target for example a source of information like advertising news music clip statistics or the like or to a place like a website. It also seems to lead always to a defined action like exploration occupation or destruction of a space or object sometimes via one or more clicks or commands and sometimes needing more than one device to achieve a relatively limited interactivity potential.

 Clickability is an important aspect of evaluating a user interface. It is therefore a further objective of the present invention to provide novel multilevel means to create to position and to locate interactivity opportunities related to a moving object to a scene to its background to a part or parts of the audio or video content.

The interactivity opportunities can relate to a particular context of the related story or to an insert not necessarily related to the story. The multilevel means will be disclosed further on as extremely simple. They limit the amount of clicks or pointings needed to execute interactivity commands. They can run on fixed or portable device and software platforms or on interactive CE devices including interactive dolls toys robots and the like with minimal changes and overhead on a multi platform language.

It is also a further objective of the invention to provide a method of signifying the interactivity opportunities which varies little in the sense of software effort between 2D and 3D applications as well as between light applications like clips and heavy applications like a docu fiction or a complex 3D game.

It is another objective of the invention to include variable factoring of user attitude choices and capabilities into the application not only in the choice of targets but also in terms of the outcome of the story. Most maybe all video and AV applications rely on a main character often in close relationship with other characters to convey the story to the user or on one or more narrator s often representing one or more invisible character s belonging to the story. The obvious lack of creating meaningful interactive connections between the user and the one or more characters or the narrator s requires further innovation to provide novel interesting and captivating interactivity opportunities.

Ideas for providing interactive media opportunities have been generated since quite a while. In printed media for example as shown by U.S. Pat. No. 886 172 Bevans 1908 an educational device is disclosed comprising a plurality of sections pivoted together only by a common pivot. Each section thereon has a letter of the alphabet and a pictorial representation designed to be indicated by the letter. For example the 0 section corresponded to Owl the W section to Winkie and the C section to Cock Robin and the 3 sections together to form the word COW shown including the image of a cow. This result appears if the sections were correctly positioned.

The interaction centers around the pivot and the images and words on both sides of the pivot. The idea was simple effective and ingenious at the time leading the user through sort of a pivotal what you see is what you get approach something that we all learned much later to appreciate or not in early personal computing systems.

The subject of interactive systems has further been explored in the eighties on the print level for example by John Brennan Text 1984 Geoff Taylor illustrations in the book The crypts of Terror . With the help of dice pencil and eraser the story in the book can be read and experienced in twists and turns as if the user was the hero of the story. More recently interactive story books have been disclosed such as in U.S. Pat. No. 5 447 439 Nathanson where a first element of information located on a first place is complemented by a relating second and third element coming from 2 parts of a second place. The user mostly a child was involved to a higher degree than in the previous documents but still without having its own input. This document became sort of a precursor of early computer aided tutoring systems such as disclosed in Document U.S. Pat. No. 5 618 180 also Nathanson teaching the use of a computer to achieve very much the same objective as in the previous document.

Around the same time other documents started to appear teaching interactivity resulting from an interface between physical objects like dolls and computers like PCs. WO 97 32200 Kikinis describes an interactive system for training entertaining and habituating a child via a doll having a microphone a speaker a bi directional communication link to a PC data stored in the PC directing doll activity and verbal articulation response from the user through the doll to the PC via audio conversion circuitry commanding verbal and physical articulations of the doll.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 636 995 Sharpe et al discloses the synergy between an interactive story book and a graphic tablet via sound clips by association of touch sensitive areas combined with overlaid paper based images.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 010 405 Morawiec teaches a videogame system where the episodic nature of a particular simulated comic book script is mostly represented by the corresponding videogame source including game data and instructions. A player controlled input device to control movements of the player controlled character is also disclosed.

WO 01 14032 Philyaw et al discloses a sensor based interactive doll located on a node of a global communication network reacting to stimuli by a user or resulting from user conditioned signals to the one or more sensors.

The user is connected with one or more remote nodes on the communication network in connection with HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTML Hypertext Markup Language TCP Transport Control Protocol and IP Internet Protocol and accessing networks by the locator URL Uniform Resource Locator and where the one or more remote nodes return response to the sensors having been activated.

WO 99 00979 Del Castillo discloses a method and system for encoding control data line by line in video frames into the horizontal over scan of video signals. Thus the control data are being synchronized with the underlying video signal and allow controlled devices such as wireless mechanical characters to behave like characters in a play or a scene provide subtitling e mail and other functions.

WO 02 47013 Beck discloses an interactive toy doll or game play apparatus being a powered host containing a game unit RF antennas and playing objects with RFID tags to interactive communication between the doll and the objects directing the user to position the objects correctly relative to the host and giving feedback on that action.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 554 679 Shakelford et al teaches the interactive virtual character of a doll that simulates the character of a live person animal or fantasy figure mostly by displaying needs affection a certain degree of intelligence and or understanding. This is coupled with a real time clock allowing the interactive virtual character doll to run within a user s child s living schedule and with a number of external objects that the user child is supposed to administer to or otherwise use to play with the doll and which the doll is able to identify.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 663 393 Ghaly discloses methods that go much further in putting interactive capability into a play device such as a doll. The play device provides functionality that can base itself on past experience with a user and requires response from a user response which again will be memorized in order to shape the next interaction.

Despite the rising complexity crammed into a particular toy the cited documents fail to establish a level of connivance between the central character or the characters or the narrator s of a story and the user. There is no mention of including and respecting the user presumably an infant within the significant complexity of the device and the game. Additionally playing with these high tech toys turns out to be cumbersome for infants and the reliability of operation decreases with the increasing complexity notwithstanding children s preference for cuddly toys. Some of these interactive dolls robots etc. could be thought of like laboratory versions for the interactive home control systems of the near future. However infants and adults alike react easily to the power of still or moving images and the thrill of participating in the evolving story.

It is therefore a further objective of the present invention to put meaningful interactivity into images or image sequences by providing novel multilevel yet simple visual means to create position locate and interface with interactivity opportunities related to a moving object a scene its background a part or parts of the audio content.

It is also a further objective that the same means treat the response or action of a central or supporting character be it in a physical or virtual embodiment or particular context of the related story. The response or action can correspond to a basic initial attitude choices made and further variations thereof with which the user the central character other characters including a narrator as may be the case approaches or goes through the story.

It is also a further objective of the invention to provide the user with means to modulate the initial attitude and variations thereof to a certain degree within a story. The modulation may reflect his or her own appreciation and attitude towards the content the context and development of the story and may lead accordingly to a set of different outcomes. The modulation may relate to a component or degree of the attitude which he she has programmed for him herself the central character or other characters including a narrator or a particular context as may be the case to approach or go through the story.

It is a further objective of the invention to allow the user to modify the initial attitude and variations thereof into at least one more further means to modulate the further attitude and variations thereof to a certain degree within a story.

It is a further objective of the invention to obtain a number of evolving or simply different outcomes according to a number of the varying degrees of the further attitude which he she has programmed for the central character other characters including a narrator as may be the case to approach or go through the story.

It is a further objective of the invention to allow the story provider to furnish different outcomes of interactive stories according to qualitative appreciation of the user s expressions of attitudes reactions and variations thereof.

It is a further objective of the invention to furnish innovative interactivity training means to complex applications such as 3D games or other I AV applications by using a simple interactive means compatible with video or AV presentation of a story and of a simplified sequence thereof.

It is a further objective that the training means according to the invention may illustrate the interactivity opportunities related to an object a character to a scene its background to a part or parts of the audio content or a particular context of the related story. The training means will relate the interactivity results according to a particular attitude and variations thereof with which the central character other characters including a narrator as may be the case to approach or go through the story. As can be easily imagined these training means can be applied to full fledged heavy applications such as 3D games or other complex AV applications.

It is a further objective of the invention to provide additionally to the graphic embodiment a virtual AV embodiment or a physical embodiment of the central character other characters the narrator or a combination thereof as the case may be the physical embodiment carrying AV means for communication and interactivity.

It is also a further objective of the invention in anyone of these physical embodiments to carry means to transfer a tutorial a summary or an introduction to a suitable fixed or mobile interactive support. By this transfer the physical embodiment will show via the novel means how to create to position locate and interface with interactivity opportunities. The opportunities can be related to the interactive system and its components a moving object to a scene to its background to a part or parts of the audio content to a particular context of the related story.

It is a further objective of the invention to relate to the user a response or action of the interactive system and its components like a central or supporting character be it in a physical or virtual embodiment. The responses or actions can further correspond to a basic first attitude choices and variations thereof with which the central character other characters or the narrator as may be the case approach or go through the story and how variations of the first attitude can affect the outcome of the story. Along the lines of progress in technology content manipulation and content itself has been progressing in order to provide the user with more and more interactivity means.

More recently as listed below electronic game content has been created to provide interactive episodic content delivery to a user to allow behavioral learning to provide virtual world environments having communication clusters and to respond to interrupt conditions such as occur in fast paced interactive systems like car races war games and other I AV content where pace space domination and surprise effects are key content elements.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 669 564 Young et al discloses a system method and apparatus to deliver episodic delivery of entertainment content to users. Indeed one of the challenges of episodic delivery relates to incorporating technology updates into new entertainment episode delivery over remote servers to a user.

WO 0146910 Hatlelid et al disclose a method to create behavioral modification and behavioral learning based on utterances relating to gesture commands and leading to behavioral rules fitted with arbitrary weights to accommodate similarities in utterances and meaning.

WO0133327A1 Hatletid et al discloses a system of chat clusters in a virtual world using avatars and their behavior to indicate to the user which participants in the chat clusters are conversing with each other and which ones are available for approach.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 733 383 B2 Buses et al teaches simulating state changes of computer games based on interrupt conditions generated by a computer including the possibility for the user to select responses to the interrupt conditions.

US 2003 0180700 A1 Barry et al discloses a user controlled educational program allowing the user to select the learning method and the relevant material and to share information within and outside of the learning system.

WO03041393A2 Arnold et al discloses a real time interactive video system. It relies on the user watching real time content on TV having a separate viewer interaction platform ready such as a personal computer a set top box or wireless means such as a PDA or a mobile phone to access pre stored content frames on an internet server and from there decide which frame or pixel object on a frame to select and thus access a new content source or resource platform. This fact indicates that for most users it may not end up to be easy to use real time interactive system given the difficulty of providing real time interactivity in an analog world.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 253 238 Lauder et al describes an interactive CTV Cable TV system with a frame grabber which is controlled by a remote processor communicating with home interface controllers over the cable network and which for a viewer selected input frame generates an output frame which can be converted into a TV information signal. However the world is becoming more digital every day and this digital evolution helps to overcome some of the cited problems.

For example US 2002 0124004 A1 Reed at al describes a multimedia search system which takes advantage of at the time recent technology to present state of the art text picture audio and animated data retrieval with limited interactivity and fun in the interaction. On the other hand a growing number of ways of complexity and of means of access to multimedia content via an increasing number of devices and delivery channels may lead to increasingly complex systems and methods for media management. For example WO 2004 088664 Bettridge et al discloses a method for middleware controlling metadata associated with various media items in a media editing system in which a plurality of media items are related in a parent child relationship in one way or two way propagation way from one media to another.

US 2004 0148636 Weinstein et al discloses a method and system for browsing interactive broadcast and web information content which are presented together where the presented web information is fully interactive and where the user can rely on all known features of state of the art interactive web presentation. It is easy to see for the person skilled in the art that many media assets in today s interactive non linear multimedia story telling content do not always easily permit to establish firm parent child and other associative relationships. It appears to the inventors that metadata could tend to become nearly as diverse and complex if not more so than the media themselves.

Hence the inventors saw the need to provide interactive user and metadata interface means which deal efficiently with the diverse and growing interactive multimedia environment yet are simple and effective. Much effort has also gone in developing the fields of streaming and workflow methods for authoring transmitting linking and managing multimedia assets MAM and multimedia metadata. As mentioned above the latter field is closely related to the objectives of the present invention.

WO 0045294A1 Chan et al discloses a media metadata storage structure consisting of a number of storage entities related to the media materials.

WO 04057438A2 Chang et al discloses a metadata authoring system for multimedia applications specifically for content browsing and editing purposes.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 523 046B2 Liu et al discloses an infrastructure for providing access to multimedia file metadata provided in any set of known and supported formats like TIFF GIF BMP IMG and the like which are rendered in a generic format by suitable metadata decoders.

WO 04049199 A2 Incertis teaches linking target files to a main file by encoding the target addresses URLs of these target files into the primary filename of the main file.

EP 0941607B1 Chapman et al discloses a system and method for set top boxes to display content in response to viewer input and related to categories of information.

WO 02058383A1 Hensgen et al discloses receiving a broadcast of a program containing a plurality of perspectives of the program presenting at least one of the plurality of perspectives to the viewer and displaying recorded perspectives to the viewer without interrupting the broadcast.

WO 0169369A1 Delpuch discloses a system and method of choosing an item from a list of items appearing on a screen by scrolling through the list and where the scrolling process is slowed down for the user in function of a certain condition or quality of the item selected via the scrolling process.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 400 996 Hoffberg et al discloses an adaptive interface for programmable content delivery based on user preference history which are transformed into preferred program indicators which themselves are included in a program category having weighted preference values as well as on machine status and context data.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 418 424 Hoffberg et al discloses an adaptive user interface for predicting a desired user function based on his her user history and on machine internal status and context.

WO 05008993A1 Fablet describes a document related to a server network and features necessary for validating multimedia documents in function of the MPEG 7 description of the documents.

In the context of metadata management it might be useful to cite the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative an authorative specification of metadata terms http dublincore.org . One has to consider however that such standards and specifications are continuously evolving and hence same as other standards related to the field of the invention cannot be considered limiting for the purpose of the invention.

For example so called Middle ware exists to provide end to end solutions spanning from the source end head end of content reception and storage for TV channels to VoD Web portals etc and to the consumer. In this context advertising clips which in order to be attractive tend to turn into content hence will be referred to as sponsoring content for the purpose of the invention. In contrast the main content meaning the essence the asset the movie the game the edutainment the docu fiction the live show or event and the like as described above will be called main content for the purpose of the invention.

As mentioned before addressing the integration of sponsoring main and total content data called metadata Data about data are increasingly used to identify and to link the various components of total content together in order to furnish a seamless stream of multimedia to the viewer or user. Hence the invention relates to metadata as a link to and an active part of the innovative multilevel user interface but is not limited to metadata. Metadata are usually but not exclusively located within the logic layer meaning between the user connected presentation layer and the content or asset layer called data layer . In some cases metadata are located within the content layer itself for content description and are suitably connected within and between these layers.

Content encoding technologies like MPEG 2 Windows Media MPEG 4 metadata management tools or container formats like MPEG 7 QuickTime FlashPix and XML based content descriptions and other file formats like AAF MFX related description schemes and the like. These technologies and tools strive to organize content and metadata and can be realized in very simple as well as in very complex interactive structures. The file formats are conceived to be preferably agnostic to the metadata schemes in order to allow utmost flexibility to content editors and broadcasters in the definition and control of metadata. Content organization and retrieval is mostly structured according to spatial temporal and visual data types as well as according to content relationships. Metadata are generally separated or categorized into content description a term which seems self explanatory. They are further separated into segmentation description which relates to timing and sequencing relationships between diverse contents into instantiation description relating to a program schedule for the selection of a particular content sponsoring main or spontaneous and into consumer metadata which relate to the consumer s history and preference of content usage. The tendencies to create composite digital items incorporating metadata into the main or sponsoring content itself or vice versa into the multimedia servers into the digital capture and reproducing devices and the like will lead to blurring of definitions for some time and maybe will exist in albeit a few economically viable cross over variants for times to come but metadata are set to remain the content interface path with user interface items in the years to come.

US 20050033760A1 Fuller et al discloses a digital capture system capture relating to capturing images via a digital camera or a digital recording device which allows to extract format and store metadata and combine them with digital content data in suitable formats such as MPEG 7 QuickTime FlashPix and the like.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 850 252 Hoffberg discloses an intelligent electronic appliance embodied preferably by a set top box for interfacing the user the appliance and broadband media streams and having a metadata processing system compliant among others with MPEG 7 data and incorporating digital rights management features.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 748 382 Mohan et al describes a system and method for describing and managing media assets via storage techniques a central repository meaning a digital library and a standard description scheme and tools allowing for media asset management using XML.

US 20030179824A1 Kan et al discloses a method of using the MPEG 7 descriptor technique via object segmentation in order to extract store and segment video object planes into a plurality of regions by color transformation and the watershed segmentation process.

US 20030187950A1 Rising discloses a system for selecting digital material objects containing MPEG 7 content descriptions via a query generation tool and a search engine looking for MPEG 7 META tag information.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 411 724 Vaithilingam et al discloses a multimedia information retrieval system which uses meta descriptors in addition to descriptors of the multimedia information or feature descriptors.

US 20010054150A1 Levy discloses watermark embedding in a media object in order to specify how the media is to be rendered by combining identification information location information and information specifying the use of the watermark for various media types and formats parts of the media object and the desired rendering quality.

JP 2001 086434A2 Park et al discloses the use of a degree of motion description method via MPEG 7 decoder retrieval and decoding.

JP 2003 256432A2 Hiki Haruo teaches retrieval of image and voice materials in an archive database using an MPEG 7 file via a genre dictionary a remote retrieval edit terminal and further edit devices.

JP 2004 153782A2 Huang Zhongyang et al discloses a method to provide digital item adaptation DIA for example for advertisement metadata using XML and according to MPEG 21 and defining negotiation mechanisms for transmitting exchanging updating the DIA and mostly adapting the digital item so that its content can be transmitted between different kinds of devices according to their respectively different capabilities.

WO03075575A1 Huang Zhongyang et al discloses a step wise de multiplexing retrieving and extracting method interpreting meanings out of the DID Digital Item Declaration according to MPEG 21 and interpret the actual meanings of each DID element and transferring the element to the IPMP intellectual property and management parser for activating the IPMP protection and management tools.

WO03071807A1 Vetro discloses a method and system to consistently adapt a digital item according to MPEG 21 via coherent modification of the item s resource and the corresponding resource descriptor. MPEG 21 as an emerging standard is defining a multimedia framework to enable transparent use across an up to date range of networks and devices by implementing the notion of a fundamental unit of transaction called a digital item . The digital item is defined as a structured digital object having a standard representation and identification as well as associated metadata or other descriptors of resources contained in the digital item such as multimedia main or sponsoring content.

Given the complexity and data processing overhead of some of these systems and the yet sometimes rudimentary means of interactivity presented to the user it becomes clear that the interactive system domain needs innovation. It lacks simple pervasive and innovative ways to communicate between the system its virtual actors and the user be it a gamer a student or a TV viewer. Given the plethora of choice the user wants TV gaming news clips ads sports etc his way but none of the cited prior art seems to take into account the user and his her growing confusion about the enormity of choice as well as the complexity of migrating between applications.

The user might however also want maybe definitely sometimes always most of the time or never to know about explore and enjoy opportunities for interactive usage without disturbing too much the main content just being viewed. Also none of the cited prior art seems to take into account the content providers e.g. the authors producers broadcasters and the sponsors who far beyond well known POS point of sales tactics would like to know more about the user than his name and address. They need to acquire this knowledge in order to tailor the content offering or just to know about the user s reaction to an ad to a main content or about a reason for a particular vote on a candidate a show or any item that requires such information and evolution according to user demand. This on line information gathering should not distract the viewer from enjoying content primarily destined for entertainment education or information exchange and at the same time it needs to comply with privacy laws in a variety of countries. This ensemble of seemingly disparate but nevertheless coherent and durable challenges is what struck the applicants as a field needing a simple inventive innovative pervasive and practical means and a universal metadata sub system for interactive digital content access and usage.

The innovative means are created to satisfy both the user s and the content provider s needs to be compatible with present standards techniques and technologies and to able to evolve easily into the future. It is therefore an objective of the invention to provide the content providers and the user with simple means to structure highly interactive main and sponsored content and to let different users approach the same story in different ways.

It is also an objective of the invention to let the content provider furnish different outcomes that relate to these different user approaches and hence create evolving interactive content or characters.

It is also an objective of the invention to provide simple tools to insert interactive means into a story during the initial authoring of the story or during programmed insertion of media like adverts or during live insertion of content like sports or news basically in any stage of configuring content.

It is further an objective of the invention to provide links between the stories to let the user migrate freely between them.

It is further an objective of the invention to let the user modify his approach and rate his her feeling of the corresponding experience and communicate and compare with other users.

To this end multilevel semiotic means with fuzzy logic descriptor sets coupled to the multimedia metadata form the basis of the inventive interactive multimedia system and are coupled to an evidential reasoning based on cognitive semiotic multimedia expert system. The means are used to reach these objectives in unprecedented manner effectiveness and simplicity. The notion of fuzzy logic appeared first in 1965 when its inventor Professor Lotfi Zadeh published a paper called Fuzzy Sets. Zadeh L. A. 1965 Fuzzy Sets Information and Control 8 pp 45 to 67. Ref Prof. Zadeh Director Graduate School Berkeley Initiative in Soft Computing BISC University of California . Since then fuzzy logic and fuzzy expert systems have made their way into an enormous amount of successful products and means to control devices cars and industrial processes to profile investors clients risks to provide data compression algorithms for video and audio data including MPEG applications and Artificial Intelligence AI gaming. The products and means are used to extract essence out of data to process images and sounds to build expert and decision making systems such as EP 0 748 482 by the same inventor. Fuzzy logic systems and fuzzy expert systems can easily be programmed in C or in Java source code their representation and user interface through applets is very common the organization usually includes HTML files class files domain files rule files etc.

Lotfi Zadeh stated the principle of incompatibility As the complexity of a system increases our ability to make precise and significant statements about its behavior diminishes until a threshold is reached beyond which precision and significance become almost mutually exclusive characteristics. This statement certainly applies to the complexity of the interactive multimedia system including its interface with the user and explains why the inventors chose the route of applying fuzzy logic to the means for interactivity according to the invention. Computing with words instead of or additionally to numbers and processing perceptions instead of or additionally to measurements is well suited to describe and to evaluate the qualitative and sometimes even emotional relationship between the user and the content viewing interface between the user and the content and between the user and the content providers and sponsors.

The inventors further innovate the notion of computing with words by introducing the notion of computing with fuzzy multilevel semiotic expressions . The expressions according to the invention consist of multilevel semiotic means directly corresponding and related fuzzy logic semiotic descriptors as will be described further on. The use of semiotics for the production of meaning has been an interesting topic at least since the commercial advertisement 1984 produced for the introduction of Apple s Macintosh and continues to be so with some icons used in computer user interfaces Shopping cart folder garbage bin . Cigarette advertising Silk Cut or Marlboro Monument Valley plus cowboy scenery etc and other emotionally directed advertising and publications about symbolic representations like for example the Statue of Liberty follow the path shown among others by the famous 1984 advertisement.

 See study Visual Semiotics and the Production of Meaning in Advertising published by the Visual Communication Division of AEJMC Washington D.C. August 1995 

Semiotics or semiology as it is called in France is a philosophical approach that goes beyond linguistics to interpret messages in terms of signs and symbolisms using systems of signification. Semiology from the Greek semeion sign . Signs can be conveyed by 2 D or 3D visual means as well as by acoustic and physical means like gestures movements and any type of combinations thereof. According to Ferdinand de Saussure Swiss linguist 1857 1913 the term semiology can be divided into 2 components the signifier and the signified as can be today best understood from the cigarette advertising. See also Clefs pour la Linguistique by George Mounin Seghers Paris 1968 and The Cognitive Semiotics of Film by Warren Buckland Cambridge University Press 2000 . Patterns of meaning in signs can be categorized as iconic symbolic and indexical according to C. S Pierce.

Semiotics have been known and used for various applications of in data representations. U.S. Pat. No. 5 632 009 Rao et al discloses an indirect data representation system and method via an image table including graphical objects representing indirectly the data values in an underlying data array. U.S. Pat. No. 6 834 280 Auspitz et al discloses a semiotic analysis system including a computer readable medium and method and consisting of a computer and a searchable database containing pieces of media. Portions of the media pieces and of the search query are associated with semiotic describers and signifiers. The describer indicates a semiotic property of the related portion for example a relationship between portions of a media piece or how a portion is used or interpreted or its effect. The semiotic describers in the sense of U.S. Pat. No. 6 834 280 are mostly combinations of letters in triadic relations of the object the sign and the effect of the sign on a potential interpreter.

EP 1231544A3 Sugeno et al discloses an everyday language based computing system including a semiotic base to structure a system of meaning of the everyday language and thus generating a translated text.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 116 907 Baker et al discloses a method and system to encode signs in a given sign language and represents a useful but not really interactive solution to communicating via visual signals using two representations for a dominant and a second sign to convey content via sign language.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 584 470 Veale discloses a set or sets of signatures and signature based rules whereby a rule contains a name concatenating the signatures in the rule and relates to information retrieval IR systems. The document relates to the difficulty of developing systems of meaning operating on various levels of meaning simultaneously and in natural languages. It relates more to using words or combinations of words to extract information from process words than on other semiotic means.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 636 242 B2 Bowman discloses a view configurer basically a system and method to assign a view to a particular activity within a multilayered activity.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 275 817 B1 Reed et al disclose a semiotic decision making system which uses semiotic processing modules a knowledge database containing information transformed into sets of symbols by the modules. The knowledge database is used to make decisions relating to queries about the information.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 394 263 B1 McCrory discloses a configurable semiotic decision making system including a sensor for sensing input data.

None of this prior art uses semiotics for interactivity such as would be applied to everyday interactive multimedia usage none uses multilevel semiotics and none uses fuzzy logic to convey multilevel qualitative verbal descriptors. None of the prior art documents uses multilevel semiotics and fuzzy logic descriptors to relate directly the particular multilevel semiotic means or set of means to individual levels and to the respective application and user related meanings expressed by a particular semiotic means or set of means. None of the prior art documents uses fuzzy logic descriptors to relate directly to different level user qualification signified by his use of a multilevel semiotic sign. Indeed according to the state of the art and in themselves semiotic signs are used not at all or used very little for example for functions beyond drag and drop into a shopping cart a folder or the waste bin as known from current single level and single meaning user interfaces.

Interactive TV IATV as well as interactive advertising IAAd is defined by a digital broadcasting and receiving infrastructure such as a digital TV with a set top box STB together with a return path cable satellite . . . for the reaction from the viewer to the broadcaster. The IATV user needs to identify an easily recognizable means to allow such return interactivity when requested from the program contents. In certain European countries for example the UK France Spain digital interactive broadcast channels use a dedicated remote control device that carries a red button as will be explained here after.

Advertising campaigns for IATV range from web style banner advertising to an enhanced TV style call to action blinking icon that links to a DAL a Dedicated Advertiser Location. Source Interactive Television Advertising Video Vault in Interactive TV Videos www.broadbandbananas.com . shows the current state of the art in Interactive TV advertising IAAd based on known Interactive TV IATV campaigns. The discipline of interactive advertising is used here for the simplicity of explanatory arguments because its future developments point to increased interactive capabilities. It is also shown because the new capabilities can relate well to other interactive mixed content applications. Telescoping adverts into main content can be likened to converting linear into interactive content or creating interactive content.

An interactive application inserted into a main content according to such advertising campaigns for IATV carries built in audio textual or visual invitations that are supposed to lead a user to an intended interaction. Such approach has become known under the name red button approach and is called the press red behavior because an interactive opportunity is signaled by a red button on the main content and the user is supposed to press a specific red button on his TV remote control device to use the return path in order to trigger a reaction. During the interactive add appearance the main content is usually interrupted.

Other prior art user interfaces such as WO 2005 040991 Liberty et al disclose improvements of the pointing devices providing free space pointing capability by incorporating accelerometers into the devices. WO 2004 102522 A1 Hunleth et al disclose helically arranged menus containing lists of media items to be selected each item being represented by a section on the 3D helical surface. The user can select items either by pointing devices or by combination of pointing and wheel devices. WO 2004 102285 A3 Hunleth et al teaches a control framework with a zoomable graphical user interface for organizing and using a number of media items coupled to an optional free space control device for pointing scrolling zooming and the like user interactivity functions.

None of the prior art documents uses multilevel semiotic means and multilevel fuzzy logic sets as disclosed by the present invention to provide multimedia interactivity as well as to provide a basis for a deductive evolutionary or evidential reasoning cognitive expert system. It is therefore an objective of the present invention to use multilevel semiotic means and multilevel fuzzy logic sets to provide variable multimedia interactivity to the user as well as a basis for an expert system evaluating qualitative user behavior and decisions and providing variable content outcome based on the qualitative data.

It is further an objective of the invention to allow a great degree of flexibility in adapting to various legislations ruling the privacy of information.

It is finally an objective of the invention to present a technological solution which effectively and coherently closes the interactivity loop between the user and the application which is simple to implement and compatible with prevailing and evolving international standards techniques and technologies.

As described from the objectives of the invention it becomes clear that it situates itself in the field of organizing the stream of a large variety of interactive audio and AV content assets digital items or other resources produced and broadcasted to the user via an equally large variety of devices. The invention of fuzzy multilevel semiotic interactivity means results in an innovative interactive user interface tool tied to a universal metadata interface tool together called means for interactivity for the purpose of the following description of the invention. It also results in an innovative user interface which remains simple and coherent to the user within all the diversity of interactive content considered for the purpose of the invention.

The means for interactivity according to the invention may be implemented by software and hence incorporate themselves into the prevailing and evolving international multimedia standards techniques and technologies. To date these are best represented but not limited by MPEG 7 MPEG 21 by storage formats like AAF and MFX document and file formats like XML for textual data like MPEG 2 MPEG 4 or Windows Media Series 9.0 for still or dynamic pictures by various open source implementations or by media sub systems like QuickTime or as well as by related metadata structures like UMID by network protocols like TCP IP UDP RTP or RTSP.

Development environments and platforms like Java or J2ME and the like components like applets and the like and languages like ANSI C C are common in this field. Given the simplicity and versatility of the inventive means for interactivity according to the invention applet like applications can be written in C or as Applets in Java language.

The applications can be organized in HTML files project files project class files with Java classes for fuzzy rules linguistic variables result boundaries constraints inference expert system frames etc to fulfill the functional requirements as will become clear from the detailed description.

The person familiar with the art of multimedia item programming will easily see that these and other software tools are readily available to produce the innovative means for multilevel interactivity according to the invention as well as a variety core soft and middle wares to incorporate the functionality into interactive environments including applications on portable devices. Even though the means according to the invention will be mostly described in relation to software functionality it might be implemented partially or totally within specialized hardware. The hardware can be CE consumer electronics multimedia control devices other electronic devices or parts of devices and systems with embedded software functionality corresponding to the inventive means for interactivity using suitable support to accept and channel interactive content containing metadata interface points or other suitable software hooks to call on the inventive means for interactivity.

In more detail the user interface means according to the present invention is in fact a multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic interface means the interface means providing interface to both user and metadata. In the absence of a dedicated metadata system the user interface means according to the present invention can take the form of a simple interactive multimedia organizing metadata system. On the graphic level the user interface is multilevel semiotic meaning the user addresses a selectable semiotic graphic display item as defined by the invention which offers various levels of addressability. This is the first user interface part of the multilevel semiotic user interface means . These GUI means are hence linked to the user. The same GUI interface means are also linked via software to the system metadata in an interactive way first via qualitative descriptor sets pertaining to the multilevel semiotic means. The qualitative aspect of the user interaction is translated into fuzzy sets meaning everyday language descriptions like very hot half dead or somewhat interested which are compounded into rules expressing behavioural usage preference frequency conviction and other levels of attitude or emotion that can be attributed to the user s choice by addressing a particular level of the multilevel semiotic user interface. This means that firstly these descriptor sets serve simply to identify the user s choices and to put a label on the choices. He she s doing this or that . These descriptor sets further serve to attribute meaning or significance to these this or that label or choice. The particular significance or level of significance of a choice is directly related to the importance that the user s choice has been given in direct relation to the particular application. Choosing a specific level in a particular application might mean that the customer expresses a level of interest in an advertisement makes a choice of a medium level of information professes a high level of knowledge in a test expresses a particular vote in a poll chooses a particular path in a game a particular bet in a race or an unedited sequence in a moving pictures type of content or similar attitudes and choices in the context of any other AV content.

Hence the qualitative descriptor sets become the interactively meaningful link between the user and the application. This normally passes via the metadata system or other middleware. But since not everything is MPEG and hence if there may be no metadata system per se to an multimedia application the logic layer as it will be explained below becomes the de facto metadata system it just has to be complemented by the normal content metadata which will relate mostly to content identity and rights.

Thirdly these descriptor sets are tied into a qualitative logic processing system. The system of choice according to the invention is a fuzzy logic based logic layer . A logic layer forms normally part of any metadata system and normally determines purely go no go or sequential choices plus other content author provider and authorization related data. In the case of the present invention the logic layer uses fuzzy logic meaning a qualitative attribute processing logic which turns the metadata interface into an interactive logic content management system . This means that the system reacts logically and in an evolutionary way according to qualitative rules derived from the user s preferences from randomly injected conditions and from interactive opportunities offered by a respective content. The interactive opportunities offered by the content according to the invention are coherent with the multilevel semiotic GUI the corresponding qualitative descriptor sets and the rules developed in the interactive logic content management system. The GUI the descriptor sets and the logic are normally built in at the authoring stage and have significance with the application. They can also be retrofitted on existing multimedia content or a mixture of multimedia contents to render them interactive.

The random injections of qualitative conditions weighing factors or other twists of fate serve to provide an element of surprise or suspense in order to avoid strictly evolutionary rule based system response with corresponding boredom. Further the experience data accumulated and contained in this logic layer meaning the interactive logic content management system are used to build a kind of a personal multimedia expert system completed by external input like SMS blogs podcasts extracts of websites and other broadcast or download information related to the application. This expert system will mainly try to achieve 3 things 

Thus thanks to the present invention it is possible to learn preferences tendencies and habits of a user i.e. of viewer of the multimedia representation as well as to make more efficient use of the return channel of an interactive system. More specifically in accordance with a first illustrative embodiment of the present invention a multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface means apparatus for varying content manipulation of an interactive multimedia representation in a multimedia system is provided in which the multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface means apparatus includes a an interactive user interface means comprising at least one multilevel semiotic means addressable by a user and a fuzzy logic descriptor set module for storing multiple fuzzy logic descriptor sets wherein each fuzzy logic descriptor set is related to a respective level of each of the multilevel semiotic means and describes at least one level of significance of interactivity corresponding to the respective level of each of the multilevel semiotic means wherein the level of significance is directly related to the importance of a level addressed and thus selected by the user of the multilevel semiotic means wherein each fuzzy logic descriptor set defines at least one fuzzy semiotic membership function definable by and based on the addressing of a level of each of the multilevel semiotic means and at least one significance attributed to the level b a metadata layer for linking the multilevel semiotic means to interactivity points present in the content of the multimedia representation and defined by the metadata layer such that each level of each of the multilevel semiotic means identifies an interactivity point in the content and allows by selection of the interactivity point to perform a selectively varying content manipulation and to receive a resulting interactive presentation of content according to the selection and c a user control device for addressing the multilevel semiotic means. In accordance with a second non limiting embodiment of the invention the first embodiment is modified so that it additionally includes d a logic layer for storing the fuzzy logic descriptor set module and further storing a user preference engine that defines a user profile based on the addressing of a user of a level of the multilevel semiotic means.

In accordance with a third illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment or the second embodiment is further modified so that it further includes a content layer for storing a content resource and access module and wherein the metadata layer maps the interactivity points to content resources stored in the content resource and access module. In accordance with a fourth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the second embodiment is further modified so that the logic layer further comprises a fuzzy pondering factor level comprising pondering factors like time duration of staying within the content of a multilevel semiotic means level sequence of addressing a multilevel semiotic means level and the like pondering factors or random interjections expressed in fuzzy logic functions and applied to the interactive process between the user and the system.

In accordance with a fifth illustrative embodiment of the invention the second embodiment is further modified so that the logic layer further comprises a cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system for evaluating the user profile. In accordance with a sixth illustrative embodiment of the invention the fifth embodiment is further modified so that the cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system comprises i a content inference module where the pre programmed fuzzy descriptor sets belonging to the multilevel semiotic sign to the content and to the fuzzy pondering factors are put into context with the real time user actions and expressed as user preference rules within the context of the application ii a random function generator that can inject random behavior character compliance or defiance surprise or tension elements iii an adaptive expert system processor and iv a data evaluation module.

In accordance with a seventh illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment and the sixth embodiment are further modified so that each level of the multilevel semiotic means comprises one or more sub levels addressable by the user. In accordance with an eighth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment and the seventh embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic means can be displayed in the interactive content.

In accordance with a ninth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment and the eighth embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic means can be displayed on the user control device. In accordance with a tenth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the ninth embodiment is further modified so that the multilevel semiotic means can be downloaded onto the user control device by external communication means.

In accordance with an eleventh illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment the eighth embodiment the ninth embodiment and the tenth embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic means consists of a plurality of concentric circles each circle representing an addressable level. In accordance with a twelfth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment the eighth embodiment the ninth embodiment the tenth embodiment and the eleventh embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic means consists of a plurality of similar shapes arranged as a Russian nesting doll each nested shape representing an addressable level. In accordance with a thirteenth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment the eighth embodiment the ninth embodiment the tenth embodiment and the eleventh embodiment and the twelfth embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic means is a semiotic iconic symbolic indexical or other semiotic sign.

In accordance with a fourteenth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment the eighth embodiment the ninth embodiment the tenth embodiment the eleventh embodiment the twelfth embodiment and the thirteenth embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface means is complemented or triggered by interactive exchange between user and application and between users via the application of images music sounds vibrations pressure scents imprints temperature breath and other physico chemical expressions of emotions or other qualitative reactions. In accordance with a fifteenth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment the eighth embodiment the ninth embodiment the tenth embodiment the eleventh embodiment the twelfth embodiment the thirteenth embodiment and the fourteenth embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic means is operable to communicate with the user in spoken or otherwise sound related fashion and where the user communicates with the multilevel semiotic means in spoken or otherwise sound related fashion. In accordance with a sixteenth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the fifteenth embodiment is further modified so that certain spoken or otherwise sound related messages are linked to a particular level of the multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface means and to the corresponding fuzzy descriptor levels.

In accordance with a seventeenth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment the eighth embodiment the ninth embodiment the tenth embodiment the eleventh embodiment the twelfth embodiment the thirteenth embodiment the fourteenth embodiment the fifteenth embodiment and the sixteenth embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic means is displayed for a predetermined period of time during which a user may address it. In accordance with an eighteenth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the seventeenth embodiment is further modified so that the user preference engine is arranged to update the user profile when no level is addressed within the predetermined period of time or when a level is addressed. In accordance with a nineteenth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the second embodiment is further modified so that it further comprises information output means for reading the user profiles externally.

In accordance with a twentieth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment the second embodiment the third embodiment the fourth embodiment the fifth embodiment the sixth embodiment the seventh embodiment the eighth embodiment the ninth embodiment the tenth embodiment the eleventh embodiment the twelfth embodiment the thirteenth embodiment the fourteenth embodiment the fifteenth embodiment the sixteenth embodiment the seventeenth embodiment the eighteenth embodiment and the nineteenth embodiment are further modified so that the multilevel semiotic sign includes in one of its levels an electronic address allowing a user to send immediately a voice text AV or combined message preformatted or open to the electronic address. In accordance with a twenty first illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twentieth embodiment is further modified so that the electronic address corresponds to an SMS an MMS or other fixed and mobile communication address such as an e mail an URL or the like addressable by fixed and portable AV and text communication means. In accordance with a twenty second illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twentieth embodiment is further modified so that a content of the message is used as a pondering in the evaluation of the user.

In accordance with a twenty third illustrative embodiment of the present invention the sixth embodiment is further modified so that the cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system further comprises a data evaluation module for processing data and files related to user content interactivity content resource preferences or results of qualitative voting betting selecting and the like. In accordance with a twenty fourth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twenty third embodiment is further modified so that the cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system further comprises a content evaluation module for further off line processing of the data and files processed by the data evaluation module. In accordance with a twenty fifth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the sixth embodiment is further modified so that a first multilevel semiotic means is provided and once selected by the user control device at least a second multilevel semiotic means and a number of other semiotic signs representing objects items situations characteristics and the like are provided and are selectable by the user control device. In accordance with a twenty sixth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twenty fifth embodiment is further modified so that the number of other semiotic signs are also multilevel signs wherein each respective level identifies an attribute of the item signified by the sign an object a character a situation a characteristic and the like. In accordance with a twenty seventh illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twenty fifth embodiment or the twenty sixth embodiment is further modified so that the number of other semiotic signs correspond to actual objects and the like existing in the content. In accordance with a twenty eighth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twenty fifth the twenty sixth and the twenty seventh embodiments are further modified so that the cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system further comprises a content resource and access module for generating different episodes and outcomes as a function of the selected objects. In accordance with a twenty ninth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twenty fifth embodiment the twenty sixth embodiment the twenty seventh embodiment and the twenty eighth embodiment are further modified so that the objects are linked to the at least second multilevel semiotic means as a function of which a corresponding fuzzy logic descriptor set is arranged to define a corresponding fuzzy semiotic membership function based on the selection and linkage of the objects between the first and at least second multilevel semiotic means. In accordance with a thirtieth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twenty fifth embodiment the twenty sixth embodiment the twenty seventh embodiment the twenty eighth embodiment and the twenty ninth embodiment are further modified so that the cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system is arranged to analyze the corresponding fuzzy descriptor sets which result from the users choices as well as some fuzzy pondering factors and user preference rules established by the content inference module so as to address the content resource and access module.

In accordance with a thirty first embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment through the thirtieth embodiment are further modified so that the multimedia representation is a documentary a docu fiction an interactive AV representation or the like. In accordance with a thirty second illustrative embodiment of the present invention the first embodiment through the thirty first embodiment are further modified so that the multimedia representation is a game. In accordance with a thirty third illustrative embodiment of the present invention the thirty second embodiment is further modified so that the game is a multiplayer game having a first player that is the user of the user control device and having a second player that is virtual. In accordance with a thirty fourth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the thirty second embodiment is further modified so that the game is a multiplayer game having a first player that is the user of the user control device and having a second player that is a second user. In accordance with a thirty fifth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the twenty fifth embodiment the twenty sixth embodiment and the twenty seventh embodiment are further modified so that the meanings of the second multilevel semiotic means relate to surprise danger comfort state of mind physical conditions mental preparedness level of security and the like attributes and conditions and wherein the meanings relate to the content as well as to the user or external factors. In accordance with a thirty sixth illustrative embodiment of the present invention the thirty second embodiment the thirty third embodiment and the thirty fourth embodiment are further modified so that the meanings of the second multilevel semiotic means express attitude character or role aspects of the user and at least a second player in the game.

The inventive means for interactivity will become clear from the following detailed description of the core and the embodiments of the invention.

A detailed description will now be explained in 5 parts of interactivity functionalities and system interactions as shown in but not limited to the following descriptions 

An example of a multilevel iconic sign is shown in the top image of where a representation of a dog is used as the iconic semiotic sign . The multiple levels of this signs may be defined by the tail the ears the legs or the paws where each level represents a potential level of interest of the user and a potential meaning for the interactivity like running for legs emotions for tail sniffing out for nose and the like. Each of these semiotic meanings might have different levels of meaning. For example the nose might move faster and the sound of sniffing might be added if the interactive search action becomes more intensive whereas it might not move at all if there is nothing there .

An example of a multilevel symbolic sign is shown in the middle image of where a representation of a heart is used as the symbolic semiotic sign . By providing several hearts within a heart in the way of a 2D or 3D Russian nesting dolls several levels of meaning can be established.

An example of a multilevel indexical sign is shown in the bottom image of where a plurality of concentric circles is used as the target like indexical semiotic sign . As already mentioned each circle represents a level of the multilevel sign similar to the hearts described above. Indeed according to the invention signs images sounds words movements positions of objects hidden objects and the like can be used alone or in combination for the function of multilevel visual semiotic user interface.

Iconic signs look sound or smell directly like what they represent some well known examples are visual signs like folders garbage bins and shopping cart icons in today s PC graphic interfaces. Symbolic signs carry a meaning that is often established by convention by cultural implication by tradition and the like and are often visual. Well known symbolic examples are the heart shape as a sign for love the Statue of Liberty but also certain songs poems or sayings as signs for independence the Yellow Rose of Texas sign and song for a US State the Eiffel Tower as well as posters or songs by certain artists as signs for Paris or thumps up for optimism or OK the latter being in itself a semiotic symbol.

In conventional applications for example in interactive advertising IAAd as shown hereafter with reference to a single level red button sign is used as an invitation for viewing interactive advertising opportunities such as press red button now . Symbolic signs hence can be at least visual and sound based as well as combinations of the two and other means of expression as long as they are symbols for something.

Indexical signs carry clues that link them to a real object state phenomenon and the like. Fortune cookies may be a semiotic sign used to convey hidden messages and may have different depths or levels for a message or messages. Well known indexical signs are smoke as a sign for fire a sign that exists also in the form of linguistic expressions in some cultures. Certain sounds like finger snapping or movements like thumps up again are indexical semiotic signs.

A shape outline and levels of an outline of a multilevel semiotic means according to the present invention can be spatial 2D or 3D temporal it can be sound or other sequence based like movements gestures colors or differences in properties of external semiotic supportive materials or media like texture liquids scents resistance and the like. It can be the wagging of a plush dog s tail in response to a related interactive part of a multimedia content being played on a connected IA system including the same action performed by the animated version of the plush dog inside the multimedia content.

In the simplest form the multilevel semiotic means according to the present invention can be of a generally known geometric shape outline or contour. In general the geometric shape or contour of the multilevel semiotic means will be chosen within the context of the respective interactive content. All cultural national regional language communities and the like have such signs often with distinctive meanings for the same semiotic sign. The frontiers between the definitions of particular semiotic signs are sometimes blurred. Some signs can carry radically different meanings in different cultures.

Thus such multilevel semiotic means according to the invention can be adapted meaning localized with regards to different cultural national regional language communities and the like. They can be used to convey the same interactive message of or within a content by using the correct semiotic sign or by creating an adapted one which corresponds to the different cultural national regional language communities and the like.

The multilevel aspect of the semiotic sign relates which possibilities to depict differences in enhancements or increase of meanings between levels of the multilevel semiotic means as expressed to the user by systems of signification like 

The innovative semiotic aspect of the multilevel semiotic means according to the invention is hence described partially in but not limited to the features that 

In a preferred embodiment of the multilevel semiotic means a geometric shape or contour can be shown in a very discreet manner so as to simply attract momentary attention to an interactivity point without disturbing the main content. In a further embodiment it may be located in an ergonomic fashion at the upper right hand side of the display but it can be positioned elsewhere on a screen and it can be as large as needed to allow reliable addressing depending on the display and the content.

In other preferred embodiments and according to the respective legal environment the multilevel semiotic means can also relate to real objects items brands logos moods context personal representations and can be shown as shapes contours and the like representations including 3D semiotic signs as further shown in . In other preferred embodiments it can be a combination of more than one semiotic sign of different characteristics like size shape meaning type and the like. Such combinations of more than one semiotic sign can thus carry composite meanings. In other preferred embodiments like games or plays the multilevel semiotic means can be a non playing character item or object relating to the content the user or the users like a user alias and feature a particular change in shape color sound or other signs that indicate the levels of meaning relating to that particular multilevel semiotic means. In other preferred embodiments if the user chooses to ignore hence not to address the particular interactive opportunity offered by the region immediately outside but close to the multilevel semiotic means the multilevel semiotic means attributes a particular meaning to that choice. In other preferred embodiments several multilevel semiotic means are used to convey a search a choice an attitude a feeling opinion and the like of the user or attributed to a character scene object theme and the like parts of the interactive content.

In a particular preferred embodiment the multilevel semiotic means are invisible to the user but linked to other visible semiotic signs within the content and to the content metadata. In other preferred embodiments a particular multilevel semiotic means according to the invention can hide at least another multilevel semiotic means at any of the levels of the particular multilevel semiotic means. In other preferred embodiments the degree of importance of meanings can go from the outside inwards or the inside outwards according to the definition levels of the multilevel semiotic means and depending on conditions favorable to the content and the logic of use. In other preferred embodiments the degree of importance of meanings can go at random from the outside inwards and the inside outwards according to the definition levels of the multilevel semiotic means and depending on conditions favorable to the content and the logic of use. In other preferred embodiments the multilevel semiotic means itself and the levels or regions of interactivity levels including the inside levels and the immediate outside level can carry more than one meaning per semiotic level and are tied to more than one fuzzy logic descriptor set per semiotic level. In other preferred embodiments the multilevel semiotic sign itself and the levels or regions of interactivity levels including the inside levels and the immediate outside level can change as a function of the evolution of the content of the appreciation of occurrences or changes in the users attitudes preferences and interactivity patterns.

A main aspect of the present invention hence resides in the fact that more than one set of different meanings can be attached to a single set of levels of a multilevel semiotic means which in turn can be tied to more than one fuzzy logic descriptor set. These sets of meanings relate at least to the semiotic sign itself to the inside levels and to the immediate outside level of the semiotic sign as well as to meanings related to the user and to the content and without limiting the scope of the invention to these types of meaning related by the multilevel semiotic means.

Hence as shown in but not limited by to the innovative multilevel semiotic interactive means according to the invention makes it extremely flexible simple and attractive to structure a large variety of interactive content from linear contents. These means also allow one to adapt interactive content originated from one region or culture to viewers from a different region or culture and relate to them in the way of their own signs. They also allow securing the use of the content by providing innovative means to connect particular multilevel semiotic means to authenticity related metadata.

In continuation of the first part the fuzzy logic aspect will now be described in more detail. The use of fuzzy logic in combination with the multilevel semiotic signs allows one to define fuzzy semiotic membership functions. These membership functions can relate to user profiles belonging to a certain category of viewers reacting or not to an advert they can relate to an appreciation of choices made by a player in a game and to qualitative decisions made by a player in a betting voting or other selecting application. Thus a further main aspect of the present invention is the emergence of innovative Semiotic Fuzzy Descriptors attached to the multilevel semiotic signs and their meanings expressed as membership functions.

Fuzzy Membership functions arise normally out of the so called fuzzification transformation process. In this process ranges of numerical values expressing a condition or phenomenon like 45 to 60 year old are defined with regards to a linguistic expression like middle aged as shown in . In fuzzy logic terminology this linguistic expression is called a membership function . As a classic example a membership function middle aged can then be used to create rules defining which person is more or less middle aged.

As shown in the rule A person is middle aged can be expressed in a membership function including a degree of belonging called a degree of confidence with which a particular person belongs to the membership function. For example depending on the degree of belonging i.e. in this case depending on his age a person can be categorized in one of the shown categories somewhat middle aged middle aged or somewhat older . Conversely as shown in the same type of membership function can be applied to the degree of belonging to somewhat interested interested very interested . It is hence easy to correlate the sense and procedure of the age related membership function and fuzzification to the level of interest membership function as related in Level user related meaning.

For the purpose of the present invention and related to the innovative use in semiotics the fuzzy logic membership functions will be called fuzzy logic semiotic descriptor sets in the following text and figures. The fuzzy logic aspect of the multilevel semiotic means according to the invention is described but not limited by the features that 

As mentioned logic layer also comprises a content inference module for storing user preferences in a so called user preference engine by using for example if then rules to establish a certain preference as a function of a certain interaction based on experience or evidence. As such one content instead of another may be proposed to a user as a function of her his preferences. Logic layer is further linked to a content layer in which all content resources are stored and access links thereto. Thus content layer comprises a content resource and access module to this effect. Content layer further comprises information about content rendering related to the content that is be rendered such as the position on the presentation layer and the instant of rendering the content. As can be understood by the person skilled in the art the invention cannot be limited to the description but is much broader in scope in its application to the field of interactive multimedia. The multilevel semiotic interactive user interface including a fuzzy descriptor set as an interactive interface to the digital content metadata at a suitable layer for example to the logic layer having been disclosed thus far the interaction between the user and the interactive multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface will now be described.

Further to the first part and the second part of the detailed description of the present invention the description of interaction between the user and the novel interactive multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface now discloses the resulting innovation in the domain of interactivity. The present inventors considered that an interactive system has at least 7 participants 

The inventors sought to address the needs of these various participants through the interactive multimedia system according to the invention by the innovative features of the multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface means as well as by the interactive addressing qualification and evaluation means with system learning capability. Interactivity interfaces such as shown in relating to the conventional art are very often limited to VCR type control means picture in picture PIP presentations and to STB Set Top box like single choice click to select icons without on line means to interpret the choice of the user and without constituting a real interactive user system loop. The STB systems do not always have memory capacity for downloading digital content often the TV itself is analog.

Hence the main content will continue in the background if the user decides to follow the invitation to Press red button now indicated by a blinking single level icon. The user communicates with the STB not with the blinking icon. The interactive intermezzos which are provided often contain sponsoring content. This system represents a common TV based level of enhanced on line subscribing and purchasing means known from the Internet world and as such and as suggested by are considered part of the prior art in the sense of the invention. They are mostly conceived to identify the qualified customer through the recording of his her identity and purchasing activity. Information about any other activity or qualitative interpretation of such activity is not available and hence is not used.

The shortest stories with the biggest point to point communication risk are probably advertising clips as attached to inserted into or telescoped into main content for the large variety of existing and coming fixed wired wireless nomad portable and on board devices such as defined in the present invention. In state of the art analog TV and STB without memory such as shown in an interactive opportunity is signaled to the user by a blinking single level icon during a normal advert located in a standard fashion within a main content. The interactive opportunity is often related directly to an advertising purpose. It is signaled by a textual or sounded invitation to press a red button on the control means which according to and leads the user to look for more and possibly register for a deepened relationship with the advertiser. The main content is not stopped beyond the duration of that normal advert occurrence but continues if the user has decided to look for more and follow the instructions of the interactive opportunity. In PIP configurations the user will be able to watch both the continuing main content and the content offered by the interactive opportunity.

Thus in state of the art analog TV same as in digital TV with VoD and certainly with the advent of PVR two antagonistic tendencies seem to develop the first tendency being for adverts to try to telescope into meaning to extend beyond the classic second time frame and to provide a message style looking sort of like a content within a content . The second tendency especially in the case of PVR and other similar downloads to fixed or portable communication devices is for users to try and not view adverts at all. The inventors conceived a novel approach to this problem that not only solves this go no go situation but also furthermore benefits both the user and the content providers in an innovative way and which can work in both the analog and the digital world.

The present invention can function work with the state of the art described in . In a corresponding first preferred embodiment the invitation to press a red button and as previously shown in and can be represented by the appearance on the viewing screen and also on the screen of the control device of a multilevel indexical semiotic sign like concentric red circles inserted into the linear content into a standard second advert or another interactive application. In the case of the red button pressing pointing is not possible so the choice of the level within the multilevel semiotic sign has to be made by several clicks for example one click for the outside region two for the first inside region and so on or by the use of the digit keys on the remote. Hence by using the red button on the control means for the first time the user will be informed in a general manner about the proposed interactive content such as an advert according to . The user then has the choice to do nothing and continue to watch the normal 30 second advert content which of course will get him her back to the main content. By using the red button one or more times after receiving the general information the user will address the various levels of the multilevel semiotic means by subsequent clicks or selections and receive the corresponding level of interactive content. By addressing any of these levels a second time while being in it or by using a specific available command the user may leave that particular level of interactive content and return to the main content.

The applicable semiotic descriptor means as described in detail above and related to the activity and application described above by might be located and stored in the STB for retrieval as desired by the provider and used to deduct user preferences off line as desirable and allowed by the applicable legal environment. In the sense of the invention the STB hard and software environments serve a similar albeit less extensive function as can be provided by the metadata system of a full digital content or MPEG 21 environment. The person skilled in the art will realize that the invention will adapt to a variety of states of the art from intermediary as shown by to the extensive multilevel interactivity applications as will be disclosed further on.

Hence control devices without sophisticated free space mouse like pointing scrolling and zooming capabilities as described previously may also be used for the innovative multilevel semiotic user interface. In one preferred embodiment as previously indicated in the multilevel semiotic user interface and the display on the control device replicates the semiotic sign shown on the screen and the user can chose to address or not the various regions of interactivity with a few thumb strokes as used for SMS Short Message Service text messages MMS Multimedia Message Service or other fixed and mobile communication messages broadcasts and downloads.

In another preferred embodiment and as indicated by the multilevel semiotic sign includes for example at its most important level an SMS MMS or other text and AV message forms to a website a blog a podcast or other communication site addressable by fixed and portable AV and text communication means address which lets the user by clicking on the yes or OK button for example to send immediately such a message. The content of the different message forms may then be used later as a pondering factor in the evaluation of the viewers use of the interactive opportunities as shown for the content evaluation module in . The same can be true of course for phoning or e mailing in messages that correlate to the application.

To further explain the user interaction with the inventive multilevel semiotic means represents the example of a frame relating to the broadcasted content of a Formula 1 racing event with a simulated insert of a multilevel visual semiotic user interface indicating an interactivity potential in this case an advert. As shown a racing event is displayed as the interactive content. At a certain moment in time a multilevel semiotic means is displayed in a frame of the main content to provide an interaction opportunity to a viewer.

For the purpose of the invention the displayed main content frame could also be taken from a movie tutorial game documentary or real time transmission of a F1 racing event or episode. For the same purpose it could also be taken from a movie tutorial game documentary or real time transmission about any other subject different from F1 racing. Addressing can be made by clicking pointing or other commands like keyboard text voice or visual or other interfaces or commands as made possible by addressing technology by using suitable user interface addressing means. Point and click commands are the most common addressing means currently known in personal computers PDAs mobile phones PVRs advanced STB and game consoles.

In a few other cases for example some mobile phones and PDA s and control devices for some STB these commands are possible via clicks of the linear cursor displacements up down left right plus OK button to confirm a particular choice. In most if not all cases of PC based and up to date VoD PVR media center equipment game consoles etc pointing to and clicking on the levels of a semiotic sign is a built in feature.

According to the invention addressing the immediate region outside but close to the multilevel semiotic means can carry two meanings within the first set of meanings 

Thus in the multilevel semiotic means indicates an interactivity opportunity or potential inserted into the interactive main content where the different levels of meaning of the multilevel semiotic means and the interactions with the user can be expressed in the fuzzy descriptor set module . The user is represented by the control device used to address the multimedia system.

For the purpose of the invention interactivity potential as in this preferred embodiment could refer to sponsored content such as to an advert to game to an information about or related to a particular subject of the main content or to any sponsored or otherwise prompted or selected contents and combinations thereof. These sponsored or otherwise prompted or selected contents are inserted or telescoped into the main content in a suitable number and sequence place or number of frames as well known in the art in order to let the user know that there are interactivity potentials available as pre determined principally by the providers of the content. The different levels of meaning are retained in meanings related to the multilevel semiotic sign the content the user and Fuzzy pondering Factors within the fuzzy descriptor set module .

The rules structuring the interactivity between the user and the system are programmed in the Content Inference Module . This first part of these rules relates to the multilevel semiotic sign itself and its functions 

As shown in Fuzzy descriptor set module attributes membership functions to the user profile as he or she addresses the various interactive regions of multilevel semiotic sign 

It is obvious that addressing further levels would lead to more differentiated and evolutionary profiles or membership functions like User very interested or Qualified prospect .

Thanks to such user profile updating not only does a user avail of more specific interactive opportunities which might be of a potentially higher interest to the user but the company providing the interactive content could also evaluate the user profile one by one or of several users together to obtain information on the potential interest of users as a whole for the company s product. This would allow a company to more clearly target its potential audience and thus avoid useless bombarding of users viewers with advertisements providing a more cost effective interactive advertising or to increase the half life of the interactive content i.e. the time span during which such an interactive content like for example a game or a tutorial remains interesting for users.

In the case explained above the broadcaster the main content provider and by extension the sponsoring content provider will know for example that user X did not watch the advert placed by a car tire manufacturer sponsoring a car racing event or that user X did not care for the documentary clip about the race track and region that the local municipality wanted to transmit. The system will classify user X as not interested in this particular sponsored content offered within this particular main content. The fuzzy logic system will use the term not interested as a linguistic variable for further processing.

From reading the description of this application which could be mobile web ADSL or broadband based and as shown in it becomes clear how the multilevel semiotic user and metadata interface means and the fuzzy logic descriptor set module in the metadata logic layer can become the basis for a cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system according to the invention. The important new definition of fuzzy semiotic variables is indeed innovative compared to the linguistic variables and allows to use visual semiotics in the qualitative presentation evaluation appreciation and decision making that happens between the viewer and the content.

The innovation also consists of using semiotic signs for example iconic symbolic and indexical signs as semiotic variables to the definition of fuzzy sets which up to now used merely numerical and sometimes linguistic variables. Adding the dimension of differentiation between the signifier e.g. sound image word movement and combinations thereof and the signified e.g. concept or meaning that is supposed to be represented by or contained in the signifier greatly enhances the use of fuzzy logic systems in general and in particular through the input of external factors or indices of phenomena as Fuzzy pondering factors .

It is particularly effective in the realm of the disclosed inventive interactive multimedia system. The innovation leads to the notion of semiotic computing computing with signs versus computing with words as fuzzy logic has been sometimes semantically described. This notion will be explored in the following of the description of embodiments and figures.

Now that the simple but in general very representative application of interactive advertising has been explained other applications will be explained using . The performance of the inventive multilevel semiotic user interface with fuzzy descriptor sets will be shown in the realms of 

The fuzzy descriptor sets as shown in will be established in a similar way. The person skilled in the art will readily recognize that specific membership functions and fuzzy descriptor sets like most interested in beacons or no interest in legends and very interested in major locations are possible and can contribute to establishing user profiles that are useful for the publishers service providers and sponsors. It will also be evident to those familiar with the art that possibilities like identifying and interfacing to SMS and URL downloads MPEG videoconference and the like via the documentary application using the inventive multilevel semiotic user interface can enhance the benefits for the user and the publishers providers and sponsors same as shown previously in for the interactive advertising application.

It will be easy to see that the more interactive oriented documentary application described in which proposes short episodes with equally short but effective interactivity clips can function as a mobile ADSL web broadband download or plug in application. The multilevel semiotic user and metadata interface with the fuzzy logic descriptor set can innovate the interactive rendering of the enormous amount of existing linear content from comics to documentaries to movies and other AV documents. Known contents can be used to link to other main or inserted content thus allowing to avail of existing products.

Multilevel semiotic sign now might appear a bit larger and show 4 regions including the region immediately outside as shown in . In this example the regions correspond to the degree of necessity that the user sees to pack the various objects in this case ranging from not necessary to vital as shown in detail in with regions to . The user can pack the bag by dragging and dropping each object into the particular region of the bag according to his feelings whether the particular object is vital maybe necessary or not necessary and so on depending on the choices provided. In an alternative embodiment each object may itself be a multilevel semiotic sign so that a user can address a level of the object instead of dragging and dropping it. Each such level may represent an attribute or an importance of the object to the user or be in relation to a choice a decision a degree of importance suspense fun courage and the like as explained above.

It will be obvious from what was explained earlier that the fuzzy descriptor sets can be established for the bag packing activity as well as for the user. At the authoring stage membership functions like careless explorer can be defined for example for the user who thinks that a vaccination and a water filter are not necessary and like crazy explorer if the user additionally considers the antidote for snake bites as not necessary .

It will also be evident as shown in that a cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system building on the applicable fuzzy descriptor sets that result from the users choices and the application as well as some fuzzy pondering factors like the time to pack or the sequence of objects packed or the selected level of the multilevel object and on user preference rules established by the content inference module can address a content resource and access module to generate different episodes and outcomes for different players. In one type of episode all the crazy explorers might die on this virtual Orinoco trip in another all the careless explorers might just become sick. It will also be obvious for the person skilled in the art that the number of choices and resulting variations is very high and that the individual episode can be lived differently by different people and be lived differently a number of times by the same user.

In a preferred embodiment as shown the level of difficulty or suspense results from the user s choices and some fairly straightforward fuzzy pondering factors. In such a preferred embodiment and as shown in a second specific multilevel semiotic sign is introduced in this case concentric circles to let the user chose a desired level of adventure which gives the possibility to complement the user related fuzzy descriptors as well as to modulate the generation of suspense the direction and the outcome of the interactive episode. It is evident that the meaning of this second specific multilevel semiotic sign can relate to surprise danger comfort state of mind physical conditions mental preparedness level of security and the like attributes and conditions and that the meaning can relate to the content as well as to the user or external factors.

In other preferred embodiments the meaning of this second meaning specific multilevel semiotic sign corresponds to the user and the role he or she wishes to play in a particular episode like from observer to active player in a sports game for example. In other preferred embodiments an additional specific meaning attached to multilevel semiotic sign referenced not shown is used to increase the choices for the player to define approaches and attitudes. In other preferred embodiments the meanings of this meaning specific multilevel semiotic signs and are used to express attitude character or role aspects of the user and of at least a particular character in the game or tutorial who might be friend or foe or otherwise related to the user within the story.

In other preferred embodiments the meanings of this meaning specific multilevel semiotic signs and are used to express as well attitude character or role aspects of the user and at least a second player in the game or a negotiating tutorial who might be friend or foe or otherwise psychologically related to the user within the story. In other preferred embodiments the random function generator see located in the cognitive adaptive multimedia expert system can modify the behavior of the meaning specific multilevel semiotic sign related to the friend or foe character. The behavior could be influenced as compliant or in opposition with the original intended meaning of this meaning specific multilevel semiotic sign to create additional attraction and tension in the game.

In other preferred embodiments objects like objects in or any other number of them and the corresponding multilevel semiotic signs correspond to search or selection criteria or objects. The main multilevel semiotic sign like in and corresponds to the search or selection objective and the meaning specific multilevel semiotic sign or signs and correspond to degrees of certainty or other attitudinal factors relating to the user himself or with regards to the content the role to be played the object or notion to be searched and the like. In other preferred embodiments objects like objects in or any other number of them and the corresponding multilevel semiotic signs correspond to betting criteria persons animals teams objects outcomes and the like on which qualitative bets are made. Horse racing with individual signs for the horses the jockeys the race track and certain conditions like health past performance and the like can be expressed by suitable multilevel semiotic signs.

It is evident to the person skilled in the art that these embodiments can relate to but are not limited to interactive searching and qualitative decision making content such as related to qualitative look up deciding betting not only number based voting selecting playing negotiating and the like and can be represented but are not limited by sports betting event shows grading qualitative ratings shopping dating tutorials gaming negotiating and documentary based learning voting on AV clips adverts news on choices of candidates and the like. It will be equally evident to the person skilled in the art that the applications according to the embodiments can be stand alone as well as interactive episodes and function in mobile ADSL broadband iTV and web based environments and combinations thereof.

In a particular preferred embodiment not shown objects like objects in or any other number of them and their multilevel semiotic signs correspond actually to objects existing in the story and not only to separate semiotic representations of them. At a particular moment in the story like planning the virtual trip to the Orinoco the syringe for vaccination the flask the antidote and the other objects as well as the travel bag would actually be there in the particular scene. The bag would show a particular multilevel appearance the objects could be placed in the regions of the bag same as explained above using the control device who functions as a magical hand or wand for the user. The fuzzy descriptor sets not necessary vital and the like relating to the importance of the objects and the ones like crazy explorer relating to the user will be developed exactly as described before for .

In another particular preferred embodiment not shown where the multilevel semiotic sign user interface has been downloaded to the control device as explained before for the objects like objects in or any other number of them correspond to personal multimedia content items. The objects can be represented by the multimedia content supplier logos like HBO CNN Sony EA and the like. The main multilevel semiotic sign like in and may correspond to the logo of the overall content supplier subscribed to. The levels of the main multilevel semiotic sign correspond to the degree of preference or other qualitative criteria of organizing the content. The objects are placed in the corresponding region. Addressing a region leads to displaying the content items placed there according to the particular degree of preference or other qualitative criteria attributed to them by the user.

The meaning specific multilevel semiotic sign or signs as shown in may correspond to particular users where each user in a household for example has a proprietary region in the meaning specific multilevel semiotic sign or signs. By addressing the region the preferential listing of that particular person may be displayed. A next meaning specific multilevel semiotic sign or signs would correspond to preferred view timing slots or attitudinal factors relating to each of the users. The resulting fuzzy descriptor sets would mirror the situation correspondingly for example Dad CNN Financial 07.00 pm workdays.

In another preferred embodiment as indicated by the personal multimedia content organization can be stored in the control device or the STB PC Multimedia system and the like and transmitted to the overall content provider to facilitate communication with the user and personalized service. In another preferred embodiment as indicated by the personal multimedia content organization can be stored in the control device or the STB PC Multimedia system and the like and be available solely for the user to organize all his multimedia items using the multilevel semiotic user interface means. Now that the interaction between the user and the novel interactive multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface has been described in various embodiments it will be clear to the person skilled in the art that the invention is not limited to the description but applies to a large number of further multimedia embodiments applications and environments.

The system is adaptive in nature since it reacts with different outcomes to different user interaction pondering factors and random input. The system can be structured as a learning system progressing with the user and combining his results with his declared or perceived attitudinal approaches. Knowledge acquisition can happen for example through interaction and frequency analysis weight assignment and generation of adapted fuzzy sets after taking care of semantic unification of terms used. Knowledge can also evolve genetically for example from a particular performance of the user to higher levels.

Since fuzzy descriptor sets are used to interface directly with the multilevel semiotic user interface the system can be constructed as an evidential reasoning system using evidential support logic evolutionary algorithms and fuzzy sets as form of representation. Fuzzy membership functions and multilevel semiotic signs offer the additional advantage of readability for the novice as well as ease of definition of terms in the authoring stage.

Evidential logic in case based conceptual reasoning is an alternative to the more complex deductive logic in AI Artificial Intelligence applications without limiting the invention to the sole tool of evidential reasoning. Inferences can be combined from several rules as will be necessary with multi player or active game character to user interaction.

The data evaluation module processes data and files related to user content interactivity content resource preferences or results of qualitative voting betting selecting and the like. These data and files can be further treated off line in the Content Evaluation Module . The module can also accept suitably transcribed summary results of SMS or equivalent user communications relating to content appreciation or recommendation as indicated in .

Having described several preferred embodiments of the invention it goes without saying that broadly one aspect of the invention pertains to a multilevel semiotic and fuzzy logic user and metadata interface means that includes a an interactive user interface means comprising at least one multilevel semiotic means addressable by a user and a fuzzy logic descriptor set module for storing multiple fuzzy logic descriptor sets b wherein each fuzzy logic descriptor set is related to a respective level of each of the multilevel semiotic means and describe at least one level of significance of interactivity corresponding to the respective level of each of the multilevel semiotic means wherein the level of significance is directly related to the importance of a level addressed and thus selected by the user of the multilevel semiotic means wherein each fuzzy logic descriptor set defines at least one fuzzy semiotic membership function definable by and based on the addressing of a level of each of the multilevel semiotic means and at least one significance attributed to the level c a metadata layer for linking the multilevel semiotic means to interactivity points present in the content of the multimedia representation and defined by the metadata layer such that each level of each of the multilevel semiotic means identifies an interactivity point in the content and allows by selection of the interactivity point to perform a selectively varying content manipulation and to receive a resulting interactive presentation of content according to the selection and d a user control device for addressing the multilevel semiotic means. Having described several preferred embodiments of this invention it will now be apparent to one of skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating its concept may be used. It is felt therefore that this invention should not be limited to the disclosed embodiments but rather should be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

