---

title: Power saving in multi-processor device
abstract: A mobile computing device comprises a first microprocessor having a sleep mode and a wake mode and a second microprocessor configured for wireless communication. A communication port is configured to communicate data from the second processor to the first processor, wherein the second processor is configured to provide a wake signal to the first microprocessor and the first microprocessor is configured to open the communication port in response to the wake signal and to receive data from the second microprocessor through the communication port.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07898994&OS=07898994&RS=07898994
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 07898994
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061205
---
This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 155 387 filed Jun. 16 2005 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 083 044 filed Feb. 25 2002 and issued Sep. 13 2005 as U.S. Pat. No. 6 943 667. This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 10 759 597 filed Jan. 15 2004 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 455 178 filed Mar. 16 2003.

Mobile computing devices are typically powered by batteries. Consumers who purchase mobile computing devices look for a device that can operate a long period of time without needing to recharge the battery. Therefore there is a need to improve the power consumption of mobile computing devices.

Some mobile computing devices such as smart phones use two microprocessors one for radio communication and one for running a variety of applications. Both microprocessors consume power even though one microprocessor may be idle while the other microprocessor is running.

Accordingly there is a need for improved systems and methods for reducing power consumption in a multi processor mobile computing device. Further there is a need for reducing power consumption in the communication of data between a plurality of processors in a multi processor mobile computing device. Further still there is a need for reducing power consumption in a mobile computing device operating over a wireless communication link having a server time out feature.

The teachings herein extend to those embodiments which are within the scope of the appended claims regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the above mentioned needs.

Application Ser. No. 11 155 387 filed Jun. 16 2005 application Ser. No. 10 083 044 filed Feb. 25 2002 and issued Sep. 13 2005 as U.S. Pat. No. 6 943 667 application Ser. No. 10 759 597 filed Jan. 15 2004 U.S. Provisional application No. 60 455 178 filed Mar. 16 2003 and application Ser. No. 11 469 374 filed Aug. 31 2006 are all incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Referring first to a mobile computing device is shown. Device is a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having personal digital assistant functionality. The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or other electronic devices e.g. a desktop personal computer home or car audio system etc. . Personal digital assistant functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording etc. and is configured to synchronize personal information from one or more applications with a computer e.g. desktop laptop server etc. . Device is further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download SecureDigital card etc.

Earpiece speaker may be a speaker configured to provide audio output with a volume suitable for a user placing earpiece speaker against or near the ear. Loudspeaker is an electro acoustic transducer that converts electrical signals into sounds loud enough to be heard at a distance. Loudspeaker can be a used for a speakerphone functionality. Device comprises a housing having a front side and a back side . In alternative embodiments display user input device earpiece speaker and loudspeaker may each be positioned anywhere on front side back side or the edges therebetween.

Mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems etc.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth.

As shown in the embodiment of mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the dual processor architecture of the mobile computing device may comprise additional processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments. In an exemplary embodiment host processor is an OMAP2 such as an OMAP2431 processor manufactured by Texas Instruments Inc.

The host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be arranged to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The mobile computing device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . User input device may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons keypad alphanumeric keypad and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth.

The transceiver module may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

The mobile computing device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between the mobile computing device and one or more external computer systems.

Referring now to an exemplary system and method for limiting power consumption will be described. In some embodiments herein the process of limiting power consumption may be referred to as a handshaking feature in which at least one of host processor and radio processor is configured to control the other from a wake to sleep or sleep to wake state. Handshaking may refer to the ability of two or more processors to sleep independent of each other and may be provided in any of a number of embodiments some of which will be described herein. It is advantageous to allow each processor to move to a sleep state when it has no tasks even though the other processor is still processing tasks. Each processor is provided with the ability to wake the other when communication between the two is needed e.g. via UART USB or shared memory .

Host processor can be placed in a sleep mode or a wake mode. In a sleep mode host processor is capable of performing certain activities such as keeping memory refreshed or periodically waking up however during the sleep mode host processor does not perform to its full capability. Maintaining a microprocessor in a sleep mode is generally desired for energy conservation.

Radio circuit comprises antenna radio processor and a communication port e.g. serial port universal serial bus universal asynchronous receiver transmitter etc. . In one embodiment radio circuit may monitor wireless traffic received over antenna while host microprocessor is in the sleep mode. Radio circuit continuously scans a set of defined frequencies e.g. page scan in Bluetooth standard for an in bound signal.

A remote device e.g. a transmitting electronic device not shown transmits a signal to mobile computing device . The transmitted signal may be an out of band signal requesting a connection. Radio circuit scanning for in bound signals detects signal transmitted by the transmitting electronic device.

The signal transmitted by the transmitting electronic device requests a connection and may not contain user data. Antenna coupled to radio processor receives signal e.g. incoming connection request and transmits an interaction to radio processor where radio processor having a certain processing capability determines if the signal is a connection attempt. Radio processor coupled to communication port determines a if communication port is closed and b if signal is transmitted by a trusted device.

In case communication port is closed and signal is from a trusted device radio processor toggles an outside line which is coupled to an interrupt mechanism not shown causing the generation of an interrupt signal. Generation of the interrupt signal may be done in accordance with a extension of the communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth specification which allows radio circuit to select a line coupled to the interrupt mechanism and toggle the line if communication port is closed. Accordingly when communication port is closed the outside line is toggled and the interrupt mechanism generates an interrupt signal. The interrupt signal is then transmitted to host processor via interrupt line causing host processor to wake up to its full operational capability. An interrupt vector including different communication protocols e.g. Bluetooth IR etc. resides in the operating system not shown of host processor . Host processor responding to the interrupt signal sends a command to its operating system to invoke an appropriate communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth IR etc. . Accordingly a communication protocol is invoked and causes communication port to open and receive data signal .

If the port was already open when the message was received the interrupt signal is still generated to wake the host processor . Once wakened it receives the message from the open port.

The interrupt signal wakes the host processor which opens the communication port and data information is received. Advantageously the communication port can be shut down when not in use thereby saving power.

Referring now to another exemplary system and method for limiting power consumption will be described. is a schematic diagram illustrating communication lines between a plurality of processors according to an exemplary embodiment. As can be seen a plurality of digital serial ports and control signals of radio processor are coupled to host processor . Analog audio signals are coupled to audio CODEC for routing to microphones speakers or host processor . In one exemplary embodiment UART may be used for multiplexed control and data. UART may be used for debug information during development. In an alternative embodiment UART may be used for command and diagnostics information and UART may be used for data calls.

In the system of a plurality of signals are used to control power management functions between host processor and radio processor .

Handshaking functions can be provided in any of a variety of methods. Exemplary methods are set forth below 

In these exemplary methods radio processor may be configured to de assert the APP wakeup interrupt when radio processor has completed transmission of the data. Also host processor in response to the wake signal may be configured to send a signal to radio processor indicating host processor is ready to receive data wherein radio processor is configured to send data in response to receiving the signal. Also host processor may be configured to provide a second wake signal to radio processor radio processor being configured to send a second signal to host processor indicating it is ready to receive second data. Host processor may be configured in response to the second signal to send second data to radio processor through a communication port.

Referring now to radio processor may have a plurality of modes or states from the host processor perspective. In a Power Off state power supply from host processor to radio processor is turned off. After power is supplied host processor can provide control signals to radio processor to put radio processor into a Bootloader Mode state or an Operating System OS Mode state . In Bootloader Mode state radio processor is ready for software download. In OS Mode state radio processor will first go to a Low Power Mode LPM state . In LPM state radio frequency functionality is turned off. In order to make voice and data calls radio processor has to be moved into RF On Mode state . To get radio processor into RF On Mode state host processor sends a host controller interface HCI commands to radio processor . Host processor can further be configured to take the radio processor back to LPM state .

Referring now to a signaling diagram illustrating a Power On to Bootloader Mode function will be described. The labels in the FIGS refer the following sequence of events 

Handshaking functions may prepare host processor and radio processor for events or data exchange by the processors waking each other up from any low power mode they might be in. Data flow may be hardware flow controlled. For example if host processor has data to send to radio processor host processor asserts the APP WAKE MODEM line and an APP RTS line. Radio processor is configured to awaken from the sleep state in response to the APP WAKE MODEM line assert an APP CTS line to cause host processor to begin transmitting data to radio processor . Host processor is configured to handle failures of these signals. Radio processor can use a similar process when it has data to send to host processor . APP RTS APP CTS may be Request to Send Clear To Send signals which may assist in preventing data loss.

In this exemplary embodiment host processor and radio processor only enter sleep mode when both APP WAKE MODEM line and MODEM WAKE APP line are held low for a predetermined period of time and there is no data flow between the two processors. Before host processor goes to sleep it first de asserts the APP RTS line. Similarly radio processor de asserts the APP CTS line before it goes to sleep.

Referring now to a signaling diagram illustrating a host processor initiates communication mode will be described. This process may be used when host processor wishes to initiate communication with radio processor .

Referring now to a state diagram illustrating a host processor wakes radio processor data flow from the host processor side will be described. Host processor may have an APP Inactive State mode in which APP WAKE MODEM is de asserted or is kept low. Host processor may have an APP Active State mode in which APP WAKE MODEM is asserted and data may be sent received. In this exemplary embodiment host processor can transfer from APP Active State mode to APP Inactive State mode at any time. Host processor may stay awake even after it de asserts the APP WAKE MODEM for any period of time known or unknown to radio processor .

Referring now to a state diagram illustrating a host processor wakes radio processor data flow from the radio processor side will be described. shows a handshaking task state transition diagram for the case when host processor wished to initiate communication with radio processor . Radio processor may have a Modem Inactive State mode in which APP WAKE MODEM is de asserted or is kept low a Modem Active State mode in which APP WAKE MODEM is asserted and radio processor wakes up and may send receive data and a Modem Grace Period State mode in which APP WAKE MODE is de asserted and a 750 ms or other period of time grace period timer starts. After expiration of the 750 ms grace period timer radio processor moves to the Modem Inactive State mode .

Referring now to a signaling diagram illustrating a radio processor initiates communication mode will be described.

In this exemplary embodiment radio processor is configured to pulse a wakeup signal during at least a portion of a time during which the host processor is receiving data from the radio processor . Periodic pulsing or continuously holding the wakeup signal high or low if active low may decrease the likelihood that host processor will miss the wakeup signal which may result in fewer missed phone calls or data updates e.g. e mail . For example host processor may be handling another interrupt when the first wakeup signal is received which may cause host processor to miss the wakeup signal. Alternatively or in addition the APP WAKE MODEM wakeup signal from host processor to radio processor may be pulsed similarly.

Referring now to a state diagram illustrating a radio processor wakes host processor data flow from the radio processor side will be described. Radio processor may have a Modem Inactive State mode in which the MODEM WAKE APP line is de asserted or is kept low a Modem Active State mode in which radio processor begins pulsing MODEM WAKE APP line and data is sent received and a Modem Grace Period State mode in which radio processor stops pulsing MODEM WAKE APP line and a one second or other time period grace timer starts. After the timer expires radio processor enters mode .

Referring now to a state diagram illustrating a radio processor wakes host processor data flow from the host processor side will be described. Host processor may have an APP Inactive State mode in which MODEM WAKE APP is low an APP Active State mode in which host processor detects MODEM WAKE APP pulses and an APP Grace Period State mode in which MODEM WAKE APP pulses are stopped and a one second or other time period grace timer starts. After the timer expires radio processor enters mode .

Referring now to a signaling diagram illustrating a universal serial bus controller wakeup feature will be described. Host processor and radio processor each contain a universal serial bus controller which may be on chip or a separate integrated circuit associated with the respective processor. The host USB controller is coupled to host processor and is configured to provide USB communication over a universal serial bus USB with radio processor . The radio USB controller is coupled to radio processor and is configured to proved USB communication over the USB with host processor .

Advantageously at least one of the USB controllers on host processor and radio processor has off suspend and on states. Suspend state may be a state in which USB controller operates at lower power than the on state yet can be moved to the on state more quickly than from the off state. In suspend state the USB controller does not drive the USB but is not in an off state. Suspend state may be as defined by a Universal Serial Bus specification. A USB controller may move to a suspend state after a predetermined period of inactivity. Host processor may be moved to a wake state before host processor moves host USB controller among on suspend and suspend states. After moving host USB controller to a new state host processor may return to a sleep state and host USB controller will remain in its new state.

According to one exemplary embodiment after host USB controller processes a message on the universal serial bus the universal serial bus controller is configured to enter the off state while host processor is in a sleep state. By moving host USB controller to an off state instead of a suspend state or leaving in an on state power consumption can be reduced e.g. 600 uA in one exemplary embodiment . Conventional USB usage in for example a personal computer provides that USB controllers are routinely left in suspend state because of a lesser need to conserve power.

Advantageously the universal serial bus controller is further configured to move from the off state to the on state without enumerating in order to save time.

According to another exemplary embodiment a serial communication bus e.g. UART controller coupled to host processor may have an on state and an off state wherein the USB controller on host processor is configured to be put in the off state when the serial communication bus controller is in the on state. For example if a particular type of data received at radio processor may be communicated to host processor via the serial communication bus USB need not be move to the on or wake state. For example a USB may be used for packet data e.g. wireless synchronizing of e mails streaming video internet browsing etc. diagnostic logging from modem and sending debug messages.

According to one example a mobile computing device has been activated with a network and registered with a service provider. When radio processor receives incoming data it knows host processor is in sleep mode and host USB controller is off. Radio processor moves its own radio USB controller to an on wake state. Radio processor provides a signal over a GPIO e.g. MODEM WAKE APP to wake up host processor . Radio processor then sends an HCI message to tell host processor to power host USB controller to an on wake state before sending any data. Host processor wakes up and provides a USB clock signal to radio USB controller. The data is then communicated from radio processor to host processor .

Alternatively UART hardware flow control lines may be used for the host processor wake up signal and a dedicated GPIO may be used to wake up the host USB controller. In this embodiment both host and radio processor may reconfigure a pin to general GPIO when host processor is sleeping. Further an HCI message could be send from the host to the radio processor just before the host processor enters sleep mode. Radio process may not acknowledge this message. As a further alternatively the bootloader line may be multiplexed to act as a wakeup line.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates a universal serial bus controller wakeup mode according to an exemplary embodiment. In this flow diagram a mobile originated data call process is illustrated. Host and radio processors can be configured to send the following HCI messages to the other 

Host processor shall setup the host USB controller and send the DATA UP to wake up the radio USB controller. Host processor first wakes up the radio processor by APP WAKE MODEM pin to bring up the UART communication for HCI. Host processor provides the USB clock signal after the radio USB controller is powered up before any USB control commands or data are sent over the USB. In this embodiment USB re enumeration is not required.

Referring now to a mobile terminated data call function is disclosed. When there is incoming data from the network while a call is inactive the network will page the device to setup a traffic channel for receiving the data. Radio processor will forward this page message to the host and the host may intercept this page message and turn on the host USB controller. Host processor is configured to handle this event even it is in the process of entering sleep state.

Referring to a host processor entering sleep mode function is disclosed. Host processor may check the MODEM WAKE APP signal before entering sleep state. If host processor decides to enter sleep mode it is configured to send the HCI message to radio processor . If there is any more incoming data radio processor is configured to wake up the APP with an APP wakeup procedure described above including sending the DATA UP message to the host for moving the USB controller to an on wake state.

According to another embodiment mobile computing device is configured to communicating with a network the network of a type configured to release a channel of communication with a device after expiration of a timer e.g. 10 to 20 seconds or other time period . CDMA is an example of such a network. Radio processor is configured to provide wireless communication over the network and to enter a sleep mode before expiration of the timer. Radio processor can be configured to enter the sleep mode in response to a sleep signal e.g. message interrupt etc. from host microprocessor or it may put itself into a sleep mode based on one or more criteria e.g. absence of data being received over the wireless network . Radio processor may be configured to enter the sleep mode in response to a signal indicating the host processor is entering a sleep state.

One of the concepts in CDMA IS 2000 is data dormancy. Any active data call in IS 2000 requires the mobile device to setup a traffic channel between the base station controller and the mobile device. Typical dormancy is network timer driven the network operator configured to request dormancy of the mobile device based on a timer for inactivity of data.

In this embodiment mobile computing device is configured to enter without waiting for the expiration of the timer. Dormancy may relate to moving radio processor to a sleep state. Dormancy may relate to releasing an active data call between device and the network while optionally maintaining a paging channel such as SMS or packet data. Mobile computing device may requests the network to release radio resources on the traffic channel when device does not expect any data activity to happen. Device or some portion thereof e.g. radio processor may then enter sleep mode once the traffic channel is released.

In one exemplary embodiment the host processor is responsible for initiating the fast dormancy based on the data connectivity between processors and . Host processor is configured to send an HCI message to radio processor before entering sleep mode. Radio processor does not acknowledge this HCI message because host processor may have entered sleep state already and host processor is preferably not awakened unnecessarily. If there is any incoming data from the network that has to be send to host processor radio processor will wake up host processor with exemplary wakeup procedures shown above.

In one embodiment radio processor may respond to the DATA DOWN message as a trigger for requesting fast dormancy and radio processor may generate the DATA UP message based on an EVDO paging message before the incoming data arrives from the traffic channel.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated on the Figs. and described above are presently exemplary it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

