---

title: Capillary electrophoresis systems and methods
abstract: An embodiment of the invention is directed to a capillary electrophoresis apparatus comprising a plurality of separation micro-channels. A sample loading channel communicates with each of the plurality of separation channels. A driver circuit comprising a plurality of electrodes is configured to induce an electric field across each of the plurality of separation channels sufficient to cause analytes in the samples to migrate along each of the channels. The system further comprises a plurality of detectors configured to detect the analytes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07988839&OS=07988839&RS=07988839
owner: University of Louisville Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 07988839
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060920
---
The present application claims priority on U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 718 863 filed Sep. 20 2005.

This invention was made with government assistance provided by the National Science Foundation EPSCOR under Contract No. 6016955 and provided by the Department of Energy EPSCOR under Contract No. 46411101095. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Advancements in the fields of analytical chemistry and biomedical technology have stressed the need for more efficient means of analyses with faster analysis times smaller sample and reagent consumption higher efficiency greater apparatus portability and easier use. Capillary Electrophoresis CE is a commonly used separation technique which makes use of differences in the charge ratio of components in a mixture. CE generally includes a capillary placed between two electrodes linked by a voltage source. The capillary is filled with an electrolyte such as an aqueous buffer solution. A sample of a material to be tested is also introduced into the capillary.

Testing is initiated by applying an electric field between the electrodes. All ions positive or negative are pulled through the capillary in the same direction by electroosmotic flow. The field also causes the components of the material being tested referred to as analytes to separate as they migrate toward the cathode due to their electrophoretic mobility. The rate of migration differs depending on the analytes particular electrokinetic mobility. These analytes are detected near the outlet end of the capillary. Analytes can generally be identified through knowledge of the electric field applied the geometry of the capillary the distance of migration and the time required to migrate that distance. For example in a mixture of dopamine and catechol dopamine having the higher electrokinetic mobility would reach the cathode faster than catechol which has a lower electrokinetic mobility. Separation by capillary electrophoresis can be detected by several detection methodologies including by way of example but not limited to ultraviolet UV or UV Vis absorbance fluorescence detection electrochemical detection or mass spectrometery.

One limitation of some capillary electrophoresis systems and methods is that samples which contain analytes with equal or near equal mobilities cannot be readily separated. For two analytes having substantially equal mobilities for example migration in a CE capillary or microchannel will be at essentially the same velocity and therefore may be difficult to conclusively detect. Detection errors may result such as inaccurately detecting the concentration of analytes or analyte misidentification.

In addition like many analysis techniques CE procedures often call for highly reliable test results. Such reliability may require redundant testing of samples. Many current systems and techniques require multiple test runs or multiple samples to accomplish redundant results. Multiple test runs or samples increase total testing time and introduce a risk that the sample may be contaminated or otherwise be inconsistent between test runs. In addition larger volumes of sample are required which may or may not always be available and will increase the cost of the process.

Still an additional problem with some CE systems and methods of the prior art related to achieving test analyte samples or plugs in a detection channel having a good geometry. Some systems of the prior art use a configuration that provides poorly defined sample plugs. Other systems require multiple power supplies to generate multiple electric fields to produce sample plugs which results in complex and extensive circuitry and system size as well as other disadvantages. These and other problems make some CE systems of the prior art ill suited for field and related applications where portability is desired.

One example embodiment of the invention provides a device for performing dual capillary electrophoresis with electrochemical detection ECD on a single platform.

One example embodiment of the invention is directed to a capillary electrophoresis apparatus comprising a plurality of separation channels configured to carry a buffer solution and a sample loading channel communicating with each of the plurality of separation channels. A loading circuit comprising a plurality of electrodes is configured to induce an electric field across the sample loading channel sufficient to deliver a sample to the plurality of separation channels. The system further comprises a plurality of detectors one each of the plurality of detectors proximate to each of the separation channels and configured to detect the analytes. A driver circuit comprising a plurality of electrodes is configured to induce an electric field across each of the plurality of separation channels the electric field useful to cause analytes from the samples to migrate in each of the plurality of separation channels towards one of the detectors. The system further comprises at least a controller configured to record data from each of the plurality of detectors to control the plurality of detectors and to control the driver circuit.

An additional example embodiment of the invention is directed to a method for performing capillary electrophoresis and comprises the steps of introducing one sample into a sample loading micro channel and applying a first electric field across the sample loading micro channel to cause the sample to migrate through the micro channel and into a plurality of separation micro channels. A step is performed of applying a second electric field across the plurality of separation micro channels to cause analytes from the one sample to migrate through the plurality of separation micro channels. The analytes are identified proximate to the end of each of the separation micro channels using a detector positioned proximate to each of the ends.

Another example embodiment of the invention provides a lab on a chip LOC micro analytical device such as a soda lime glass based or polymer based LOC which includes the capability to simultaneously separate and detect multiple chemical biochemical analytes in a dual capillary electrophoresis system. The LOC preferably includes at least two separation channels and therefore will enable the separation and detection of multiple analytes where the analytes require different electrode materials such as for example analytes that have equal mobilities and for a redundancy in instrumentation for analyte detection verification. Another potential advantage of this approach is the possibility for reducing analysis times. One electrochemical detector may be suitably modified for detection of a particular analyte while the other for another analyte thus reducing the dependence on separation for multiple analyte detection.

In this example invention embodiment end channel detection of each of the analytes is accomplished by electrochemical detection which may include three electrodes referred to for convenience as work reference and auxiliary. A constant voltage is applied between the work and reference electrodes which causes a constant base current flow through the two electrodes. When an analyte travels over the work electrode the charge of the analyte causes it to participate in an oxidation reduction reaction with the work electrode. The electrons gained or lost by the work electrode cause an increase or decrease in current which indicates the presence of an analyte flowing through the micro channel and quantifies the same.

An example capillary electrophoresis system of the invention including an electrochemical detector when combined with microfabrication can offer some advantages over absorbance or fluorescence detection methodologies and other separation techniques. These can include simpler electronics portability smaller size microchannels having a width of approximately 50 micrometers minimal reagent and sample consumption on the order of nanoliters as well as ease of use.

Embodiments of the invention contemplate use as a diagnostic tool whereby the device could be used to analyze blood or other body fluids to determine composition and thereby detect cause of illness in a patient or for astronauts in space due to the small size and relative ease of use. Other embodiments contemplate the possibility for bed side analysis for critically ill patients or on site field testing in the case of environmental or chemical and or bio warfare testing since the device and the associated electronics are compact portable and the results are immediate. Still other embodiments contemplate chemical analysis to determine composition of a solution under analysis. This application could be used by chemical industries environmental agencies Departments of Homeland Security and Defense research laboratories and hospitals. Yet other embodiments include DNA analyses and protein and cell lysing.

The separation micro channels and contain a buffer solution which is supplied from a buffer reservoir communicating with the separation micro channels and . Any of several buffer solutions as known in the art are suitable for use with the system . Examples include electrolytes with a pH 2 with particular examples including mixtures of sodium borate and dodecyl sulphate phosphate buffer potassium phosphate sodium phosphate Tris hydroxymethyl aminomethane boric acid EDTA buffer and MES morpholinoethanesulphonic acid LiOH.H0.

The separation micro channels and can be considered to be continuous with one another connecting through the buffer reservoir . Sample is provided to the sample loading micro channel from a sample reservoir communicating therewith. The sample loading micro channel also communicates with a waste reservoir .

Driver circuit electrodes are arranged about the separation micro channels and including a centrally located anode and two cathodes and . The driver circuit electrodes are in wetted contact with the buffer solution. The electrodes and have been illustrated in dashed to indicate that they may be arranged with the detector systems and . As will be discussed below in detail when illustrating example detector systems and the electrodes and may be contained in detector reservoirs provided with each of the systems and .

The anode is located centrally between the separation micro channels and . It has been represented in dashed lines in to indicate that it may be vertically stacked with the buffer reservoir and or a portion of the micro channels and when the capillary electrophoresis system is configured on a micro chip. For example in some micro chip and fabricated board applications the anode might be a thin conductor layer with an example being about 300 nm thick below a substrate or patterned onto the substrate. The reservoir might be arranged directly above the conductor.

In some embodiments the anode may be a thin metal layer that is deposited within and at the base of the reservoir to form at least a portion of a reservoir floor. It has been illustrated as a rectangle in dashed underlying the reservoir in for clarity. The cathodes and may also be configured in this vertically stacked manner underlying or on a substrate in which the micro channels and are etched.

Loading circuit electrodes are arranged about the sample loading micro channel including an anode and a cathode . The anode and cathode have been shown in dashed line similar to the driver anode to indicate that they are within or underlying the reservoirs and respectively. The anode and cathode can be thin conductor layers. Examples include metal layers of about 300 nm thickness on all or a portion of the floor of the reservoirs and respectively and are thereby in contact with the sample solution. These reservoirs can be drilled etched or otherwise formed in a substrate overlaying the anode and cathode conductors or the anode and cathode may form thin metal layers deposited at the base of the reservoirs and . Other configurations are possible with an example being locating the electrodes and in a location removed from the reservoirs and .

It will be appreciated that all of the electrodes of the example system are in contact with fluid sample and or buffer in order to provide good electrical contact. The various electrodes may be sized as desired and according to design parameters of the application. If the voltages to be applied are substantial a suitable size is recommended to avoid the risk of bubble generation from electrolysis.

As will be described in greater detail below during operation the electrodes of the example system are useful to establish an electrical field in either a sample loading mode or driving i.e. detection mode. This is accomplished by applying a negative voltage to the waste reservoir in the sample loading mode to effectively pull fluid from the detectors sample reservoir and buffer reservoir or a positive voltage to the buffer reservoir in the driving i.e. detection mode to effectively push fluid from the buffer reservoir to the detectors sample reservoir and waste reservoir .

The loading circuit is configured to cause analytes from the sample reservoir to migrate into the sample loading micro channel through intersections and where the loading micro channel communicates with the separation micro channels and and finally into the waste reservoir . This migration can be caused through the application of an electric field between the anode and cathode which can cause sample analytes to migrate towards the cathode .

The structure of the sample system including channels and as well as its loading and driver circuits is advantageously configured to provide highly balanced flow as well as discrete symmetric sample plugs. This is achieved at least in part through the configuration of the channels and individual legs that define them.

The sample injection micro channel can be described as being defined by a plurality of legs and . First legs extend between the sample reservoir and the intersections and . Second legs extend between the waste reservoir and the intersections and . Likewise the separation micro channels and may be considered to be defined by portions and and and respectively. Legs and extend between the separation micro channel ends and and the intersections and respectively while legs and extend between the intersections and and the buffer reservoir . Legs and communicate with one another through the buffer reservoir .

In the example system of the electrical resistance of each of the legs and when measured end to end are substantially equal when they contain the same fluid or different fluids having similar electrical resistance properties with an example being when the legs contain one of either the sample or the buffer solutions . Further the resistance of each of these legs may also be substantially equal to the resistance of each of the legs and . Configuring these channels to have equal resistance is useful to achieve well balanced current flows in all micro channels including their individual legs as well as for other purposes.

For example this is useful to produce a substantially symmetrical and concentrated sample plug or good plug originating from intersection and . This results when equal voltage potentials are applied using the driver circuit electrodes and across combinations of legs or and legs or and legs and and of legs and . Therefore substantially equal currents which are analogous to analytes buffer flow flow through the intersections and into legs connected thereto. This results in a highly symmetric sample plug. Since it is the sample plug that migrates towards and is detected by the detector systems and it is desirable to spatially constrain the sample plug as much as possible.

As used herein the term symmetrical plug is intended to be broadly interpreted as referring to a well defined geometric and hence volumetric shape. One example is a generally triangular plug resulting in the vertex on the side being in the middle of the microchannel along its width. If the flow from the sides are minimized while still containing the sample stream the plug would approach a square. This is desirable since if the sample stream freely diffused from the intersections and into the channels and the volume of sample would be difficult to determine. By substantially containing the sample stream in the intersections and and measuring the channel currents which are proportional to flow the volume of a sample plug can be approximated.

If on the other hand no field is applied across combinations of legs or and and or and the sample plug might enter and from intersection and under effects of lateral diffusion and therefore form a less symmetric plug or bad plug having a diminished sample concentration. This can complicate detection and lead to unknown quantities of sample in the plug. Also these effects and can lead to loss of sample to or during the driving mode.

Setting the electrical resistance of the legs and substantially constant in some example systems of the invention provides other benefits as well. As an example this configuration eliminates the need for individual power supplies at each reservoir to achieve a focused injection. The equal channel resistance configuration of some example invention embodiments is able to operate using only a single power supply and still achieve a substantially balanced flow and resultant good plug. A single power supply may be advantageous to simplify the complexity of the circuitry reduce the cost of the system and enhance portability of the device.

It will be appreciated that given a particular contained fluid the electrical resistance of the respective leg generally depends on the geometry of the particular leg and . Although the path of the leg including bends and the like can also be a factor for practical purposes the determining factors can be defined as the length of the leg and the cross sectional area.

Setting the length and cross sectional area of each of the individual legs and substantially equal will be useful to achieve substantially equal electrical resistances over the length of the individual legs. This condition is satisfied by the system illustrated in note that this and other FIGS. may not be drawn precisely to scale each of legs and are intended to be substantially equal in end to end length . This explains the right angled turns that the third legs and follow between the intersections and and the buffer reservoir .

Achieving a balanced flow as well as a symmetric and discrete plug using the example system can be further illustrated through consideration of . illustrates the system in loading mode. Presence of sample in the sample loading micro channel has been indicated with gray shading and presence of the buffer solution in the separation micro channels and with a cross hatch pattern. As shown in operation of the loading circuit anode and cathode generates an electric field which has caused sample to migrate from the sample reservoir towards the waste reservoir and thereby caused the loading micro channel including intersections and to be substantially filled with sample.

Prior to operation of the loading circuit electrodes and micro channel was filled with buffer solution. The concentration of the sample is typically much less than the concentration of the buffer solution with the result that the electrical resistance of the solution does not change significantly with or without the sample since sample concentration is very low in the buffer .

In the intersections and where the sample loading micro channel intersects with and communicates with the separation micro channels and sample is present as has been indicated with black shading. The composition within the intersections and may be a mixture between sample and buffer. The portion of sample that exists in these intersection regions and may be referred to as a plug. 

Note that during operation of the loading circuit electrodes and some migration of analytes within the sample may occur. Accordingly there is a risk that the composition of the sample across the loading micro channel may vary somewhat from sample reservoir to waste reservoir . It has been discovered that operating this circuit for a sufficient time reduces this risk and causes the composition of the sample stream to be substantially uniform. Sufficient times will vary with various design parameters but in some embodiments of the invention time periods of about 90 120 seconds is adequate while in other example systems 4 minutes or more and about 5 minutes or more have been found to be sufficient to provide a substantially uniform composition. Particular time required can be empirically determined and will vary according to sample composition loading voltage used buffer concentration chip geometry and like parameters.

In the example loading operation illustrated by the electric field across channel equals the field across due to the equal channel length and their effective parallel connection between intersection and ground. Likewise the fields established across and are equal. If channels and have equal cross sectional geometry they will produce the same electroosmotic flow. The equal flow from these legs defines and contains the analyte sample flowing from leg at the channel intersection . An identical result occurs at intersection .

Current Iis about Y the magnitude of current Iand I. The current flowing in channel legs and is substantially equal to that flowing in . The magnitude of the current flowing in is the sum of the currents flowing in and . The right hand side of the system channels and right side shares the same relationship. The currents in each channel may be measured as a method to monitor the flows in all channels to ensure balanced flow.

The illustrative schematic of shows the state of the system after the loading circuit has been switched to separation mode where a potential has been applied between the centrally located anode and each of the cathodes and . The same power supply may be used to power this circuit as was used to power the loading circuit. Under influence of these electric fields two sets of analytes and migrate along each of the separation channels and towards the channel ends and and detector systems and .

With regard to the configuration of the electrical circuitry of the example system in the detection mode a positive voltage from V is applied the buffer reservoir electrode by closing S. S is open in this mode allowing current to flow through the ammeter to ground. The detector and detector reservoirs are held at ground potential as in the sample loading mode. Diode D is reverse biased and D is forward biased placing resistors R and R in series with the ammeter circuits.

The resulting electroosmotic flow moves fluid from the channel into the and left hand side channel legs. The analyte sample introduced into the channel intersections and in the loading mode is moved into the channel where separation occurs. The electric field across is determined by the applied voltage V length and cross sectional geometry of and left hand side as well as the values of resistors R and R. The resistors R and R reduce the field in the and channels by limiting the current that can flow in these channel legs and therefore reducing the flow in these channel legs as well.

It will be appreciated that the schematics of are illustrative only. In practice analyte migration during loading and separation may be somewhat more complex than as schematically illustrated in . have been provided to provide what may be a more accurate representation of analyte migration during some sample loading and separation operations of systems of the invention.

As used herein the term symmetrical plug is intended to be broadly interpreted as referring to a well defined geometric and hence volumetric shape. One example is a generally triangular plug resulting in the vertex on the side being in the middle of the intersection along its width. If the flow from the sides and are minimized while still containing the sample stream the plug would approach a square. Containing the sample stream is desirable since if it were allowed to freely diffuse from the intersection into the channels the volume of sample would be difficult to determine. By substantially containing the sample stream in the intersections and and measuring the channel currents which are proportional to flow the volume of a sample plug can be approximated.

Some example systems of the invention may include means for measuring current along any of the channels or with an example being an ammeter. An ammeter may be placed for example in contact with each of the legs and to measure the current therein. The ammeters can be connected to and controlled by the controller .

Tests may be run in differing amounts of time depending on particular system configuration including size of the channels electric fields generated and the like. In many systems of the invention typical tests may take about 3 5 minutes. Between tests all of the channels and reservoirs may be flushed with buffer solution if desired or with other solutions such as a NaOH solution to remove sample residue. Also in some example embodiments it may be useful to pull vacuum from one or more of the reservoirs with examples being just the waste reservoir or from all reservoirs to clear all micro channels of sample buffer and sample buffer mixture. Combinations of sequential flushing and vacuum may be used to ensure that substantially all traces of sample have been removed. One or more rinses with deionized water may also be performed.

Other example structures of the invention can similarly deliver a discrete and symmetric sample plug through other means. For example other capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention contemplate use of one or more valves or one or more pneumatic drivers such as a pump compressor or pressurized source or gravity. While these alternatives may find utility in some embodiments of the invention in the present example illustrated in portability and miniaturization is desired. In such circumstances it has been discovered that the configuration of offers advantages. Addition of pumps valves or the like would add complexity weight and bulk to the example capillary electrophoresis system .

Also while some example capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention contemplate use of pneumatic devices and or valves in some applications use of these elements may not be desirable. These elements with pumps and valves being two examples carry a risk of introducing fluid flow perturbations that can be disadvantageous to testing with examples being disruption to separation and detection.

Although some example systems contemplate use of an AC power supply the typical power supply is a DC power supply and in many portable and miniaturized applications is a low voltage DC power supply. The power supply is a single dual source both positive and negative voltages provided . A dual source power supply is useful to eliminate the need for a separate power supply at each reservoir as well as for other reasons. The power supply may include a DC battery s which might be disposable or rechargeable. By way of particular example in one example system of the invention the power supply included 4 1.5V AA size rechargeable batteries. A continuous operating life time of about 15 hrs was provided and a maximum DC voltage of about 1.2 kV was provided.

The simplified schematic of illustrates two switches and in electrical communication with the power supply that may be placed in a first position to apply two parallel potentials across the driver circuit electrodes and driver circuit and placed in a second position to apply a potential across the loading circuit electrodes loading circuit . No standby position is provided where no circuit is being powered although other example systems of the invention may include a standby configuration. An on off switch may also be provided.

While other example systems of the invention utilize separate power supplies for each of the driver and loading circuits use of a single power supply in the manner shown has been discovered to offer advantages related to low bulk weight and the like as well as eliminating electrical bias effects between power supplies and other electrical components. These advantages are desirable when practicing an invention embodiment where portability is desirable.

The switches and are illustrative only. A variety of switch mechanisms may be used in practice of the invention. For this reason use of the term switch mechanism herein is intended to be broadly interpreted and is not limited to any number of switches or any particular switch structure. On a miniaturized scale for example a switch mechanism such as the switches and will not likely be mechanical but instead may be micro electronics switch elements including but not limited to logic gates transistors integrated circuit components and the like.

It will be appreciated that the simplified schematic of is illustrative only and that other elements may be included. For example the power supply might further supply the detector systems and or . In other embodiments detector systems and utilize one or more dedicated power supplies with one example being a V battery provided for powering both detector systems and .

Also the connections to the controller have been illustrated in with a break in the connection line to indicate that the controller may be located separately from the other components of the capillary electrophoresis system . This may be the case for instance when the system is miniaturized and is contained on a micro chip and the controller is external to the chip with an example being an external computer for interfacing with the chip based system . The controller may include one or more software programs stored in a memory and useful to control the power supply switches and detector systems and and other components. The controller may also have one or more software programs for processing data storing data in a memory and providing graphical format output. A graphical user interface may likewise be provided for operating the controller and the components it is connected to.

In some example capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention that are fabricated on a chip on a miniature or micro scale for example the controller may comprise logic circuitry that is embedded in the chip. Or the controller may comprise a commercially available plug in chip or circuit board that interfaces with the CE system chip.

As best illustrated by the schematic of the sample plug including analytes migrating at different rates continue migrating along the micro channels and towards the micro channel ends and and the detector systems and that are proximate thereto. As the analytes and pass into a detection zone the detector systems and may detect and identify them. A wide variety of different detector systems can be used with capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention. These include for example optical detectors such as ultraviolet UV detectors fluorescence detectors electrochemical detectors and mass spectrometer detectors. The example capillary electrophoresis system utilizes electrochemical detector systems and .

Electrochemical detectors are generally known in the art and a detailed description is therefore not necessary herein and will not be provided for sake of brevity. By way of brief summary example electrochemical detector systems of the invention may include two or three electrodes. With a three electrode detector the electrodes can be referred to as work reference and auxiliary. The work electrode s can comprise a single or multiple electrodes in the detection reservoir. A constant voltage is applied between the work and reference electrodes which causes a constant base current to flow through these two electrodes. When an analyte travels over the work electrode the charge on the analyte causes it to participate in an oxidation reduction reaction with the work electrode. The electrons gained or lost by the work electrode cause an increase or decrease in current which is quantified by a component of controller and indicates the presence of an analyte flowing through the micro channel and quantifies the same.

Having now presented a brief description of principles of operation of the detector systems and more detailed discussion of their configuration can be made. is a schematic of one example configuration for an example detector system or useful with capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention including a detection reservoir . The separation micro channel communicates with the reservoir both of which are filled with a conductive buffer solution. A shelf area delivers fluid from the channel to the reservoir . The shelf area may comprises an etched portion of a substrate. The shelf area and the reservoir are each wider than the channel . The shelf area has been illustrated in gray shade for clarity in .

The example detector systems and include three electrodes a first work electrode a second work electrode and a reference electrode . As will be appreciated by those knowledgeable in the art the detector system may further include an additional auxiliary or counter electrode. One is not shown in however since in the example detector system the functionality of this electrode has been combined with the cathode electrode . Reference electrode and cathode have been shown in dashed to indicate that they may be located below the reservoir in a stacked vertical configuration or may comprise thin conductor layers deposited at the floor of the reservoir . shows the work electrodes and outside of the reservoir in the shelf area . In some invention embodiments these electrodes may be positioned within the reservoir .

As the analytes exit the channel they enter the shelf area . Because the shelf area and the reservoir are wider than the channel a volume of fluid leaving the channel will have a lesser depth in the shelf area and reservoir i.e. the same volume of fluid rises to a greater height in the narrower channel than in the wider shelf area or reservoir . This is useful to confine the analyte ions as low and close to the work electrode which may be thin conductors along or forming a portion of the shelf area or reservoir floor as possible as they go past them for better detection sensitivity. Also if the reservoir is drilled in a substrate it may be desirable to separate this from the channel by some distance to avoid damage of the channel through the drilling process.

A power supply not shown and a controller such as controller of may also be provided. The electrodes and as well as a power supply may be considered to be collectively represented by the detector system and elements shown in illustrated as circles . Also not shown in are electrical connections to the electrodes and a controller such as controller . These and other components may be included in the electrochemical detectors of the invention. These components and their operation however are generally known in the art and description herein is therefore not necessary.

One of the work electrodes or is typically connected to ground through an ammeter circuit with the other functioning as a redundant testing electrode and can be left floating not connected to ground if not used as the working electrode in another potentiostat circuit. shows electrode connected to ground. A low voltage 0.4 V 1.2 V is applied to the circuit to force the solution to a certain potential which is measured by the reference electrode . The reference electrode helps to control and maintain the voltage across and . When a sample analyte comes in contact with the work electrode either oxidation or reduction occurs. The gain or loss of electrons in the sample causes a current in the buffer solution across the electrodes and .

The detector reservoir may use a potentiostat to set the potential of the conductive buffer solution versus the working electrode or . The work electrode is held at ground potential using a transimpedance amplifier Ammeter circuit current to voltage converter . When an analyte exits the micro channel as it migrates due to the electric field exerted by the driver circuit towards the reservoir it encounters the applied potential from the work electrode in a detection zone and undergoes either a reduction oxidation reaction.

When such an oxidation reduction occurs current flowing through this part of the circuit is measured and is the detection signal that can be used to identify the analyte . The solution is pulled negative relative to ground for cases when a positive work electrode potential is desired a positive electrode potential is required for oxidation while a negative electrode potential is required for reduction . The reference electrode is buffered by a high input impedance amplifier and monitors the potential of the buffer solution. This potential indirectly adjusts the error amplifier which provides voltage to the auxiliary electrode . The voltage drop across a series resistor R placed between the error amplifier and auxiliary electrode is measured to determine the current flowing into the electrode. This measured current is used as channel current and indicates magnitude of flow in the separation channel.

As illustrated cathode is downstream from the detector electrodes . Typically the detector circuitry is separate from the remaining capillary electrophoresis system circuitry. The capillary electrophoresis electrical field is established to cause migration of analyte and buffer ions through the micro channels of the system . The detector and voltages establish a very small voltage in the detection zone that is adequate to initiate oxidation reduction when an electroactive analyte enters the detection region.

Use of the term detection zone herein is intended to broadly encompass a region where a detector can detect and or identify an analyte. In the example detector configuration of the detection zone may be considered to be the reservoir or a region proximate thereto. In other example capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention which utilize other detectors the detection zone may differ depending on the detector used. For example in channel detection may be used. An optical detector in another example capillary electrophoresis system of the invention may utilize a transparent or translucent portion of the separation micro channels and to define a detection zone proximate to the micro channel end . Or a reservoir similar to that shown in could be utilized with an optical detector. Likewise other detectors may utilize different detection zones which may be located on or in the separation channel the detector reservoir or regions adjacent thereto.

Choice of detection technology and configuration of the detector zone will vary with application design and like parameters as will the scale of the detection zone and detector components will likewise. It will be understood that as well as other FIGS. discussed herein has not been drawn to scale. By way of illustration of one example configuration only the detector and detection zone illustrated in included the following dimensions 

Although a variety of detectors are suitable for use with capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention it has been discovered that electrochemical detector systems offer useful advantages and benefits related to size weight simplicity of circuitry and the like that are well suited to highly portable and miniaturized applications. For example in some miniaturized applications electrochemical detector systems can offer advantages over absorbance or fluorescence detectors in ease of fabrication simpler electronics portability as well as ease of use.

It will be appreciated that although an example system its components and its operation have been described herein such description is illustrative of only an example embodiment of the invention with many other configurations and components suitable for practice of the invention. For example the channels and have been described as having substantially equal lengths to achieve equal electrical resistance. Other configurations can also be utilized to achieve equal resistances over the legs and .

For example one of the legs and may have a shorter length but a narrower cross section i.e. high resistance per unit length to result in the same electrical resistance as a longer leg with a wider cross section i.e. low resistance per unit length . Such a configuration has been schematically illustrated in the example capillary electrophoresis system of . The system is generally consistent with the system and like element numbers have been used in a 100 series for clarity. In the example system the legs and have a shorter length but a narrower cross section than the longer legs and which have larger cross section dimensions difference in channel diameters is illustrated in through thickness of lines .

The result of these variations is that the resistance over the legs is substantially equal to that of legs and . In this manner the present invention contemplates varying separation micro channel and or loading micro channel length cross section and other dimensions as may be desired to achieve substantially equal electrical resistance.

Many other modifications to the example capillary electrophoresis systems of may also be made. Although only two separation micro channels have been illustrated other embodiments may include three four or any larger number that may be practical. For example other example systems of the invention may include generally rectangular oval circular or other shaped loading micro channels with 4 6 8 or other numbers of separation channels extending therefrom in a hub and spoke configuration. Other shapes of the micro channel and are possible including non linear shapes.

Greater numbers of channels may require larger power supplies to cause current to flow through the additional channels. A highly miniaturized system however is useful to reduce power consumption even with multiple channel configurations. In the example system the driver circuit can provide about 1000 V at about 1 mA. At 250 V typical currents are in the range of 10 micro amps. Accordingly it is well within the operation of the current power supply to provide the necessary CE field for many dozens of micro channels. By way of comparison with larger systems benchtop power supplies are applying voltage across discrete capillaries that are many centimeters long and therefore require many 1000 s of volts to establish fields in the range of 100 200 V cm. But as long as the buffer concentration and cross sectional areas of the discrete capillaries are similar to the microchannels the currents are only in uA range. This is one reason that smaller chip based systems such as the example system may be advantageous for some applications with an example being multiple channel applications where relatively small power supplies are desired.

The number of separation micro channels used in a particular embodiment of the invention in addition to other design variables of capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention will depend at least to some extent on the particular application that embodiment is intended for. For example some capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention will be useful for performing redundant testing on a sample. In such applications two or three separation micro channels may be suitable.

The capillary electrophoresis system of by way of example can be used to achieve through a single test run redundant analysis of a sample. Supply of a single sample to the sample reservoir and operation of the system as described above will result in the testing of identical sample material in each of the separation micro channels and . If the detector systems and are configured to perform identical detection they will provide redundant test results on the sample. Using single channel capillary electrophoresis systems of the prior art would require two separate test runs with the associated risk that some contamination or inconsistency between samples might occur between tests.

In addition to being useful to quickly perform redundant testing example capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention may be used to provide other test results. With reference to the CE system of again made by way of example the two detector systems and could be configured to perform different detection. This may be useful for instance when a single sample may contain two analytes that are difficult to detect with a single detector. When using a single capillary electrophoresis system of the prior art for example it may be difficult or impossible to detect two analytes that had identical or very similar electrophoretic mobilities since they could effectively mask one another. In the example system of the invention however this situation could be effectively addressed by configuring the detector system to detect a first analyte and configuring the detector system to detect a second analyte that might but does not necessarily have the same electrophoretic mobility as the first analyte .

Accordingly it will be appreciated that use of identical detector systems and may be desirable for some testing applications while use of different detector systems and may be desirable for others. Some example capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention may vary between these two applications. In a multiple separation channel system of the invention that has more than two detectors for example some portion of the detectors may be identical and some may be different a capillary electrophoresis system that includes four detector systems may have two type X detectors and two type Y detectors. This will allow for a single sample to be subjected to redundant testing for both the X analyte detectable by type X detector and the Y analyte detectable by type Y detector .

As discussed above a variety of different detectors are suitable for use with the invention. Each different type of detector may be configurable to detect some particular analyte in some manner. Taking electrochemical detectors by way of example one or more of the electrodes of one or more of the detectors may be functionalized to allow it to detect different analytes. Different materials of construction may be used for one or more of the electrodes with Pt Au and C being examples. Different catalyst layers on the electrode s may also be used with examples including precious metal and polymer based catalyst layers. For example the electrodes can be coated with polypyrrole which then each can be activated with an enzyme specific for a certain sugar e.g. glucose oxidase on one electrode fructose oxidase on another etc. . A mixture of sugars could be analyzed whereby each electrode would specifically detect the sugars associated with the attached enzyme.

Another design consideration in fabricating capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention relates to scale. Although multiple capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention will offer useful benefits and advantages on a number of different scales including but not limited to laboratory bench scale the example capillary electrophoresis systems illustrated schematically in may be particularly well suited to a micro scale. For such systems embodiments of the present invention are contemplated to be substantially contained on a micro chip.

The chip may be a substrate typically used in fabrication processes with examples including a silicon based chip a glass based chip a soda lime glass based chip or a polymer based chip with examples including Mylar D polyethyleneterephthalate PET polymethyl methacrylate PMMA poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS polycarbonate PC and polyethyleneterephthalate glycol PETg . The chip may be layered and or fabricated using etching and deposition techniques that are well known in the art and need not be discussed herein.

When an electrophoresis system of the invention such as the system is contained on a chip the micro channels and may comprise substantially rectangular or relative closely approximated shaped channels that have been formed through etching deposition and or other known chip fabrication techniques. The size of the channels may vary according to application and other design parameters.

By way of example only suitable channel cross sectional widths and heights may be of the order of 10 100 microns. Cross sectional areas are generally on the order of about 50 60 micron wide by about 20 micron deep discrete silica capillaries have diameters on the order of 25 50 micron. Channel lengths should generally be longer for lower separation voltages or shorter when large voltages are used. These factors are determined by and directly affect analytical chemistry phenomena such as separation efficiency and resolution. Large voltages and small cross sectional areas can be problematic due to Joule heating which can heat up the channel and denature proteins or DNA if biological samples are being investigated . Also as channel cross sectional areas get smaller interfacing with the outside world becomes more of an issue with examples being sample loading and system flushing cleaning. It is believed that systems of the invention will be useful with micro channel widths of as small as about 5 microns.

Those knowledgeable in the art will appreciate that chemical analysis systems when micro fabricated on a micro scale and placed on a micro chip may be referred to as a lab on a chip LOC as a micro total analysis system micro TAS or using other like terms known in the art. It will be appreciated that some example systems of the invention when practiced on a micro scale may be accurately described using these general terms with an example being that a system of the invention may be a LOC.

In one particular example embodiment of the invention one or more capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention with an example being that schematically illustrated in is placed on one or more chips that are held in a handheld electronics housing. illustrates an exemplary handheld system . The system may include a small handheld housing which might be for example the size of a small handheld calculator small PDA or even a credit card. The example system includes one or more fluid communication ports for injecting sample using a hypodermic syringe for example buffer flushing solution and removing waste. These ports may communicate with for example the sample reservoir buffer reservoir and waste reservoir of . These ports may be configured to cooperate with a micro liter syringe or other suitable transfer device for loading of sample buffer and removal of waste.

The system further includes data entry means such as keys or buttons for entering data and controlling test operation. Other data entry means are contemplated with an example being a touch screen. Communication ports are configured for electronic interface with other devices such as other computers laboratory devices data storage devices and the like. The ports could likewise interface with an external computer that could be used to control tests and capture output data. One or more memories for storing digital data may further be provided in the housing . A screen is provided for displaying data and information useful to perform tests.

One or more chips within the cabinet may include a capillary electrophoresis system circuit as schematically illustrated in any of including all of their elements reservoirs channels detectors power supply s etc. . If the example handheld capillary electrophoresis system contains multiple individual chips each containing a multiple separation micro channel CE system the housing might further describe these chips as an A multi channel capillary electrophoresis system a B multi channel capillary electrophoresis system a C multi channel capillary electrophoresis system etc. Each of the A B and C systems can be equipped with different detectors suitable for identifying different analytes. This would result in a single portable system that was suitable for redundant testing to identify multiple different analytes. A highly portable capillary electrophoresis system will be useful for a variety of applications that put a premium on portability with examples including bedside medical testing field environmental testing homeland defense testing applications and the like.

Other example embodiments of the invention include miniaturized disposable single use capillary electrophoresis systems. One or more systems as illustrated in might be contained on a chip intended for a single use. Following use the system might be disposed. This could be combined with a handheld system such as system illustrated in whereby the handheld cabinet was configured to removably receive chips having a capillary electrophoresis system such as that illustrated in thereon. The cabinet might include the detector systems controller and selected other components for interfacing with micro channels and reservoirs of the system .

In order to further illustrate example embodiments of the invention several example systems of the invention example test runs and example data obtained through methods of the invention and use of systems of the invention shall be provided.

In one example LOC capillary electrophoresis system a soda lime glass based electrophoresis system of the invention generally consistent with that illustrated in was fabricated using traditional microtechnology processes including UV photolithography buffered oxide etch BOE electrode deposition and compression thermal bonding. The example system was characterized with a mixture of dopamine 2 mM and catechol 2 mM in a phosphate buffer 20 mM 6.5 pH . Modeling results yielded migration velocities of 0.6 mm s and 0.42 mm s for dopamine electrokinetic EK mobility 60 000 m V s and catechol EK mobility 42 000 m V s respectively. Experimental results obtained from microchips of the invention exhibiting the same EK mobilities demonstrated identical electropherograms in both separation micro channels and with migration velocities of 0.58 mm s for dopamine and 0.41 mm s for catechol.

Several alternate designs with varying geometries were constructed and analyzed using finite element software. In the computational modeling studies the geometry presented in was most successful in introducing substantially equal volumes of sample into the intersections and and generating suitably low sample plug distortion. The final design resulted in a channel width of about 50 m for all micro channels and and an equidistant length of about 750 m from the intersections and to the sample reservoir waste reservoir buffer reservoir and detector systems and to obtain balanced currents in all the micro channels and .

The channels and may comprise micro channels etched or otherwise formed on a miniature scale in a substrate. In the fabrication of one example system a first substrate is patterned on a first surface with the channels and though etching or other known techniques. Reservoirs and may be substantially cylindrical shaped voids drilled or otherwise formed extending completely through the first substrate and in communication with the channels at desired locations. A separate blank substrate electrode substrate is then deposited and patterned with metal layer to form the electrodes in desired dimensions and locations. This electrode substrate is then bonded vertically with the channel substrate with the electrodes facing the first surface of the channel substrate so that the electrodes and the channel reservoirs face each other. In this manner the channels are sealed about their perimeters the electrodes deposited on the electrode reservoir form a portion of the wetted floor of the reservoirs and the reservoirs are accessible for introducing or removing fluids to the channels.

The final design pattern was created as an L Edit file and two masks were fabricated using a laser pattern generator. The LOC electrophoresis system of the invention was constructed from two unexposed photomask blanks 10 cm 10 cm that were comprised of ultra flat soda lime glass pre coated with a low reflective chrome and positive resist. The micro channels generally consistent with micro channels and of were photolithographically patterned in a top glass substrate and formed using BOE. The reservoirs D 5 mm consistent with sample buffer waste and detector reservoirs and were created using a diamond tipped drill bit mounted in an ultra high precision micromilling machine.

The bottom substrate consisting of both the capillary electrophoresis system and electrochemical detector electrodes was photolithographically patterned etched 300 nm using BOE DC sputtered with Pt and patterned by a lift off process. The electrodes were recessed in order to insure a better glass to glass bond during the thermal compression bonding step T 625 C. for 2.5 hrs. .

Each chip was tested and evaluated for performance. A mixture of dopamine 4 mM and catechol 4 mM in a phosphate buffer solution 20 mM pH 6.5 was used for evaluating chip performance with a sample loading voltage of 250 V. Separation voltages ranged between 240 V and 500 V while the applied ECD reference voltage ranged between 0.3 V and 1 V.

A computer model found the velocity of dopamine to be 0.06 cm s and catechol to be 0.042 cm s for a separation electric field of 100 V cm whereas a dopamine velocity of 0.058 cm s and catechol velocity of 0.041 cm s were obtained in the experimental studies for a separation electric field of 97 V cm. Nearly identical separation and detection of dopamine and catechol were clearly demonstrated in each of two micro chip capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention as shown in the resultant data of .

Thus an example capillary electrophoresis system of the invention provides a novel multiple separation channel system. The example system enables the simultaneous separation and detection of multiple analytes from a single sample. Example systems are useful for the detection of different species of analytes which require different electrode materials. Also example systems provide instrumentation redundancy for analyte detection verification as demonstrated above.

Other embodiments of the invention are directed to methods. Some methods of the invention for example are directed to methods for using a capillary electrophoresis system of the invention. is a flowchart illustrating some steps of one example method for performing capillary electrophoresis. One sample is introduced into a sample loading micro channel. Block . A first electric field is applied across the sample loading micro channel to cause the sample to migrate through the loading micro channel and into a plurality of separation micro channels. Block . A second electric field is applied across the plurality of separation micro channels to cause one or more analytes from the sample to migrate through the separation micro channels. Block . The one or more analytes are then identified in a detection zone proximate to an end of each of the micro channel ends using a detector. Block .

A method of the invention including that illustrated in may be used with any system of the invention including any of the systems described and illustrated herein above. Further steps of methods of the invention therefore may include using use of additional elements of the systems as have been described herein. For example additional steps of other example methods of the invention may include using a single power supply to perform loading and separation applying substantially equal currents across all micro channel legs performing redundant testing by using multiple detectors that are substantially identical to one another etc. as has been discussed herein above. It will be appreciated that discussion made herein above with regard to example systems of the invention including the example system of of or of may likewise be useful to describe methods of the invention.

Still another method of the invention is directed to detecting at least two different analytes from a single sample that have substantially identical electrophoretic mobilities. In addition to the steps described in an additional step of this example method includes using different first and second detectors with one configured to identify one of the two analytes and the second detector configured to identify the second. The detectors may be configured differently by for example functionalizing one or more of the electrodes of each through use of different materials of construction application of a different catalyst layer or the like.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that these example embodiments are provided for illustration of the invention only and should not limit the scope of the invention as claimed. Many modifications substitutions and alternatives will be apparent to those knowledgeable in the art. By way of example and not limitation although example capillary electrophoresis system embodiments have been described as being highly portable miniaturized systems including an LOC other example embodiments may be larger bench scale systems. Capillary electrophoresis systems of the invention are likewise not limited to any particular number of separation channels although examples have been described herein that include two and six. Various features of example embodiments of the invention are set forth in the following claims.

