---

title: System and method for multiple user advertisement accounts
abstract: A multiple user advertisement account system includes an advertisement account database for storing information related to the account. The system is configured to grant multiple users access to the account and allow the users to view or update the information stored in the account database. The system tracks the updates to the information and generates a display of an activity log that contains entries related to the updates received.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09076143&OS=09076143&RS=09076143
owner: A9.com, Inc.
number: 09076143
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060425
---
Advertisements are often provided via a network e.g. displayed on web pages via the internet. As network capabilities have grown during recent years so has the ability of various types of entities to effectively market their services and or products using network resources. Typically the advertisements are managed through the use of a system that may be accessible by advertisers publishers consultants and or other third parties.

Advertisement systems allow users to create advertisement accounts through which the users may in turn create advertisements specify keywords bid on keywords coordinate billing activity oversee the activity related to campaigns and advertisements created under the account monitor various performance parameters etc. Advertisement systems may also allow among other things advertisers to create and manage advertisements to be placed on web pages published by other entities e.g. publishers and conversely allow publishers to offer their web pages to be used as hosts for advertisements created and managed by others e.g. advertisers .

Because of the wide variety of activities that are related to creating and managing advertisement accounts it is often desirable for advertisers and publishers to allow more than one user to access their accounts. For example in an effort to maximize the return on the investment in advertising activity an advertiser may choose to hire an external consultant e.g. a search engine marketer to assist in the design of the advertisement the choice of keywords the bid amounts etc. The advertiser may therefore want the consultant to be able to access the advertisement account. The advertiser may also have various internal personnel that require access to the account including marketing personnel to coordinate activities with the consultant and finance personnel to arrange for bill payment. It may be desirable to provide other internal and or external users with the ability to access the advertisement account.

An ongoing need exists for systems and methods that facilitate providing multiple users access to an account such as an advertising account. Other features and advantages will be made apparent from the present specification. The teachings disclosed extend to those embodiments that fall within the scope of the appended claims regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the above identified needs.

One exemplary embodiment relates to a computer implemented advertisement system for network based advertising. The system may include an accounts database for storing various types of information related to an advertisement account. The system allows users to access the account and the system updates the information stored in the accounts database in response to various inputs that may be received from users. Each user may have the same or substantially the same level access for some or all aspects of the account. The system also generates and displays an activity log that includes entries having information e.g. a user name a time a date etc. relevant to specific user inputs.

It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the present invention are given by way of illustration and not limitation. Many modifications and changes within the scope of the present invention may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such modifications.

Referring to a system according to an exemplary embodiment is shown. System includes one or more advertisers one or more publishers one or more consultants or other third party services e.g. a marketing consultant shown as consultants one or more users and an advertisement system . Advertisers publishers consultants users and advertisement system may each include one or more computers that are connected to each other by way of a network such as the interne.

Users are able to view advertisements made available by a number of advertisers and publishers through network . Advertisers may offer products services or other items for sale by advertising on the displays of publishers or may engage in other types of advertising e.g. political advertising issue based advertising and so on . Consultants may assist advertisers in generating the advertisements to be displayed on for example web pages of publishers . Consultants may also assist publishers in selecting the types of advertisements to be included as a part of the publisher s display. Advertisement system includes an accounts database that may further comprise a number of individual advertisement accounts not shown . Advertisers publishers and consultants generate access and manage accounts database via network . Advertisement system makes advertisements available to users via network . In advertisers publishers and consultants are shown as being distinct entities. However in practice a single entity may act as one or more of an advertiser publisher and or consultant . For example each of these entities may play different roles in different circumstances. Further yet each of advertisers publishers and consultants may comprise distinct sub groups of users that separately access advertisement system . Other users may additionally access advertisement system .

Referring to information that may be stored in connection with accounts in accounts database is shown in greater detail. Accounts database may include campaign information advertising activity reporting information user information billing information and profile information . Other information may also be stored in accounts database . Advertisement system includes account management logic which allows users of the system to access e.g. view change update certain types of the information stored in accounts database and any such activity may be tracked by account management logic for future reference by users of the system .

Campaign information may include information related to one or more advertisement campaigns included in an advertisement account. For example each advertisement campaign may comprise one or more advertisements and information may be stored concerning both the advertisement campaign as a whole e.g. campaign duration campaign budget and concerning individual advertisements within the advertisement campaign e.g. advertisement creatives such as text images hyperlinks etc. . In the case of a keyword bidding system a keyword and keyword bid for placement of the advertisement on a publisher web page may also be stored. Additional information may also be stored such as geographic targeting information e.g. to target users in a specific location such as the United States Canada etc. other bid or financial information related to the account etc. For a publisher campaign information may additionally include for example any advertisement preferences restrictions on the advertisements that may be displayed on the web page e.g. to allow for the exclusion of competitor advertisements offensive material etc. financial information related to the account and so on. Other campaign information may also be stored.

Advertising activity reporting information may include information used in generating reports e.g. reports showing performance data for an overall advertisement account individual advertisement campaigns individual advertisements bidded keywords advertisement creatives etc. The performance data may include for example financial performance cost details keyword performance displays per day week month clicks per display clicks per day week month cost per click cost per transaction other details relevant to the particular cost model being utilized to charge the advertiser for the placement of advertisements etc. For a publisher information may include performance data that allows a publisher to determine for example which web pages generate the most revenue from advertising etc. Additional advertising activity report information may also be stored.

User information may include information related to users of an advertisement account. For example user information may include for each user a user name contact information e.g. e mail address a user password a user unique identification code etc. Status information for each user may also be maintained as a part of user information including information indicating for example whether the user is currently invited active inactive etc. Other information stored for each user may include whether the user has administrative responsibility for the account whether the user has billing responsibility for the account and so on. Additional user information may also be stored.

Billing information may include bill payment history e.g. invoice date payment date payment amount credits charges account balance current billing information e.g. current amount due date payment due etc. billing details e.g. invoice or credit card payment method responsible party or parties payment terms etc. and or other financial information related to the account. Additional billing information may also be stored.

Profile information may include general account information including an account name account number a creation date of the account a contact name for the account a business name of an entity associated with the account address information for the entity associated with the account and or other high level data related to the management and overall activities of the advertisement account. Additional profile information may also be stored.

Referring to various tabs are provided in a display shown as screen display that allow a user to access the information shown in . For example display may include campaigns tab reports tab users tab billing tab and profile tab which allow users to access campaign information activity reporting information user information billing information and profile information respectively in . For example a user may select campaigns tab to access e.g. view modify campaign information . Other tabs may also be provided as a part of advertisement system . Display is generated by advertisement system and may be provided for example as a web page accessible using network . The information shown in display may also be provided using other computer accessible mediums.

In an exemplary embodiment all registered users of a particular advertisement account are granted identical or substantially similar access privileges. Thus for example each user may have the same level of access to view and modify the information that is accessible by way of each of the tabs . In the context of an advertiser for example the users that may be able to access information through tabs may include both internal users e.g. users in accounting department and external users e.g. users at marketing consultant firms . In another exemplary embodiment the level of access provided to each user may also be configureable and certain types of users may be configurably restricted from accessing certain types of information. For example in an exemplary embodiment certain billing information such as credit card numbers bank account numbers and other payment instruction details are maintained by advertisement system but may be designated as not viewable or otherwise accessible by anyone except the user with billing responsibility.

In tab is shown as being selected. Tab includes information relating to the users of an advertisement account. The information may be compiled in for example a list such as user list . User list includes information for each user such as a user name a user email a user status a billing indicator and an administrator indicator . The user name and email address are the name and email address of the specific user as provided when the user either created or joined the account as discussed further with respect to . The status indicates the status of the particular user. For example current users may be given a status of Active while invited users that have not yet been added may be given a status of Invited. Billing indicator and administrator indicator indicate whether the user currently has billing or administrative responsibilities for the account respectively. Other information may also be provided as a part of user list and user list may be modified to suit a particular advertisement account. For example upon removing a user from an account user list may display the status of the user as Removed. Alternatively the user may be removed from user list entirely.

Advertisement system allows users to among other things invite additional users remove current users transfer administrative responsibilities and transfer billing responsibilities. Referring further to in an exemplary embodiment display includes user choices that users may select e.g. by highlighting a user name and or clicking on the appropriate choice using a mouse including an invite user button a remove user button a transfer billing button and a transfer administrator button . In an exemplary embodiment only the creator of an account may invite users remove users or transfer administrative or billing responsibilities. In another exemplary embodiment in addition to the creator of the account users that have been given administrative or billing responsibilities by the creator of the account may in turn grant those responsibilities to a third or subsequent user. In another exemplary embodiment billing responsibility may only be transferred by the user accepting the billing responsibility e.g. so as to ensure that the user that is receiving billing responsibility is willing able to accept responsibility. Accordingly billing responsibility and or administrative responsibility may be transferred responsive to an input from the user that is giving up responsibility from the user that is receiving responsibility and or from another user depending on the manner in which advertisement system is configured.

Upon a user selecting invite user button advertisement system initiates the process of inviting a new user to an account discussed in further detail below with respect to . In order to remove a user or transfer administrative or billing responsibilities a user may highlight the desired user and then select the appropriate button i.e. remove user button transfer billing button or transfer administrator button . For example to remove user 2 a user may highlight user 2 in user list and then click on the remove user button . Advertisement system then removes user 2 as a user of the account and from user list or alternatively changes the status of user 2 in user list to Removed . Similarly to grant administrative responsibilities to user 3 user 1 being the owner e.g. creator of the account may highlight user 3 in user list and click the transfer administrator button .

Further referring to advertisement system also allows users to view an activity log reflecting actions taken by users of the account. A display for advertisement system may include an activity log . Activity log is a part of advertisement system and includes user information relating to inputs received or actions taken by users of the account. Activity log may include a date record a time record an action record a campaign record and a user record . Date record and time record represent the date and time the action was taken. Action record includes a description of the action taken. Campaign record indicates the related campaign s if any. User record indicates the account user that performed the action. Other information i.e. records may be provided as a part of activity log .

In an exemplary embodiment activity log may be customized i.e. configured by a user of advertisement system such that the types of entries recorded in activity log may be specified by a user. For example activity log may include only such activities as creating an account campaign e.g. entries and inviting adding removing a user e.g. entries and and changing billing information e.g. entries . Other types of activities may additionally be included in activity log as desired. Further advertisement system may be configured to automatically remove entries from activity log after a certain period of time e.g. days weeks months years etc. . Activity log may also be configured to display differing levels of details of account information. For example activity log may be configured to display information on an account level basis a campaign level basis advertisement level basis and so on and the information at the various levels may be aggregated among different accounts campaigns etc.

In another exemplary embodiment advertisement system allows a user to toggle between multiple separate advertisement accounts with different sets of registered users. For example a user such as a marketing consultant with access to multiple accounts for different advertisers may log on to various advertisement accounts and toggle between accounts by accessing a listing of the various advertisement accounts. The user may direct advertisement system to display information related to a specific account e.g. information such as that shown in display by for example highlighting the name of the account or clicking on an icon of the account. Other ways of indicating to advertisement system which account a user wishes to view may also be used.

Referring now to a flowchart showing the steps of generating entries stored in activity log is shown. At step advertisement system receives an input from an account user e.g. an input from a user directing advertisement system to invite an additional user to an account .

At step the account information stored in accounts database is updated to reflect the user input received at step . For example upon inviting a new user to the account advertisement system may store among other information a user name a time a date etc. for the invited user.

At step advertisement system determines whether the input received has been defined as an action to be entered in activity log . If the input was not previously defined as an input to be entered in activity log advertisement system does not make an entry in activity log for the input but retains the data as a part of user information i.e. all updates changes to the information stored in accounts database are recorded .

At step if the input was previously defined as an input to be entered in activity log advertisement system updates activity log with an entry associated with the input i.e. the user action taken the entry including the date and time the action was taken a description of the action the relevant campaign if any and the user taking the action. An exemplary embodiment of such an activity log entry is entry illustrated in .

Activity log is continuously updated using the steps shown in as advertisement system receives inputs from users related to the account. Thus the content of the activity log as viewed by a user at a certain time may differ from the content of the activity log as viewed by that or a different user at a prior or later point in time i.e. activity log may be dynamically generated and displayed to individual users of the account . In an exemplary embodiment advertisement system allows all active users of the account to view the information displayed as a part of activity log . For example activity log as shown in may be viewed by user 1 and user 2 i.e. the Active account users of the account shown in user list .

Referring to a flowchart according to an exemplary embodiment shows the process of inviting a new user to an account and updating activity log and user list accordingly. At step advertisement system generates an invitation. In an exemplary embodiment advertisement system initiates the invitation process in response to a user input e.g. a user clicking on a designated button on a web page such as button Invite User shown in . In an alternative embodiment other ways of initiating the invitation process such as typing in a keyword or phrase may be used at step . Advertisement system receives the user input and then generates an invitation shown in as electronic invitation . Referring to in an exemplary embodiment advertisement system generates invitation in response to a user entering the information shown in . The information entered may include among other information a name of the person to be invited i.e. the invitee an email address of the invitee and a personalized message to be included in electronic invitation .

At step advertisement system electronically mails invitation to the invitee. As shown in invitation may be sent by advertisement system to the invitee e.g. invitee in response to a user choosing button Send Invitation . An account name shown as Account 1 in identifies the name of the account to which the invitee is being invited. Additionally invitation includes an identification or invitation code used by the invitee and advertisement system to allow a user to join the existing account as illustrated further with respect to . In another exemplary embodiment invitation includes a hyperlink not shown enabling the invitee to link to the log in or access web page for an advertisement account.

At step assuming for purposes of illustration that inviting a user has been defined as an input to be entered in activity log advertisement system updates activity log to reflect the invitation having been sent to the invitee. An exemplary embodiment of such an entry is shown in as entry . User list is also updated to reflect the invitee having been invited to join the account. Entry shown in is an exemplary embodiment of how user list may be updated to reflect inviting a new user to the account.

At step advertisement system receives a reply from the invitee. A reply may be generated through the use of a display such as display e.g. a web page shown in . As discussed with respect to electronic invitation may include a link to display allowing an invitee to go directly to display from invitation . Advertisement system and display may allow a person to create a new account by using button Create under the create sub tab and entering an account name into text box and also allow an invitee to join an existing account. In order to join an existing account an invitee may enter invitation code into text box under the join sub tab shown in and then click on button Join . Advertisement system then verifies that identification code is valid e.g. by verifying that the identification or invitation code entered into text box matches the invitation code provided to the invitee via invitation . If the identification code is invalid for any reason advertisement system denies the invitee access to the account.

In an alternative embodiment advertisement system further requires an invitee to enter a user name and email address either prior to or after entering invitation code . Advertisement system then verifies that the email address entered by the invitee matches the email address to which the invitation was sent. If the two email addresses do not match advertisement system may require further information from the invitee or advertisement system may deny the invitee access to the account. In another exemplary embodiment if the two email addresses do not match advertisement system may send a verification email to the user that initiated the invitation process for the invitee e.g. to permit the user to indicate whether the alternative email address of the invitee is recognized and thereby whether access should be granted despite the different email address.

At step upon properly verifying that the invitation code and or email address provided by the invitee are valid advertisement system updates activity log to reflect that a new user has been added to the account. An exemplary embodiment of such an entry is shown as entry shown in . If the user has been denied access no entry will be made in activity log . User list is also updated accordingly to reflect whether the invitee is being added e.g. by changing the status to Active or the invitee has been denied access to the account e.g. by removing the invitee from user list . In another exemplary embodiment the status of an invitee who has been denied access may remain as Invited or alternatively be changed to Inactive. 

Here and throughout terms such as user advertiser publisher visitor and so forth are to be understood in the broadest possible sense. Herein the term user is used generically to refer to advertisers publishers and visitors. By way of illustration and not of limitation an advertiser may be an individual or a commercial government or non profit entity may be directly responsible for placing an advertisement announcement message or the like or may be a broker reseller or intermediary for another s advertisements announcements messages or the like may be advertising for its own products and services or may be advertising on behalf of another may be represented by a human agent or by a web service software agent or other programmatic construct etc. Likewise a publisher is not restricted to persons or entities who purport to be in the on line publishing business or any other kind of publishing business nor to entities who have complete or even primary control over the content of particular websites but rather is used in a more general sense and includes for example any person or entity responsible directly or indirectly for putting content on the Internet whether by hosting or sponsoring websites posting pages frames graphics applets blogs audiovisual content etc. on their own or others websites providing web services that can source content for websites or in any other manner. Still further a visitor may be an individual who visits and views or otherwise perceives the content of a website and pages therein via a web browser or other client software program running on a personal computer wireless handheld device or the like but may also be for example a corporate or other entity whose servers access published web content and advertisements by invoking web services through appropriate application programming interfaces APIs a visitor may or may not be the intended or actual end consumer of a product or service that is the subject of an advertisement etc. In sum persons of skill in the art will appreciate that a wide variety of actors more than can be conveniently set forth here can play the roles of advertiser publisher and visitor for purposes of the present invention. It will be further appreciated that the self same person or entity may be both publisher and advertiser or both publisher and visitor or both advertiser and visitor or even all three depending on the context. In a similar vein and as will be apparent from the foregoing terms such as web page website and so forth are used to give specific illustrative examples of settings in which on line content and advertisements can be presented to and perceived by users. Such examples are not intended to be limiting and persons of skill in the art will appreciate that many other such settings now known or yet to be developed may be suitable to the practice of the present invention in specific embodiments.

It should be noted that although flowcharts may be provided herein to show a specific order of method steps it is understood that the order of these steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the invention. Likewise software and web implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps. It should also be noted that the word component as used herein and in the claims is intended to encompass implementations using one or more lines of software code and or hardware implementations and or equipment for receiving manual inputs. It is to be understood that any method steps as recited herein e.g. in the claims may be performed by a configuration utility e.g. Java based executed by a computing device based on input by a user. Of course according to various alternative embodiments any suitable configuration utility application system computing device etc. may be used to execute implement and or perform method steps as recited in this disclosure including the claims .

The invention is described above with reference to drawings. These drawings illustrate certain details of specific embodiments that implement the systems and methods and programs of the present invention. However describing the invention with drawings should not be construed as imposing on the invention any limitations associated with features shown in the drawings. The present invention contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing its operations. The embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system.

As noted above embodiments within the scope of the present invention include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such a connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Embodiments of the invention are described in the general context of method steps which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including machine executable instructions such as program code for example in the form of program modules executed by machines in networked environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Machine executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated machine readable media provide nonvolatile storage of machine executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principals of the invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

