---

title: MEMS resettable timer
abstract: A MEMS resettable timer including a primary inertial element and at least one secondary inertial element, which includes a camming surface. When the secondary inertial element moves, its camming surface engages the camming surface of a locking element to remove it from the notch of a subsequent inertial element. When the primary inertial element is released for movement it activates a resetting arrangement to place the secondary inertial element back to the initial position and prevent further movement of the primary inertial element. The cycle is repeatable to commence some predetermined action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07398734&OS=07398734&RS=07398734
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07398734
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060309
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalties therefore.

Various scenarios exist where it is desirable to delay the initiation of an event until some time after an initial shock or acceleration. By way of example in order to prevent premature detonation many munition rounds such as artillery shells go through a multi stage arming sequence after being fired. It is required that the sequence commence only after the shell has been fired and for this purpose a delay after firing is imposed in the procedure.

One way of providing the necessary delay is by the use of an accelerometer. One problem with the accelerometer however is that it requires not only a power supply but a signal processor as well. Such arrangement needs a significant volume to package the necessary components which is impractical for various situations including use in a munition round.

Existing mechanical timers can also provide the necessary delay however these timers include extensive gearing escapements and other mechanical parts. These numerous components are not only costly but are relatively large in size and require time consuming assembly.

It is an aspect of the present invention to provide an inexpensive miniature inertial delay device which can provide a relatively long delay time and can be fabricated utilizing MEMS micro electromechanical systems techniques.

An aspect of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a resettable timer which includes a primary inertial element and a plurality of secondary inertial elements at an initial position. A locking arrangement prevents movement of all but a first of the inertial elements. Movement of the first inertial element due to an acceleration of the timer is operable to commence an unlocking of the locking arrangement to allow sequential movement of the other inertial elements. A reset arrangement is also provided where movement of the primary inertial element activates the reset arrangement to place the secondary inertial elements back to their initial position in a first cycle and prevents further movement of the primary inertial element. The cycle repeats itself at least one more time with continued acceleration until the primary inertial element is no longer restrained from movement. Yet another aspect of an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is an arrangement which uses only a single secondary inertial element.

In the drawings which are not necessarily to scale like or corresponding parts are denoted by like or corresponding reference numerals.

Timer includes a primary inertial element and at least one secondary inertial element of a mass less than a mass of the primary inertial element . In the embodiment of by way of example three such secondary inertial elements and are illustrated and the mass of primary inertial element is greater than the total mass of all the secondary inertial elements and . The inertial elements to as well as other moveable components to be described are connected to a series of supports by respective springs as illustrated. In an exemplary embodiment the inertial elements to are each substantially rectangular shaped. The rectangular shape includes a long axis and a perpendicularly oriented shorter axis. The longer axis of each inertial element to is substantially parallel to the longer axis of each of the other inertial elements to . In an exemplary embodiment as depicted in at least two of the inertial elements are situated intermediate the inertial element and the primary inertial element .

Primary inertial element includes a plurality of sequentially arranged locking notches and as well as a plurality of sequentially arranged camming surfaces and . In an exemplary embodiment all of the camming surfaces described herein are linear and sloped though other shapes may be used for the camming surfaces. As will be described unrestrained movement of primary inertial element in the direction of arrow will cause the desired activation of a device. For example if the timer is used as part of a larger MEMS device rod attached to the primary inertial element may activate another portion of the overall larger MEMS device. Activation of a device may also be accomplished electrically. To this end the arrangement may include an electrical circuit shown dotted and having contacts which will cause closure of the electric circuit when the primary inertial element which is electrically conducting touches contacts .

The first secondary inertial element includes a locking notch on one side thereof and a camming surface on an opposite side. Similarly the second and third secondary inertial elements and include a respective locking notch and camming surface for inertial element and locking notch and camming surface for inertial element .

The locking arrangement includes a series of locking elements and each including a respective camming surface and . Locking element is intermediate the primary inertial element and inertial element . Locking elements are respectively located intermediate inertial elements and . Each of locking element of the series of locking elements and is intermediate Locking element seats in locking notch of inertial element and prevents it from moving in response to acceleration. Locking element seats in locking notch of inertial element and prevents it from moving while locking element seats in locking notch of primary inertial element to keep it from moving. In this regard it is seen that locking notch of inertial element is unused and accordingly it may be omitted from this first inertial element. The timer arrangement additionally includes a reset bar including projections and and camming surface for as will be seen resetting inertial elements and back to their initial position. A reset activator member having first and second camming surfaces and is utilized to move the reset bar for its resetting function. Accordingly the inertial elements to are substantially perpendicular to the reset bar as well as the reset activator member .

To operate as an inertial delay device inertial elements to and springs must be free to move and therefore must be free of any underlying silicon dioxide insulating layer . One way to accomplish the removal of the underlying insulating layer is by applying an etchant such as hydrofluoric acid or a similar material which will dissolve the silicon dioxide.

The etchant will in a relatively short period of time dissolve the insulation beneath the springs since they are of small width thus freeing them for movement. In order to shorten the time for dissolving the silicon dioxide under inertial elements and as well as under locking elements and reset bar and reset activator member they are provided with a series of apertures which extend from the top surface down to the insulating layer thereby allowing the etchant direct access to the undersurface of these members. Although some of the etchant dissolves the insulation under the supports the process of freeing the inertial elements and locking elements and reset bar reset activator member and springs is completed before the supports are completely freed so that they remain immovable. Accordingly the reset bar and reset activation member are substantially adjacent inertial elements and as well as locking elements and .

The operation of timer will now be described with reference to where for simplicity and clarity the supports springs and apertures have not been illustrated. In in an exemplary embodiment in response to an initial shock or acceleration in the direction of arrow the first inertial element since it is not being restrained that is moveable or unlocked will move down as viewed in in the direction of arrow . In a different exemplary embodiment the first inertial element as depicted in may initially be restrained and unable to move that is locked and an electrical activation device not shown may be used to unlock the first inertial element in order to initiate and activate the first inertial element .

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention where the first inertial element is not restrained as indicated above if the timer is utilized in a munition round such acceleration may be due to forward acceleration or rotational acceleration depending on how the timer is oriented within the round. This downward movement causes camming surface of inertial element to engage camming surface of locking element to thereby pull locking element out of its locking engagement with locking notch of inertial element .

As illustrated in the removal of locking element from locking notch allows inertial element to move down. This movement engages camming surface of inertial element with camming surface of locking element thereby withdrawing it from locking notch of inertial element allowing inertial element to move down.

When inertial element moves down as illustrated in its camming surface engages camming surface of the last locking element to withdraw it from locking notch of primary inertial element . Accordingly in an exemplary embodiment the inertial element is substantially adjacent to the inertial element .

With locking element withdrawn primary inertial element starts to move down. In so doing camming surface of primary inertial element engages camming surface of reset activation member causing it to move to the right. As a result camming surface engages camming surface of reset bar pushing it up so that projections and push against the bottom of respective inertial elements and thus placing them in their initial position. This configuration is depicted in . This first cycle results not only in a resetting of the inertial elements and but as shown in places locking element within the second locking notch of primary inertial element as well as positioning reset activation member against the second camming surface of primary inertial element . Therefore the inertial elements and that is the smaller masses reset the primary inertial element that is the larger mass.

Continued acceleration again causes inertial element to move down where the cycle is repeated ending with the configuration of . That is locking element of inertial element is positioned within the last locking notch of primary inertial element and camming surface of reset activation member is positioned against the last camming surface of primary inertial element .

After the next cycle locking element is withdrawn from the last locking notch of primary inertial element allowing primary inertial element to travel its full extent without impediment as seen in to thereby initiate a predetermined event. To vary the time delay imposed by the timer more or fewer locking notches and camming surfaces may be provided in primary inertial element and more or fewer secondary inertial elements may be provided. Generally time delays that are possible range from about 0.1 second or less to 10 seconds or more.

In another exemplary embodiment the above embodiment may be used except one secondary inertial element may be used instead of a plurality of inertial elements and . In this embodiment the sole secondary inertial element is unrestrained that is free to move for example in response to an initial shock or acceleration as indicated in . Accordingly activation of the secondary inertial element causes activation of the primary inertial element as discussed above.

Having thus shown and described what is at present considered to be exemplary embodiments of the present invention it should be noted that the same has been made by way of illustration and not limitation. Accordingly all modifications alterations and changes coming within the spirit and scope of the present invention are herein meant to be included.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

